Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19042
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2130-IN/LOAN 3195-IN)
March 10, 1999
Education Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Fiscal Year            Exchange Rate           Comment
(Indian rupee-Rs/US$)
1989-90                16.66             Official Rate
1990-91                17.95                 ditto
1991-92                24.52                 ditto
1992-93                36.41                 ditto
1993-94                31.36              Unified Rate
1994-95                31.40                 ditto
1995-96                33.46                 ditto
1996-97                34.45                 ditto
1997-98                37.13                 ditto
1998-99                42.03                 ditto
Note: A dual exchange rate system was created in March 1992 with a free market rate for about 60% of foreign exchange transactions at
a rate of US$1.00 = Rs. 30.65. The exchange rate was reunified at the beginning of March 1993 at the free market rate.
FISCAL YEAR
April I to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AICTE                -            All India Council for Technical Education
BTE                  -            Bureau of Technical education
COFMOW               -            Central Organization for Modernization of Workshops
DEA                  -            Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance
DGS&D                -            Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals
DOE                  -            Department of Education, Ministry of Human Resources Development
DTE                  -            Directorate of Technical Education
EDCIL                -            Education Consultants India Limited
GOI                  -            Government of India
IBRD                 -            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                  -            International Development Association
IRG                  -            Internal Revenue Generation
LRDC                 -            Learning Resources Development Centre
MHRD                 -            Ministry of Human Resource Development
MP                   -            Madhya Pradesh
MPECS                -            Multi-Point Entry and Credit System
NCB/LCB              -            National/Local Competitive Bidding
NPD                  -            National Project Director
NPE                  -            National Policy on Education 1986
NPIU                 -            National Project Implementation Unit
SC                   -            Scheduled Caste
SPIU                 -            State Project Implementation Unit
ST                   -            Scheduled Tribe
TTTI                 -            Technical Teachers Training Institute
UP                   -            Uttar Pradesh
Vice President            :       Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director          :       Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager                    Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader               :       Edward H. Heneveld
Task Leader               :       Shashi Kant Shrivastava



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2130-IN/Ln. 3195-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY .......................................................................i
PART  I: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ...................................................                                I
A. Project Objectives ......................................................................I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .                   .....................................................................2
C. Implementation Record ......................................................................5
D. Project Sustainability ......................................................................8
E. Bank Performance ......................................................................8
F. Borrower Performance ......................................................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome .....................................................................                          9
H. Future Operations .....................................................................                              9
I. Key Lessons Learned .....................................................................                            10
PART 2: STATISTICAL  TABLES .....................................................................                               11
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1    Summary of Assessments .11
Table 2    Related Bank Loans/Credits .12
Table 3   Project Timetable .13
Table 4              Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .14
Table 5              Key Indicators for Project Implementation .15
Table 6              Key Indicators for Project Operation .18
Table 7              Major Studies Included in Project .21
Table 8A  Project Costs .23
Table 8B  Project Financing .23
Table 9    Economic Costs and Benefits .24
Table 10   Status of Legal Covenants .24
Table 11             Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .25
Table 12   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .26
Table 13   Bank Resources: Missions .27
ANNEXES
Annex A   Mission's Aide Memoire .29
Annex B              Borrower's Contribution
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only
in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2130 IN/ Ln. 3195 IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report for the First Technician Education Project in
India for which IDA Credit 2130-IN in the amount of SDR 178.2 million (US$235.0 million
equivalent) and IBRD Loan 3195-IN in the amount of US$25.0 million was approved on May 1,
1990 and made effective on December 5, 1990. Although approved originally as an IDA/IBRD
blended project, the IBRD loan component was cancelled on December 5, 1991 at the Borrower's
request. At the same time, SDR 18.4 million from the Credit amount were also cancelled as savings
anticipated due to significant devaluation of the local currency.
The Credit/Loan closed on September 30, 1998, instead of the original closing date of June
30, 1998. There was one extension of three months in the closing date to allow supply and
installation of equipment ordered whose delivery has been delayed. Last disbursement took place on
March 8, 1999, with full utilization of the Credit.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. S. K. Shrivastava (Task Team Leader), Y. Saran
(Consultant) and G. S. Chandran (Consultant) of Education Sector (SASED) of South Asia Region.
The report was reviewed by Messrs. Heneveld (India Education Team Leader), Harbison (Sector
Manager, SASED), Skolnik (Sector Manager, SASPH), Marke (LOAAS), Mam Chand
(PDAT/SACIF), Ms. Imamura (LEGSA), peer reviewer Mr. Jamil Salmi, (Sector Leader, LCC3C),
and Ms. Chassard (Country Anchor, India). The draft was also seen by former task leaders/managers
Messrs. Cambridge and Odeh. The borrower provided comments and conducted a separate
evaluation of the project that is included, in an unedited form, in Annex B.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during IDA's final supervision-cum-ICR mission, August
28-September 22, 1998. A final short mission was conducted during November 1998. It is based on
the materials in the project files, missions observations from the field trips, discussions with
teachers, students and employers, and discussions with various institutions including the National
Project Implementation Unit (NPIU), State Project Implementation Units (SPIUs), Technical
Teachers Training Institutes (TTTIs), and officials of the Government of India and States.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2130 IN/Ln. 3195 IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Introduction: This was the third project in the sector in India. The first was a credit of
US$12.0 million equivalent approved in 1973 to assist agriculture education. The second project,
with the Bank Group support of US$280 million approved in 1989, supported the National
Vocational Training System. The Technician Education Project became effective on December 5,
1990 and closed on September 30, 1998. To date, the Bank has funded five projects in the tertiary
education sector in India.
2.    Project Objectives: The project supported specific policy reform according to new National
Policy on Education which was formulated in 1986 (NPE-86) and resulted in a Ten Year Investnfent
Program. Its main objective was to make education in polytechnics (Government and government-
aided) more responsive to the expansion of science and technology and the needs of the industry and
the rural sector through the introduction of new technology and training approaches in the project
States. More specifically, the objectives were to: (a) expand the capacity of the polytechnic
education system; (b) improve the quality of polytechnic programs; and (c) enhance the efficiency of
management and operation of the polytechnic system.
3.    The Project Objectives were relevant, clearly defined, and their direct linkage to the national
policies (NPE-86 and the Ten-Year Investment Program) was very strong. Development of specific
objectives and implementation strategies by the Directorates of Technical Education, with assistance
from the four Technical Teachers Training Institutes (TTTIs), contributed to the ownership of the
project in most States. Within the overall scope of its main objectives, the project provided enough
flexibility to States to make necessary changes in various components over the seven and a half-year
implementation period.
4.    Implementation Experience and Results: Overall, the Project maintained steady progress
in the achievement of physical targets with accelerated progress during the last 2-3 years. The
project objectives of quality improvement and strengthening of management capacity were achieved
and the physical targets were even exceeded by some States. With the exception of recruitment of
additional staff in the TTTIs, all covenants have been complied with.
5.    On overcoming the initial hurdles in the setting up and staffing of Project Implementation
Units at the Center and in the States and adoption of working procedures, project implementation
showed significant improvement. The project was completed on September 30, 1998, with three
months extension of the original closing date (June 30, 1998). This extension was permitted for
delivery of equipment already ordered. This timely completion with minor delay was due to the
competent management of the State implementing agencies, the NPIU, and the NPD. The allocation



ii
of Credit proceeds to States and for the various components followed the criteria agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.
6.    The total project cost at appraisal was estimated as US$382.7 million (Rs. 8327.22 million)
of which IDA was to finance SDR 178.2 million (US$235 million equivalent) and IBRD US$25
million with GOI financing the remaining amount Although approved originally as an IDA/IBRD
blended project, the IBRD loan component was cancelled on December 5, 1991 at the Borrower's
request. At the same time, SDR 18.4 million from the Credit amount were also cancelled as savings
anticipated due to significant devaluation of the local currency. At the close of the project, the
Credit was fully utilized. The final project cost was Rs. 9991.12 million (about US$270 million
equivalent). The additional cost, in rupee terms, was due to inclusion of the State of Goa in 1993
and revision of some project targets during implementation.
7.    This was a very complex multi-State project covering 279 polytechnics in nine States, all at
different stages of development.  The Review Reports show impressive achievements over
implementation period in all the 19 sub-components (Table 5 provides details of achievements
against targets).  Some areas where the implementation exceeded the target or resulted in
unanticipated gains include: (a) women's enrollment increased from pre-project average of 11% to
about 30 % against a target of 15.6 % due to major policy support by most States through reservation
of seats in enrollment and employment of women, scholarships and awareness campaign; (b) a new
policy framework, with active participation from the employers, is being finalized. This goes much
beyond the anticipated scope of work of the Industry-Institute Interaction Centers/Cells and is likely
to establish a partnership with the industry in the management and financing of polytechnics; (c)
with supporting policies and incentives introduced in many States, Internal Revenue Generation
(IRG) is picking up. In spite of some States still lagging behind, cumulative IRG of Rs. 310 million
has been reported and has the potential of further substantial growth; (d) TTTIs and the vast pool of
professionals available in India were properly utilized by the NPD in strategy formulation and
evaluation studies. These included samnple tracer studies, evaluation of staff development courses,
regular formative evaluation of project outcomes, preparation of strategy papers, and series of
seminars for senior project staff in States. Such interventions provided valuable feedback for
corrective actions that would enhance the sustainability of the project. Some of these are now
adopted by a few States in their management strategy.
8.    Barring some shortcomings in Bihar, all States reached or exceeded their physical targets.
Gujarat took lead in many new initiatives, including introduction of flexibility and continuing
education/ distance education programs. Rajasthan followed by Madhya Pradesh introduced
flexibility in most polytechnics. They also recorded major success in increase in enrollment of
women in technician education reaching 30% and 45%, respectively. Karnataka followed by Uttar
Pradesh established two well-conceived polytechnics for the Handicapped to act as resource
institutions for training and research in future. Orissa took lead in introducing a large number of
high-tech post diploma courses. Goa, having joined late and losing another two years in start-up also
reached its target just in time. Kerala maintained its steady pace of development for most duration
of the project. The project in Bihar suffered due to very slow pace of release of funds to the project
and frequent changes in State Secretaries



iii
In summary the achievement of project objectives is as follows: (a) The Sectoral Policy objectives
were achieved with major focus on flexible programs, autonomy to polytechnics, and closer
interaction with industry to ensure demand driven programs; (b) The Financial objectives of Internal
Revenue Generation were achieved through multiple means - enhancement of fees, consultancy to
industry, and through full cost recovery in continuing education programs; (c) The Institutional
Development objectives were fully achieved with the establishment of all new polytechnics
proposed, introduction of many new technology programs at diploma and post-diploma level,
strengthening of State Directorates, establishment of all curriculum development centers, staff
development centers/cells, learning resource development centers and utilization cells, Industry-
institute- interaction centers, and maintenance centers and cells proposed. All these new programs
and units are having staff trained under the project; (d) The Physical objectives have been achieved
and even exceeded in some States along with modernization of equipment (Table 5); (e) The Gender
concerns have been adequately addressed and the achievements exceeded targets; (f) A good
beginning has been made in providing technical education to the handicapped through special
methods of teaching and development of learning resources - this is now leading to a national
initiative in integrating the handicapped in the main stream of technician education.
9.    Some key factors that affected project achievements were: (a) the project being in the State
sector and affecting the entire polytechnic education system in nine project States, there was full
ownership of the project at the State level and most State Secretaries and Directors of Technical
Education provided the required leadership to ensure success of the project to make a difference to
the polytechnic education as a whole; (b) with frequent joint meetings/ reviews of all States with
detailed reporting by SPIUs/NPIU, publication of news letters by many States, NPIU and TTTIs and
periodic State/regional/national level workshops, there was considerable exchange of knowledge
between States Directorates and between polytechnic principals within a State; there was also a
sense of competition between the project States; (c) the Project received full policy support at the
National level through the Education Secretary, the National Steering Committee, and the All India
Board of Technician Education of the AICTE; (d) the services of professionals conversant with the
technician education system at the Central, State and TTTI levels, were well utilized in project
implementation. The National Project Director also being a Joint Educational Advisor (Tech.),
ensured coordination between the sectoral policies and implementation; (e) significant delays in
creation of posts, staff recruitment and training affected the quality of teaching adversely for 3-4
years in some States. Frequent changes in project staff in these States also contributed to variations
in project management; (f) the inability of the identified Central agency (DGS&D and subsequently
COFMOW) to cope up with large-scale purchases of diverse equipment, caused delays in
procurement. Reliance on more state-level procurement could have resulted in timely procurement,
installation and utilization of equipment for training. Similarly, the slow implementation of works
by Government Departments delayed the benefits of the project to students by 2-3 years.
10.   The Bank provided effective project preparation assistance and supervision to a complex and
ambitious project. There was a free and frank collegiate relationship between the Bank team and the
National team from the project preparation phase to the project closing. Overall, the project States
considered the Bank's role to be very helpful and constructive. In retrospect, the Bank performance
could be flawed for two shortcomings: (a) the preparation team did not fully appreciate the
complexities and problems in the creation and recruitment of such large number of qualified key
staff in technical areas in a timely manner; and (b) the limitations of likely key procurement agencies



iv
(DGS&D, PWDs) to cope up with large scale purchases of diverse equipment and construction for
institutions spread all over India, were underestimated which caused delays in an otherwise well
implemented project. Project implementation was enhanced by Joint Supervision missions with the
NPD. With the task management responsibility passing on to the New Delhi Office during the last
four years, the Bank's supervision became more effective.
11.   The performance of the Borrower was satisfactory at all times, especially in the
implementation of quality components and promotion of women participation. However, central
procurement and recruitment of key staff were delayed. The Borrower's project preparation was
well coordinated with States and had clearly defined objectives and programs. The project
implementation staff in States and at the NPIU was professionally qualified, motivated, and
cooperative but lacked any prior experience in implementation of World Bank assisted projects.
Project progress and implementation problems were frankly shared with the Bank missions. The
NPIU was effective in dealing with problems and attempted to provide solutions in a timely fashion.
The NPD, with support from MHRD officials at the highest levels, provided effective leadership in
addressing issues in States (e.g., appointment of teaching staff, allocation of funds, procurement of
equipment) and in providing guidance and policy support. Some States, could be faulted for
inadequate allocation of funds (Bihar), delays in the appointment of key additional staff, frequent
changes in SPIU staff, and State Finance asking for additional justification for components already
agreed during negotiations.
12.   Assessment of Project Outcomes: Achievement of most project objectives was highly
satisfactory with some targets exceeded and others showing some shortcomings. The Project
Development objectives and implementation progress were rated as highly satisfactory in the
previous review.
13.   Future Operations: The sustainability of the project is highly likely. The Government fully
understands that India's future competitiveness in the technology intensive global economy is, to a
large extent, dependent on the nation's ability to establish and maintain a base of manpower with
strong technical skills. For this reason, the Government has long been committed to the polytechnic
system as it has proved to be an important supplier of technically trained manpower to industry. The
support under the Ninth Five-Year Plan (1997-2002) indicates that there is no reason to expect this
commitment to waiver in the foreseeable future.
14.   A concern in the quest for sustainability has been the need to develop an effective funding
mechanism for resource allocation for quality improvement initiatives established by the project.
The Government has committed funds to meet all recurrent cost for consumables O&M, and staff
development. With improved participation of industry and the expanding income generation
activities of polytechnics, right conditions have been created for the sustainability of the project.
Moreover, the new policy framework under review is expected to further refine the management and
financing of the polytechnic system. Future support from the Bank, if any, being requested by the
MHRD should focus on these policy aspects to further improve its labor market orientation.
15.   All States reported that: (a) project supported/initiated activities have been integrated into the
State plans; (b) during the operational phase, adequate funds would be available to complete
unfinished works; and (c) funds would also be available to continue quality improvement activities.



v
An operational plan, acceptable to IDA, has been prepared. It includes, among other details,
completion of all unfinished works; appointment of remaining teaching staff in all polytechnics;
continued support to in-service teacher training; installation and commissioning of newly received
equipment, if still pending.
16.   Key Lessons: Following is a summary of important findings and key lessons learned:
(a) It is possible for even a very complex multi-State project to be successful with full
ownership and commitment of the States along with policy support and critical technical
assistance from the Center;
(b) Effective coordination and periodic joint reviews can lead to cooperation, knowledge
sharing and healthy competition between project entities;
(c) With the current emphasis on decentralization, more Bank attention should be given to
local implementers. Technical assistance should be provided by the Bank and the
Borrower to these implementers at an early stage;
(d) In a complex multi-State project covering many States and such large number of wide-
spread project locations, decentralized procurement would be more efficient;
(e) Timely creation and filling of key staff positions with qualified and trained staff is most
critical for success of an education project to ensure quality. This should be a necessary
condition linked to disbursement in all such project involving heavy investments in
buildings and equipment;
(f) The project could have reached a higher degree of success with greater institutional
autonomy of polytechnics and decentralization.
(g) The very significant increase in women enrollment in polytechnics indicated their keen
desire to enter new areas like electronics, computers, fashion design, architecture, etc., if
proper atmosphere and opportunities are created and supported by visible policy measures
like reservation in employment.
(h) Technical training of the handicapped needs special efforts, tools and teaching skills. Its
integration in the main stream of technical education is a major challenge requiring major
R&D efforts and resources.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2130 IN! Ln. 3195 IN)
PART- I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1. Background: The modernization of Indian industry, which began in the 1980's, and
subsequent liberalization of the economy exposed the shortage of high quality technicians as a
major impediment to the globalization of Indian economy. Despite its impressive expansion
through public and private investments (private Polytechnics experienced rapid growth during
1980's), diversification of courses, and the establishment of four Regional TTTIs to provide
R&D and staff development support, the system still could not satisfy the emerging needs of the
economy. The main weaknesses were identified by the MHRD as: (a) problems related to its
capacity to adjust programs to changing market needs; (b) poor quality of graduates; and (c) the
low efficiency with which the system operated. In 1988, as a follow up to the country's new
National Policy of Education (NPE-86), Government of India formulated a 10 year technician
education investment program, to facilitate the supply of adequately trained technical manpower
to the industrial sector.
2.  The project covered 279 polytechnics in the States of Bihar, Goa (included in the project in
1993), Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh (MP), Orissa, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh
(UP), and the four regional Technical Teachers' Training Institutes at Bhopal, Calcutta,
Chandigarh and Chennai. The State Directorates of Technical Education and Boards of
Technical Examination were also strengthened. Bank group's assistance supported the project
goals of policy reforms, institutional development and technology dissemination. The proposal
was appraised by the Bank in January 1990. The project became effective on December 5, 1990.
3.  Project Objectives: The project supported specific investments in support of the Ten Year
Investment Program according to NPE-86. Its main objective was to make education in
polytechnics (Government and government-aided) more responsive to the expansion of science
and technology and the needs of the industry and the rural sector through the introduction of new
technology and training approaches in the project States. Specifically, the objectives were to: (a)
expand the capacity of the polytechnic education system; (b) improve the quality of polytechnic
programs; and (c) enhance the efficiency of management and operation of the polytechnic
system.
4.  The Capacity Expansion Objective was to be achieved by: (a) establishing new co-ed
polytechnics; (b) introducing new programs in new and emerging technologies; (c) establishing
new women's polytechnics, and women's wings in selected co-ed polytechnics; (d) setting up



2
continuing education centers and cells; (e) offering continuing education courses for the
industrial, rural and informal sectors in polytechnics and community polytechnics; and (f) setting
up training facilities for the handicapped.
5.  The Quality Improvement Objective was to be achieved by: (a) strengthening teacher
education and training programs in the TTTIs; (b) establishing curriculum and learning resource
development centers; (c) modernizing laboratories/workshops; (d) establishing an equipment
maintenance system; (e) initiating internal revenue generation activities; and (f) instituting
faculty development programs in the States.
6.  The Efficiency Improvement Objective was to be achieved by: (a) strengthening
administration and management of Bureau of Technical Education, state Directorates and Boards
of Technical education; (b) granting autonomy to a selected number of polytechnics; and (c)
strengthening institute-industry collaboration.
7.  Objective-wise, the financial allocations without contingencies were Capacity Expansion
38% (Rs. 2204 million), Quality Improvement 48% (Rs. 2805 million) and Efficiency
Improvement 14% (Rs. 780 million). Initial expenditure for the project was to be incurred
through State resources allocated to them under their respective Five-Year Plans and all eligible
expenses were to be subsequently reimbursed by the GOI.
8.  The Project Objectives were clear and their direct linkage to the national policies and
programs (NPE-86 and the Ten-Year Investment Program) was very strong. Development of
specific objectives and implementation strategies by the Directorates of Technical Education,
with assistance from TTTIs, contributed to the ownership of the project in most States. Within
the overall scope of its main objectives, the project provided enough flexibility to States to make
necessary changes in various components over the seven-year implementation period.
Objectives involving policy reforms (autonomy and flexibility, linkages with industry,
computerized management information system) however lacked specificity in the overall scope
of policy reform. This lack of clarity was, to some extent, offset by closer interaction between
the National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU), State Project Implementation Units (SPIUs),
Technical Teachers Training Institutes (TTTIs) and the All India Board of Technician Education
of AICTE.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.  Overall, the Project Review Aides-Memoire report steady achievement of physical targets
with accelerated progress during the last 2-3 years. The project objectives were achieved and the
targets even exceeded by some States. Their status is summarized next.
10. The Capacity expansion Objective has been fully achieved with some limitations, as
follows: (a) all the planned 67 Post-Diploma Courses and 148 new Diploma Courses have been
introduced. The problem of non-availability of qualified teachers for some courses persists and
requires AICTE's attention for relaxation of qualifications; (b) eighteen new Coeducational



3
Polytechnics have been established with three in Bihar still functioning in temporary locations.
These three works may be completed by April 1999. The new Polytechnics have been appraised
by NPIU's specialist teams and corrective actions as required have been carried out. Twenty
eight women's polytechnics/wings for women in co-ed polytechnics have been established
against a target of 24 (UP has established four more women's wings with their own resources);
(c) a total of 5609 hostel places for boys and 4199 places for women have been created in project
States; Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan, and UP achieved the targets; (d) eleven polytechnics
in the States of Karnataka, Kerala, and Orissa are performing the entire range of community
polytechnic activities; (e) the Karnataka and UP project management teams have to be
complimented for establishing one polytechnic each for the handicapped in a very tight schedule.
Faculty appointments and their specialized training will determine the success of these
institutions in future; (f) some 8500 persons benefited from the 93 Continuing Education
Centers, established under the project. With Gujarat, Karnataka, and Kerala accounting for 80%
of participants, other States require that more attention be paid to these programs in their future
operations.
11. The targets for Quality Improvement Objectives have been generally met and even
exceeded for a few sub-components, as follows: (a) all proposed State-level Curriculum
Development Centers have been established and curricula for new diploma and post-diploma
courses are under implementation. Revisions of all existing curricula in States, according to
AICTE norms, have been completed; (b) against the original target of 21 polytechnics (revised to
53) where flexible programs based on multi-point entry and credit system (MPECS) were to be
introduced, 84 polytechnics now offer such programs; (c) all the 7 staff development centers and
208 cells in the polytechnics are functional and have exceeded the targets of planned staff
months of training to teaching staff. Training of laboratory and workshop staff has, however,
lagged behind (achievement being 75% of planned staff months of training); (d) establishment of
new laboratories and modernization of existing laboratories and workshops have been achieved,
about 10% with delays because of late completion of works and procurement of equipment; (e)
the planned 9 State-level Learning Resource Development Centers (LRDCs) and 254 Learning
Resource Utilization Centers (LRUCs) have been established. Discussions with teachers and
students confirmed the good quality of the new materials developed by LRDCs; (f) after repeated
serious concerns conveyed by IDA missions and efforts made by the MHRD at the highest level
to facilitate recruitment of key additional staff by States, 1937 (91%) of the 2124 newly created
teaching posts have been filled but some of these are still on ad-hoc or part-time basis; and (g)
against planned 229 computer centers, 236 have been established in polytechnics and are in use
by the continuing education and regular course students.
12. Most of the Efficiency Improvement objectives have been achieved. The status is as
follows: (a) to facilitate Industry Institute Interaction all the 8 State-level and 221 polytechnic-
level Cells have been established and are contributing to the quality of training of students in
polytechnics with wide variations in effectiveness. Some have led to far reaching cooperation
through Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with local industry exceeding the expectations
in the SAR while many others in less industrialized areas are still having only limited
interaction. Industrial visits by students and teachers, campus interviews, and frequent guest
lectures by experts from the industry are on the increase. With the exception of a few industry-



4
sponsored polytechnics, no major break-through in employer participation in management and
financing of training activities is evident. A new policy framework for technician education (see
paragraph 13) is expected to accelerate this partnership with industry; (b) all States had been
cautious and some even hesitant in granting autonomy to polytechnics. After considerable
debate on the purpose and scope of autonomous institutions, 30 polytechnics (including 10 in
Karnataka in 1998) have been made autonomous against a target of 17. The degree and nature of
autonomy, however, varies. Some States have given financial or administrative autonomy; while
some others have given only limited academic autonomy; (c) the establishment of 16
Maintenance Centers in States and Maintenance Cells in 238 Polytechnics would ensure
adequate maintenance of equipment in polytechnics; (d) in some States accurate information
regarding efficiency indicators - pass percentage, dropout rates and repetition rates,
employment rates etc., is not available. Tracer studies conducted by the TTTIs, however, show
external efficiency gains in project supported institutions in comparison to non-project
institutions.
13. Some Unanticipated Project Results: Project implementation has resulted in some
important unanticipated gains or over-achievement of the SAR targets:
-  A new policy framework, with active participation from the employers, is under
finalization. This goes much beyond the anticipated scope of work of the Industry-
Institute Interaction Centers/Cells and is likely to establish a lasting partnership with the
industry in the management and financing of polytechnics.
*  Women's enrollment in project polytechnics increased from 11% pre-project average to
about 30% against the planned project outcome of 15.6 % due to major policy support by
most States through reservation of seats in enrollment and employment of women,
scholarships and awareness campaign; in MP these enrollments increased from 4.3% to
45%. Kerala recorded an increase from 20% to 45%.
*  Two special polytechnics for the Handicapped (in place of one proposed) have been
established. A good beginning has been made in developing special methods of teaching
and development of learning resources - this is attracting attention and now leading to a
national initiative in integrating the handicapped in the main stream of technician
education.
* With supporting policies and incentives introduced in the States, Internal Revenue
Generation (IRG) is picking up. In spite of some States still lagging behind, cumulative
IRG of Rs. 310 million has been reported and has the potential of further substantial
growth when the proposed new Policy Framework is in place.
*  TTTIs and the vast pool of professionals available at national level were properly utilized
by the NPD in strategy formulation and evaluation studies. These include tracer studies,
evaluation of staff development courses, regular formative evaluation of project
outcomes, preparation of strategy papers, and a series of seminars for senior project staff



5
in States. These interventions have provided valuable feedback and refined project
interventions that would enhance the sustainability of the project.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
14. On overcoming the initial delays in the setting up and staffing of Project Implementation
Units at the Center and in the States and adoption of procedures, project implementation showed
significant improvement. By mid-1993, a sense of project ownership became perceptible in
many States. A re-focussing of attention on quality improvement after the mid-term review and
NPD's initiatives in developing a supportive policy framework in 1996 led to significant
achievement of targets in related components.
15. Project Costs: The total project cost at appraisal was estimated as US$382.7 million (Rs.
8327.72 million) of which IDA was to finance SDR 178.2 million (US$235.0 million equivalent)
and IBRD US$ 25 million with GOI/States financing the remaining amount. Although approved
originally as an IDAIIBRD blended project, the IBRD loan component was cancelled on
December 5, 1991 at the Borrower's request. At the same time, SDR 18.4 million from the
Credit amount were also cancelled as savings anticipated due to significant devaluation of the
local currency. At the close of the project, the Credit was fully utilized. The Borrower provided
around Rs. 1400 million of counterpart funds. The final project cost was Rs. 9991.12 million
(about US$270 million equivalent). The additional cost, in rupee terms, was due to inclusion of
the State of Goa in 1993 and revision of some project targets during implementation.
16. Credit Amendments: The Project experienced several other amendments to the Credit
Agreement as follows: (a) increase in the disbursement rates for all categories of expenditure in
November/December 1990 in the wake of the Gulf crisis and to bring it in conformity with the
Second Technician Education Project (Cr. 2223-N); (b) raising the ceiling for the Bank's prior
review for civil works from US$200,000 to US$300,000 in June 1991; (c) inclusion of Goa in
the project in July 1993; (d) reallocation of Credit funds in January 1997 to accommodate
variations in estimated costs; and (e) extension of the project closing date by three months to
September 30, 1998, to facilitate supply of equipment already ordered. Audit reports were
submitted by most States in time throughout the implementation period
17. Compliance with Covenants: With the exception of recruitment of additional staff in the
TTTIs, all covenants have been complied with fully or in a manner acceptable to IDA. The
allocation of Credit proceeds to States and for the various components followed the criteria
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
18. Procurement and Technical Assistance: Procurement of works, equipment, and technical
assistance (TA) were completed with delays. The problems experienced are summarized below:
(a) Of civil works at 257 locations, 5 works in Bihar could not be completed. Completion
time for civil works ranged from 2 to 4 years. Only 20% of the major civil works
were completed on time and about 25% works were delayed beyond 12 months of the



6
contracted completion date. Majority of works was entrusted to State Departments
(SDs) with some 26% executed by Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs). In timely
completion, PSUs performed better than SDs. Both SDs and PSUs followed, in
addition to IDA Guidelines, their own procedures and pace of construction. The State
Directorates and SPIUs could not exercise desired control for timely completion of
construction. This was further compounded by multiple State level approvals required
before inviting bids and finalizing contracts. The State Level Empowered Committees
took some time in becoming effective to provide a single window clearance and quick
decisions to expedite works.
(b) In the absence of detailed planning of services at design stage and the required input
from the end-user, modifications had to be carried out in completed buildings resulting
in add-ons and delays. The delays resulted in substantial cost escalation. Yet another
contributing factor to delays was inadequate provision of funds in some States
(especially Bihar) leading to phasing of works. Completion of a few major works (2
in Karnataka, 3 in Orissa, 3 in Rajasthan and 3 in UP) in scheduled time of 12-18
months establishes that delays and resulting cost escalation could have been avoided.
(c) The central procurement agencies failed in varying degrees to organize procurement
of equipment in a timely manner. Their complex procedures and computer system
support did not suit the requirements for the procurement of the large number and
variety of items needed by institutions spread all over the country according to
schedule. They showed their inability to procure some of the indented equipment in
the final stages of implementation which had then to be procured by the States and
was the major reason for the extension of the closing date of the project by three
months. The States, however, proved effective in procurement of equipment worth
Rs. 1486 million (58%), mostly through NCB. Timely preparation of the equipment
specifications, bid packages, institution-wise lists of requirements, and more
procurement by States would have minimized some of these delays.
(d) For technical assistance, US$4.2 million were utilized. Whereas most States made
appropriate use of local consultants and local training for staff, Kerala and Karnataka
teachers had problems in attending programs out of the State due to tedious approval
process. No expatriate consultant was appointed and foreign training fell short of the
target by about 17%. However, foreign expertise to some extent was availed by three
States (MP, Kamataka, and Kerala) under some bilateral projects.
19. Staff Appointments: This remained a focus of attention in most review missions.
Interventions at the highest level by MHRD, modifications in recruitment procedures by some
States, and continued follow-up by IDA missions finally resulted in filling of about 91%
(including about 20% on ad-hoc/contract appointments) of 2124 created teaching posts. In
January 1996 IDA informed that it intended to stop disbursements if no progress was reported in
defaulting States. Starting with delays in creation of posts, other reported reasons were: (a)
lengthy recruitment cycle and rigidity in procedures for recruitment through respective Public
Service Commissions of these States; (b) non-availability of qualified staff against reserved seats



7
(SC, ST, and other backward classes); and (c) time taken for obtaining the AICTE approvals for
alternative qualification of teachers for new programs where candidates with the requisite
qualifications were not available. These reasons are closer to reality as the polytechnic system
continues to operate with 10-15% vacancies. Problems of teacher recruitment have to be
addressed in future operation of the project and constitute the single most important reason for
grant of autonomy to polytechnics.
20. Studies: No specific studies were proposed in the SAR. But, following the suggestions
made by the Review missions and at the initiative of NPIU and TTTIs, a large number of studies
was conducted during the project (Table 7).
21. Major Factors Which Influenced Implementation:
(a) the project being in the State sector and affecting the entire polytechnic education
system in nine project States, there was full ownership of the project at the State level,
and most State Secretaries and Directors of Technical Education provided the required
leadership to ensure success of the project to make a difference to the polytechnic
education as a whole;
(b) with frequent joint meetings/reviews of all States with detailed reporting by
SPIUs/NPIU, publication of news letters by many States, NPIU and TTTIs and
periodic State/regional/national level workshops, there was considerable exchange of
knowledge between States Directorates and between polytechnic principals within a
State; there was also a sense of competition between the project States;
(c) the Project received full policy support at the National level through the Education
Secretary, the National Steering Committee, and the All India Board of Technician
Education of the AICTE;
(d) the services of professionals conversant with the technician education system at the
Central, State and TTTI levels were well utilized in project implementation. The
National Project Director, also being a Joint Educational Advisor (Tech.), ensured
coordination between the sectoral policies and implementation;
(e) significant delays in creation of posts, staff recruitment and training affected the
quality of teaching adversely for 2-3 years in some States. Frequent changes of key
implementation staff in SPIUs, resulted in loss of sustained focus on key project
thrusts in some States and diverted their attention to the achievement of only physical
targets;
(f) the inability of the identified Central agency (DGS&D) and subsequently COFMOW)
to cope up with large-scale purchases of diverse equipment for some 280 institutions,
caused delays in procurement. Reliance on more state-level procurement could have
resulted in timely procurement, installation and utilization of equipment for training.



8
Similarly, the slow implementation of works by Government Departments delayed the
benefits of the project to students by 2-3 years.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22. The sustainability of the project is highly likely. The Government fully understands that
India's future competitiveness in the technology intensive global economy is, to a large extent,
dependent on the nation's ability to establish and maintain a base of manpower with strong
technical skills. For this reason, the Government has long been committed to the polytechnic
system as it has proved to be an important supplier of technically trained manpower to industry.
The support under the Ninth Five-Year plan (1997-2002) indicates that there is no reason to
expect this commitment to waver in the foreseeable future.
23. A concern in the quest for sustainability has been the need to develop a funding mechanism
for steady provision of resources for quality improvement initiatives established under the
project. With improved participation of industry and the expanding income generation activities
of polytechnics, right conditions have been created for the sustainability of the project. The new
policy framework, under finalization, is expected to support these developments. Future support
from the Bank, if any, being requested by the MHRD should focus on policy aspects to further
improve its labor market orientation.
24. Major outcomes of the project, as expressed by some beneficiary groups of students,
teachers, and students, during ICR mission are modernization of laboratories and workshops,
systematic faculty development, and interaction between industry and the polytechnics. It was
also stressed by these groups that all these initiatives should be actively pursued during
operational phase of the project.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
25. The Bank provided effective project preparation assistance to a complex and ambitious
project according to the MHRD's Ten-Year Investment program. In retrospect, however, the
Bank could be flawed for two shortcomings: (a) the preparation team did not fully appreciate the
complexities and problems in the creation and recruitment of such large number of qualified key
staff in technical areas in a timely manner; and (b) the limitations of likely key procurement
agencies (DGS&D, PWDs) to cope up with large-scale purchases of diverse equipment and
construction for institutions spread all over India, were underestimated which caused delays in
an otherwise well-implemented project.
26. Project implementation was enhanced by Joint Supervision missions with the NPD. With
the transfer of the task management responsibility to the New Delhi Office during the last four
years, the Bank's supervision became more effective. The Borrower's view is that Bank's
reviews for construction and procurement contracts took a comparatively longer time during the
transition phase. During the last two years of implementation, the MHRD, with support from



9
Bank missions, realized the need of a new policy framework to achieve the outcomes defined in
the appraisal report and initiated its development with assistance from an Expert Working
Group. Overall, the project States considered the Bank's role to be helpful and constructive.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
27. Overall, the performance of the Borrower was satisfactory at all times, especially in the
implementation of quality components and promotion of women participation. However, central
procurement and recruitment of key staff were delayed. The Borrower's project preparation was
well coordinated with the States and had clearly defined objectives and programs. The project
implementation staff in the States and at the NPIU was professionally qualified, motivated and
cooperative, but lacked any prior experience in World Bank-assisted projects. Project progress
and implementation problems were frankly shared with the Bank staff. The NPIU was effective
in dealing with problems and attempted to provide solutions in a timely fashion. The NPD, with
support from MHRD officials at the highest levels, provided effective leadership in addressing
issues in the States e.g., appointment of teaching staff, allocation of funds, procurement of
equipment) and in providing guidance and policy support. Some States could be faulted for:
inadequate allocation of funds (Bihar), State finance requiring additional justification for
components already agreed during negotiations, project funds given as advance by GOI being
diverted to non-project programs, frequent changes in the senior officials, delays in creation of
posts and appointment of key additional staff, and in providing State-level policy support to
implement key project components (autonomy, flexibility, IRG).
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
28. Achievement of most project objectives was highly satisfactory with some targets exceeded
and others showing minor shortcomings as indicated in paragraphs 10-12.  The Project
Development objectives and implementation progress were rated satisfactory throughout the
implementation period of the project and highly satisfactory during the last two reviews. Factors
that have contributed to this are: (a) the strong commitment of the National Project Directorate in
MHRD which ensured that the sector policy support was consistent with the component thrusts;
(b) the efficient management role played by National and State project implementation staff; (c)
the inputs given by Bank's review missions; and (d) the support provided by the Technical
Teacher Training Institutes, especially with regard to Quality and Efficiency components.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
29. Satisfactory future operation of the project would depend on the completion of remaining
incomplete tasks and availability of State funds. Table 6 provides a summary of the operational
plan prepared by the Borrower and gives details of expected provision of funds for project
supported or project initiated activities after the project closing. Continuation of quality
improvement activities (teacher training, recruitment of teachers, curriculum development,



10
development of learning resources, etc.) are an important part of this plan. The Operational Plan
also provides indicators for monitoring and evaluation of future operation.
30. Preparatory work for a follow-up project is in progress in many States. The proposed
project aims at consolidating the gains of the present project and implementing the policy
measures recommended by an Expert Group.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
31. Following is a summary of important findings and key lessons learned:
(a) It is possible for even a very complex multi-State project to be successful with full
ownership and commitment of the States along with policy support and critical
technical assistance from the Center;
(b) Effective coordination and periodic joint reviews can lead to cooperation, knowledge
sharing and healthy competition between project entities;
(c) With the current emphasis on decentralization, more Bank attention should be given to
local implementers. Technical assistance should be provided by the Bank and the
Borrower to these implementers at an early stage;
(d) In a complex multi-State project covering many States and such a large number of
wide-spread project locations, decentralized procurement would be more efficient;
(e) Timely creation and filling of key staff positions with qualified and trained staff is
most critical for success of an education project to ensure quality. This should be a
necessary condition linked to disbursement in all such project involving heavy
investments in buildings and equipment;
(f) The project could have reached a higher degree of success with greater institutional
autonomy of polytechnics and decentralization.
(g) The very significant increase in women enrollment in polytechnics indicated their
keen desire to enter new areas such as electronics, computers, fashion design,
architecture, etc., if proper atmosphere and opportunities are created and supported by
visible policy measures like reservation in employment.
(h) Technical training of the handicapped needs special efforts, tools and teaching skills.
Its integration in the main stream of technical education is a major challenge requiring
major R&D efforts and resources.



11
India: First Technician Education Project
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial     Partial         Negligible     Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                             X
Sector policies                    X       .        _ _                             .
Financial objectives               X__
Institutional development          X
Physical objectives                X         _
Poverty reduction                                                                  X
Gender concerns                    X
Other social objectives                            X
Environmental objectives                                                           X
Public sector management                                                           X
Private sector management                                                          X
Other (Specify)                                                                    X
I ::  r  Likely      I     Unlikely              Uncertain
B. Project sustainability                X
IC. Bank performance              Highly satisfactory        Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification a                                                             _ ___|
Preparation assistance     L                                  x_I
Appraisal                                                            _ X   j
Supervision                |         X
D. Borrower performance         Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                                           _                                 _X
i Implementation                                                >:l 
Covenant compliance                                               X
|   Operation (if applicable)                                 x ________,X_
|   Highly       Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory        Highly
satisfactory                                      unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of outcome           X       |_I_I_ I



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit/Loan                              Achievement/Purpose                            Year of approval               Status
Past Operations
Cr. 342-IN             To support University level agricultural education and research at Assam    1973                 Closed in 1982
Agricultural Education    Agricultural University, Rajendra Agricultural University in Bihar and
Project                Institute of Agricultural Research in New Delhi. PPAR noted that most of the
objectives of the project had been achieved.
LN 3093-IN             To improve the quality of instruction in department of Electronics in selected  1989             Closed in 1996
Electronics Industry   engineering colleges and polytechnics through modernization of equipment,
Development- HRD       staff development, learning resource development and industrial training of
component              students. Project objectives were achieved.
Ongoing Operations
Cr. 2008-IN            To support the implementation of GOI's long term program to modernize and   1989             Closed on 12/31/98 after
Vocational Training    restructure National Vocational Training System                                                  two extensions
Cr. 2223-IN            To support GOI's Ten year Technician Education Investment program, for      1992               To close on 6/30/99
Second Technician      capacity expansion, quality improvement and efficiency improvement of the
Education Project      technician education system in 10 project States.
Cr. 2699-IN            To improve the quality and relevance of higher agricultural education and in-  1995           To close on 12/31/2000
Agricultural Human     service training in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Tamil Nadu.
Resource Development
Project



13
India: First Technician Education Project
Table 3  Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned               Date Actual/Latest
______________________________________ _______._____________________estim ate
Identification                        06/04/88                      06/04/88
Preparation                         October 1988                  April 1989
Appraisal                           October 1989                  01/15/1990
Negotiations                        January 1990               March 9-12, 1990
Board Presentation                   March 1990                     5/1/1990
Signing                   j          June 1990                     8/13/1990
Effectiveness                       September                      12/05/1990
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _1 9 9 0_ _ _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _
Mid Term Review                     Second half                9/20/1994 - 10/20/94
________ __._____________ _19_ 9    9 4
Project Completion                    06/30/98                      09/30/98
Loan Closing                          09/30/98                       12/31/98



14
Actual cumulative
Actual
Year         Estimates (Cumulative)   (ctual   as % of Total
Credit (revised)
SAR        Revised
(US $ millions)    (US $ millions)
1991           11.00        17.00        14.79           6.56
1992           38.57        32.00        30.45          13.50
1993           78.96        54.00        52.80          23.40
1994          125.24        80.00        77.62          34.40
1995          170.15       108.00       104.66          46.39
1996          211.03       136.00       128.49          56.95
1997          245.04       168.00       166.14          73.64
1998          260.00       200.00       193.76          85.88
1999          260.00       225.64       225.63          100.00
Table 4: Credit Disbursements, Estimated and Actual
300.00 
,  Estimates
o9i150.00 -                     W     1 L                - -  S(Cumulative)
E                                                             SAR (US $
0                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~millions)
@000.00                                                      U  Estimates
(Cumulative)
Revised (US
50.00                                                        $ millions)
0.00                                                        (Cmumulative)
(US s
Ye-ar             2           millions)



15
India: First Technician Education Project
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Objectives & Sub Components                Estimated Outcome           Actual                            Comments
_      _    ___I  (Achievement %)
As per | Modified*
SARl
1. CAPACITY EXPANSION
New Diploma Courses                                  150 (70)    148 (83)         148 (83)
Total Number (Type of Courses)                    l                         l     (100%)
| New Post Diploma Courses                           89 (52)      67 (45)         67(45)
Total Number (Type of Courses)                    [                         I     (100%)       l
New Co-ed Polytechnics                                 19           17              18          Film & Television Institute is separated from an existing
(I100%)      polytechnic in Orissa.
Strengthening newly established polytechnics           35           43           43 (100%)
Continuing education centers and cells in polytechnics  68    [   10+82            10+83        One additional continuing education cell for the
l___________________________ _  l_ _ [ _(over 100%)  handicapped established in U.P.
Community polytechnic activities in selected polytechnics  21       11              11          Community polytechnic wings in all other polytechnics
*___________________________________________   1  I________    _________   (100%)  supported under another scheme of GOI
Residential Women's Polytechnics and Wings for women 11   22    1   24              28*         *UP has established four additional Women wings in
in Co-ed polytechnics                                         11                (over 100%)     existing polytechnics from its own resources.
Hostel places for boys                            0   6530   |     5709        5609 (98.2%)   |
Hostel places for girls                           0   3660         4283         4199 (98%)     _
Faculty houses                                    1   1295         870          863 (99.2%)   1
Staff Quarters                                    l 1639           1296    1   1292 (99.7%)    _
Number of new labs and workshops created          1   1384   j    1014           983(97%)       Remaining labs/workshops are under construction
* Indicators were modified in December 1994, subsequent to the mid-term review of the project.



16
Objectives & Sub Components                Estimated Outcome           Actual                            Comments
_ _  ~  (Achievement %)
As per  j Modified
II. Quality Improvement
Modemising Labs in Polytechnics. Number of            229          235              235
Polytechnics and number of labs.                     (2444)       (2816)          (2816)
(100%)
Setting up Staff Development Centers and Cells in    10+152      7 + 203          7 + 208
Polytechnics                                                                   (above 100%)
Setting up Computer Centers                           147          229              236
(103%)
Introducing flexibility in program offering (MPEC)     21           53              84          Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have introduced
Number of Polytechnics                                                      l     (158%)        flexibility in most of their polytechnics.
Faculty development: Number of teachers trained       7797         8502         7901 (93%)      Shortfall due to delays in appointment of regular faculty
Person-months of training conducted                     -         20775       21043 (101.3%)  X
Setting up Curriculum Development Centers              9            8            9 (100%)    |
% of courses with curricula updated within last 5 years  100%      100%            100%
% of new courses for which curricula developed        100%         100%            100%       ir                                                   i
Setting up LRDCs and LRUCs                           10+152       9+254        9+254 (100%)    Target revised to cover most project polytechnics
% of trained teaching staff                          72.5%        96.1%        89.6% (930%)    Shortfall due to delays in appointment of regular faculty
% of teaching posts filled (overall)                  98%          100%           88.7%         Bihar, M.P. & Orissa have highest % of vacancies.
Teacher Student Ratio                                   -          1:15            1:15         Bihar & Karnataka have higher ratios.
Percentage of SC/ST Students                         24.4%        24.4%      L    28.3%       l



17
Objectives & Sub Components               Estimated Outcome          Actual                            Comments
(Achievement %)
As per     Modified
SAR JI______dified
III. Efficiency Improvement
Key additional staff in State Level Centers (SPIU, DTE,  190     209              178        Bihar, Orissa and Gujarat have unfilled posts.
BTE); Curriculum Development Centers and in LRDC &                              (85%)
LRUCs
Setting up Industry Institute Interaction Centers &  10+186    7 + 221          8 + 221
Polytechnic Cells                                                               (100%)
Autonomous Polytechnics                              24           17              30         Bihar has accorded autonomy to 7 out of proposed 12.
(176%)       Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka have exceeded target.
Maintenance Centres and Cells in Polytechnics      17+262      15 + 243         16 +238
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  (99 %/  )              .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ __ _ _ _ __9
Key additional staff in polytechnics for new programs  2698     2124           1937(91%)     Most posts in Bihar filled with temporary staff.
Average Diploma pass rate                          77.5%         78%             76%         Pass rates reported low in M.P. and Karnataka. Gujarat
and Rajasthan have flexible programs and hence not
included in the analysis.
Average Drop-out rate                               5.8%        5.8%             3.4%
Time taken to publish exam results (Average)       5 weeks     5 weeks          6 weeks      U.P. and Kerala still take 8 weeks.
IV. OTHER-INDICATORS              _
Capacity Expansion
Additional student places created                  24665        24475           24575
(100.4%)
Percentage of women students in all polytechnics    15.6%       22.4%           29.6%
(132%)
Quality Improvement
Level of modernization of laboratories/workshops    87%         100%             85%         Level of modernization less than 65% in Bihar.
Utilization of foreign fellowships (person-months)    -          431             356.5       Bihar and Rajasthan utilized less than 50% of fellowships.
(83%)



18
India: First Technician Education Project
Table 6: Key Indicators for Future Project Operations
Project Components        Actions proposed                               Performance Indicators             Monitoring Evaluating
________________________   _ ______________.. __________________________  _ ________A _______________. _ _   A g en cy
Civil works               Bihar has made a provision to complete         Polytechnics start functioning in new   DTE, Bihar
remaining works at 5 sites by April 1999.     building.
2.   Equipment procurement      A budget provision of Rs.62m has been made in    Modemization of laboratories carried   DTE, Bihar
Bihar, to complete procurement by 3/99.       out as planned.
3.   Filling up staff vacancies    Reduce the vacancies to less than 10% by January  Meeting the prescribed AICTE normns  DTE
2000.                                         in all programs/polytechnics
4.   New Technology Programs  Programs will be reviewed periodically based on       - Utilization of budget       *   DTE
Industry needs.                               *   Staff months of training        *   TTTIs
Appointments will be made to fill vacant posts.    *   Employment of graduates
Provisions will be made to continue staff training.  *   Vacancy level. (staff)
New courses will be introduced as per needs.
Financial provisions made by states: Gujarat
Rs.610m (for all components), Kerala Rs.200m,
Orissa Rs.77.2m, Uttar Pradesh Rs.409m, Goa
Rs.28.2m
5.   New Polytechnics           *   Financial provisions made in State Five-Year  *   Occupancy of student places.  *   DTE
Plans. Uttar Pradesh Rs.640m, Orissa      *   Employment of graduates.        *   Student/teacher/ industry
Rs.37.4m, Kerala Rs.40m.                  *   Internal Resource generated         feed back
*   Changes in curriculum and intake will be      through continuing education    *   TTTIs
made on the basis of industry needs.          programs.
*   Staff vacancy will be kept at a minimum.  *   Percentage of trained staff.
* Staff training will be provided as per AICTE
norms.
* Maintenance of building and equipment will
be given priority.
6.   Increased access to women   *   Reservation of seats will be made for    *   Reduced drop-out rate           *   DTE
students, and posts for teachers, in states  *   Increase in percentage of women  *   TTTIs
where participation is still low.             students, teachers
*   Scholarships introduced during the project    *   Employment rate
will continue.                            *   Meeting demand for hostel
*   Provision for facilities like hostels, and    places.
employment guidance will continue.
* Budget allocations to continue activities
proposed, Uttar Pradesh Rs.77.5m, Orissa



19
Rs.2.5m
*   More polytechnics for women will be set up
in Uttar Pradesh.
7.   Continuing Education       *   Provisions made in IX Plan and annual     *   Number of courses offered/      *   SPIU
budgets Uttar Pradesh Rs.0.5m, Kerala         beneficiaries attending courses.   a   Advisory Committees
Rs.5m                                     *   Income generated.                   formed by DTE
*   Short-term courses on self-financing basis  *   Industry participation in     *   Impact studies by TTTIs
will continue to be offered by C.E. Cells.    planning.
*   Provision for engaging short/long term
experts when required.
*   Staff training on continuing education will be
developed/procured.
8.   Teacher training          *   Financial provisions for continuing teacher    *  Person months of training/year    *   Staff Development Cell
training made in Kerala (Rs. 1 5m), Orissa  *   Annual staff development plans    at DTE
(Rs.5m), UP (Rs.66.4m), Rajasthan (100        of individual polytechnics and  *   SPIU
staff months/year)                            consolidated plan for the State  *   TTTI Study/survey
*   Continued provision for staff development in  Utilisation of allocated funds.  *   Teacher feedback
states.                                   *  Appropriate deployment of
*   Enhancing fees to be charged by TTTIs for     trained teachers.
staff development.
9.   Modernisation of           .   Financial provisions made in IX Plan, in UP   *   Utilisation level for regular/short  *   SPIU
Workshops/ Laboratories       (Rs. lOOm), Orissa (Rs.90m), Kerala           term training.                   *   DTE
(Rs.150m)                               D    Level of maintenance (low        *   Log Books
*  More hi-tech training equipment will be        down-time).                     *   Impact Studies
_    iintroduced.                             l                                   l
10.  Curriculum development    *  Financial provisions made for continued     *   Curriculum meets TEB/Industry   *   BTE Committee Review
activities - Kerala (Rs.5m), Orissa           requirements                   0*   Curricula evaluation
(Rs.2.5m), UP (Rs.3.13m)                R    Introduction of flexibility          studies by TTTIs
*   Feed back from industry will be obtained.
*   Programs will be made more flexible.
11.l Strengthening State       *   Financial provisions made in IX Plan, UP   *   Results declared without delay.   *   State Department of
Directorate/ State Boards     (Rs.35m), Orissa (Rs.60m), Rajasthan                                               Technical Education
(Rs.1m).                                                                      *   AICTE/TEB Review
*   Staff training will continue.                                                     Committees
*   MIS will be made operational.
*   Program reviews will be undertaken every
year.
*   Student assessment and certification
_______               improvement.                             ___._.L__.._....__..._ _...



20
12.  Grant of autonomy        *  Provisions made to maintain autonomous     *  Institute/Program accreditation.   *   AICTE
status.                                  *  Number of institutions given    *   Committee appointed by
*   Financial provisions made as required - UP   autonomous status.                 State Department
(Rs. 15m), Orissa (Rs.20m)               *   Institutional evaluation on    *   SPIU, DTE, BTE
paramneters of excellence.    *   T.T.T.I.
13.  Flexibility in Programs  *  Financial provisions made.                 *   Choices available to students,  *   BTE
*   Propose to extend to other programs.         and extent of multi-level entry.    *   SPIU
*   Introduction of innovations such as      *   Average time-taken for program   *   Student/Teacher/
competency based curricula will be tried out.  completion.                      Employer Feed-back
*   Student employment rate.      *   Impact Studies
*   Skill oriented course availability.
14.  Industry-Institute       *  Financial provisions made in IX Plan Orissa   *  Number of collaborative     *   SPIU/DTE
Interaction                  (Rs.4m), Kerala (Rs.5m)                       programs with industry.       *   Advisory Committee
*  I.I. Centres will continue to function.   *  Number of industries involved.      Review
*  All posts required will be filled and     *   Student training per year.    *   Student/Industry feed
personnel trained.                       *  Areas of industry involvement.      back.
* Placements made.
15.  Maintenance System       *   Financial provisions made in IX Plan UP   *   Level of operational status of  *   SPIU/DTE Review
(Rs.l5.5m), Orissa (Rs.23m), Kerala          equipment.
(Rs.5m), Rajasthan (Rs.8m)               *   Level of Building maintenance.
*  More powers to Principals for expenditure on  *  Budget utilisation.
maintenance, as required, will be given.
*   Provision for staff and staff training will be
given.
16.  LRDCs_LRUCs              *   Financial allocation made in IX Plan. UP  *   Relevance of LRs produced.    *   SPIUs/DTE
(Rs.6.7m), Orissa (Rs.6m), Kerala (Rs.5m)    *  Use of LRs by students/teachers.  *   Student/teacher feed
*   LRDCs will continue to develop and procure  *   Output of LRDCs.                back
LRs.                                     *  Income generated by LRDCs       *  LRUC Log Book
*  Resource person development and faculty                                      *   Impact Studies
training.
*  Posts remaining unfilled will be filled.
17.  Computer Centres                                                       * Financial allocations made in IX Plan Orissa   *  Utilization level of facilities.  *   SPIU/DTE Board of
(Rs.8m), Kerala (Rs.20m), Rajasthan      *   Updating of facilities.            Governors
(Rs.56m)                                                                   *   Training Program
*  Computer training proposed for all                                               Schedules
students/teachers.                                                         *   Student/Teacher/particip
*   Utilization for short courses will be                                          ant feedback.
encouraged.
* Provision to acquire new software made.



21
India: First Technician Education Project
Table 7: Major Studies included in Project
[  ]f              Study                          Purpose as defined in appraisal/         Status                      Impact of Study
l     X___  j  _________________________________________           redefined                11 _redefined
1.    Assessment of job potential and planning     To develop diploma programs in new        Completed in   Diploma programs developed were need based
and development of new diploma programs    technology areas.                             1992-93       and relevant
based on current and near future demands of
engineering industry.                       l
2.    A study to assess the recruitment cycle time    To determine factors responsible for       1992        Reduction in recruitment cycle.
for appointment of teachers.                 delays in teacher selection and
| appointment.                                            l
3.    Study of existing patterns of teacher        To identify different patterns of teacher     1993        Rationalization of teacher
recruitment, in polytechnics.                employment and career development in                      recruitment/deployment.
l____________________________________   Jj  project  states.
4.    A study of current status of Directorates and    To assess effectiveness of present        1993         Strengthening of DTEs and BTEs.
Boards of Technical Education                structure and activities of DTEs and
I                                            Jj BTEs
5.  | A study for preparing job descriptions for    1 To assess training needs of technicians    1994        Used to revise diploma and advanced diploma
technicians employed in hi-tech industries.    in hi-tech industries.                                  curricula in Electronics & Computer
l  I                    ll                                      ll                l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Technology.
6.  l Review of the process of equipment           To review procedures of procurement,           1994       Some improvement in procurement cycle.
procurement for project states by DGS&D.    supply and installation, and problem
I L  _    _     _     _      _     _     _     faced.                                      __              _
7.  3 A study to evolve models of participatory     Strategy design through analysis of          1994        Models evolved and shared with DTEs.
governance and internal management of        practices in well performing
l   Polytechnics.                              polytechnics.                                       ___    eco_ me__  ations_adopted_by_project_states.
8.  D National study of Women's education and      To identify hurdles faced by women job        1994        Recommendationsadoptedbyprojectstates.
t employment in the technical field.           seekers in technical field.            3__
9.  if Study of the status of training and placement   To assess adequacy of services            1995        Improved training and placement services at
services being provided by the polytechnic   provided.                                                 Polytechnics.
l system.                                    l                                         _        _       __
10.   Effectiveness of promoting entrepreneurship   Developing an alternative model for          1996        Experiences of this project were documented,
through entrepreneurial circles.           1 promoting entrepreneurship.            f                  presented and discussed in a National seminar.
It It R                                                  fThe report of this project is available for use by
_______ ______ _______ ______ ______   lt __________ _________ _______ _  the   polytechnics.



22
Study                  l   Purpose as defined in appraisa!        Status                    Impact of Study
redefined              l               l_l
11.   Snap study on development of a system for    Analysis of current employment        1996 (six    Creation of new mechanism and systems for
improvement of Pass-out Employment        situation in selected polytechnics and    states)     enhancing employment of pass-outs.
access.                                   states.
To evolve a system which can be
introduced in polytechnics to improve
l employment access.
12. 1 Internal revenue generation by Technical  To study practices and avenues of IRG     1998        Guidelines and innovative strategies evolved
Institutions in the Southern Region.      in polytechnics.                                      and circulated to polytechnics.
13. l Training needs of polytechnic teachers and    Training needs analysis for improving  1998       Faculty and instructor development plans of
lab technicians in using modern equipment.   laboratory instructions.                          states.
14.   A study of Staff Development Plans        To analyze current staff development      1998        Strategy improvement.
designed, their implementation and effect on   effort.
Polytechnic performance.
15.   Regional Tracer studies on polytechnic pass-  An analysis of pass-out employment and  1998      Data circulated to states as feedback.
outs.                                     career progression.                       d_and_new
16.  A study on policy initiatives in technician    jTo develop strategies to sustain gains  1998   |Draft National Policy formnulated n  e
education.                                for the project and to encourage pursuit             initiatives proposed.
________________________________      __   l  lof  excellence.                                  __L
Note 1: No studies were formally identified in SAR. However, a large number of studies were undertaken/suggested during project implementation.
Note 2: Fourteen studies relevant to different project states have also been completed and their findings utilised in project implementation. Twenty
studies are in progress in areas such as: Multi point Entry and Credit System, Industry - Polytechnic interaction, Women's participation
in technical education, Pass and drop out rates, Continuing education, Working of Curricula and Learning Resources Development Centres, Equipment
utilization, Faculty Development, etc. the results of which would be useful during the future operation stage.
Note 3: In addition to the above studies, 16 National/Regional State level Workshops were conducted, covering all important project components.



23
India: First Technician Education Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
ITEM                Appraisal estimate (US$M)       ActualiLatest estimate (US$M)
Local Costs Foreign Costs  Total  Local Costs Foreign Costs  Total
I) Investment Cost
1.Civil works               103.13       34.38     137.51     126.10       0.00      126.10
2.Furniture                              1.68                  6.30        0.00
3.Equipment                   .          32.57      8         70.75        5.73       76.48
4.Vehicle                    2.47        2.47       4.94       1.24        0.00         2
5.Books                                  1.49       7.43       4.61        0.00 
6. Local Fellowship          5           0.00       5          1.97        0.00       1.97
7. Scholarship for Girls                 0.00         7        0.17         .00
8.Foreign Fellowship         0.38        3.40                              1.12       1.94
9.Local Consultant           1.70        0.00                  0.88        0.00       0.88
10.Foreign Consultant        0.29                    .97       0.08        0.08  
TOTAL                       ,78.3 76.T    276.6               212.92   6.93   219
11) Recurrent costs
11 .Salaries of additional staff    76.96  0.00     76.96     37.95        0.00       37.95
12.Consumable Materials      6.86        1.71       8.57       2.89        0.00       2.89
13.0peration & Maintenance   9.25        0.49       9.74       9.34        0.00       9.34
SUB TOTAL                    93.0        2.20       927       50.t8        0.00      30.8
III) Total base costs (1+11)  272.0     78.87      35.87      263.10       6.93      270.03
IV) Contingencies            9.47        22.37      31.TB      0.0u        0.00       0.0
TOTAL Project costs IlIl to IV   281T.7  101.24    38!271    2      F631   6.93     277U0.
Note: 1) US$1 = Rs.37.81 (average over project period)
2) There will be foreign cost component (indirect cost) in other items like construction, books,
consumable, operation & maintenance etc. However, the precise value of this component is
difficult to estimate and hence has not been indicated.
India: First Technician Education Project
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source               Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actualllatest estimate (US$M)
Local cost Foreign costs  Total  Local costs Foreign costs  Total
IBRD/iDA                                101.24                218.91       6.93
Cofinancing institutions                 0.00       0.00             0.00        0.00
Other external sources                   0.00       0.00             0.00        0.00
Domestic contribution       122.71       0.00           1     44.19        000        44.19
TOTAL                       281.47      101.24     37         263.10       6.93      270.03
Note 1: In the local cost mentioned above (US$261.17million), there would be a component of indirect
foreign cost which can not be estimated precisely, and is hence not indicated in the chart given above.
Note 2: The percentage of IDA contribution in the actual total cost was higher than SAR estimate as a
result of credit amendments.



24
India: First Technician Education Project
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Estimated
India: First Technician Education Project
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement/     Covenant  Present   Original   Revise                    Description
Section          type     status   fulfillment    d                         Of                              Comments
Reference                             date    fulfill t                  Covenant
I                ~~~~~ment
mdaetnet
Credit
Agreement
Schedule 6                  C       11/11/90     _    Agreement to be duly authorised and ratified by
Para 2                                                 project states
Schedule 3        02        C                          TTTIs to generate internal revenue and utilise
Para 1                                                 operating costs
Schedule 3        05        C       1/31/91            Develop and institute Fellowship Training
Para 2                                                 Programme
Schedule 3        04        CP                         Provide staff, funds and facilities for National  NPD, NPIU staffed.
Para 3                                                 Project Directorate, NPIU and key staff in TTTIs  TTTIs engaged consultants
Schedule 3        05        C                          No Polytechnics to be started without AICTE
Para 4                                                 approval
Schedule 3        09        C                          Annual Reviews against monitorable benchmarks
Para 5



25
Project
Agreement                                    _
Schedule 2       05       C                         Provide key additional staff, institute a faculty  97% posts created, 91%
Para I                                              development system                              filled.
Schedule 2       10        C                        Develop and expand program for women
Para 2                         I
Schedule 2       10        C                        Introduce multi-point entry and credit system in  4 states have exceeded
Para 3                                              selected disciplines and polytechnics          targets
Schedule 2       10       C                         Promote Industry-Institute interaction, by creating I.I.
Para 4                                              cells, appointing officers, and developing programs
Schedule 2       02        C      12/31/90          Review and enhance internal revenue generation,
Para 5                                              through various ways and means.
Schedule 2       02       C                         Charge fees to recover full costs for Continuing
Para 6                                              Education Program for industry
Schedule 2       04        C                        Provide grants for maintenance of buildings and
Para 7                                              equipment. Delegate powers to Polytechnic Principals
to undertake annual maintenance
Schedule 2       05        C      12/31/90          Draft annual plans for introducing new centres, staff
Para 8                                             1 development, construction
Schedule 2       09        C      1/31/91           Undertake annual review of project progress against
Para 9                                              monitorable benchmarks
Status: C - Complied with  CP - Complied with partially
Covenant type  02: Financial performance  04: Counterpart funding 05: Management aspects
09: Monitoring, review, reporting 10: Implementation
India: First Technician Education Project
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Complied with all statements.



26
India: First Technician Education Project
Table 12: Bank Resource Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle           Planned                Revised               Actual
Weeks      US $K      Weeks       USK    WeVs 
Through Appraisal             119        200        119         200       126.5    230.2
Appraisal through Board      32.8        50         32.9        50        22.8      43.9
Approval
Board approval through        5          12          5          12        9.7      21.3
effectiveness
Supervision                  280         560        300         600      302.5    609.36
Completion                    24        49.8         24        49.8        20       38.1
TOTAL                        460.8      871.8      480.9       911.8     481.5    942.86



27
India: First Technician Education Project
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
______________  -                            |_______ - _________   -  Performance  Rating
Stage of         Month/   Number   Days   Specialised staff skills  Implemen-   Develop-   Types of problem
project cycle    year       of          in      represented              tation        ment
persons    field                            l status      L objective
Through            6/88
appraisal          4/89
8/89         5        75    Mg, Arch, TE, EP,
10/89                        EqSp
Appraisal      ||  3/90                        1     Ah  TB EP
through Board      5/90         4          -    Mg, Arch, TE. EP
approval         _          I _         _              rc    .           _
Supervision        10/90  f    5          10    Ec, Arch (2), TE, EP          2             1
i  5/91   4,   4      8  7       Ec (2), TE            il      1           1
_____________ |10/91  !!    4             12  ] Ec, TE, HRE, Arch       If     2            1       Staff vacancies
______________ "7/92   I    4                    E 13  ][ Bc, TE, HRE, Arch  I  2           1       Procurement delays
I               I  lO_________   10/92  |    5   Ei 14  j Bc, TE (2), Arch,HRE  j|  2       1     l Minor staff vacancies
____________ jj1/93             3      |  13    Ec, TE (2)              If     2            1    1 Staffvacancies
|______________ "5/93           3         13    Ec, TE (2)              If     2            1       Recruitment delays
| _____ I   ~7/93               3         17    Ec, TE (2)2                                 1     l Admission delays in
If  17 j1 Bc, TB                11     ~ iF                  Bihar
l____________ ll11/93           5          5     Edu (2), Ec, TE, Arch         2            2       Recruitment delays
Ill3/94     4      11  6     Bdu(2), TE, Arch              2            2       Inadequate system
I ______________   R ________   I    __________   If  1 _____________________   11    11__________  11________  m onitoring
(Mid Term          10/94        6     I  30    Edu (2), TE (2), Arch  If       S            S     ISlowimplementation
| Review)       I          I __il __  2151iin four States
ReIew)         If _____2/95     5         8      Edu (2), TE (2), Arch         S      i    S  Teacher vacancies
|9/95   j    3        if  3      TE (2), Arch                  S            S       Delays in
I ______________   I       I_______  __________   JI  Ii  ______________________   I  ll__________    [ _ _ _ I    Procurem ent
______________ If  3/96         3         10   L TE (2), Arch                  S      ||    S       Staff vacancies
|  9/96   1     4     I   0      Mg TE, Edu, Arch      ||      S      jj    S     If Inadequate Financial
l I I l ll ll ll ll ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~monitoring . 
___________  If  3/97   J        3                E 22  11 TB, Edu, Arch       s      L    s    I Procurement delays
I__________ 1f ~"19/97           4     11  13  11 Mg, TE, Arch, EqSp   11      s            s     11 Procurement delays
ll_______ 15/98  jg    4                   7   If Mg, TE (2), Arch, TE        HS            S     If Procurement delays
rCompletion      |  8/98          5        12    Mg, TE (2), Arch, BqSp nHS            I    H
Abbreviations: Ec  Economist; Edu  Education Specialist; TE = Technical Educator; Arch  Architect;
HRE = Human Resource Economist; EP = Education Planner; Mg = Management;
EqSp = Equipment Specialist



The World Bank                                   New Delhi Office       Phone: (I1) 4617241I46g19491
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  70 Lodi Estate-  Cable Address: INTBAFRSAo
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION            New Delhi 3, India     Mailing Address: P.O. BOx 416
Telex 3161493 IBRD IN
Facsimile: (11) 4619393
September 28, 1998
Mr. P. R. Dasgupta
Secretary, Department of Education
Mlinistry of Human Resources Development
Shastri Bhawan
New Delhi 110001
Dear MNIr. Dasgupta:
IN)DL4: Technician Education Project (CR. 2130-IN)
This letter is to express our thanks to you, the National Project Director, the State
Secretaries and Directors of Technical Education, the NPIU, and the SPlIUs for the kind
assistance extended to the MDA mission comprising Messrs. Shrivastava, Saran, and
Chandran during the recent Implementation Completion Report (ICR) preparation
mission for the Technician Education Project, which will close on September 30, 1998. A
copy of the aide-memoire is attached. We expect to send the ICR for your comments by
January 15, 1999. By then, we also expect to receive your completion report, which will
be appended to the ICR. While endorsing the mission's findings I want to complement
your team and the States for the very satisfactory implementation and achievement of the
development objectives of the project.
The mission has informed me about the request of State Secretaries for another
project in technician education. I am informed that the new Policy Framework,
developed by the Expert Group appointed by you, provides the justification for this
investment. I would look forward to the receipt of the Expert Group's Reporr, after it is
approved by the MHRD, and would like to assure you of our support when a formal
request is made.
With best regards
Sincerely,
/nR. Limn
Country Director, India
cc:   Mr. V . Govindarajan, Additional Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs,
Ministry of Finance, North Block, New Delhi
Headquarters: Washington. D.C., U.S.A



INDIA
TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 2130-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
(August 31-September 22, 1998)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.     An IDA mission comprising Messrs. S.K. Shrivastava (Task team leader), Y. Saran
(Education specialist, Consultant) and G.S. Chandran (Technical educator, Consultant)
participated in a mission to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the
Technician Education Project. Messrs. R. Aggrawal (Architect, Consultant) and S. A. A. Alvi
(Equipment Procurement Specialist, Consultant) who were already in the field for the review of
Technician Education II Project (Cr. 2223 - In), provided valuable assistance to the ICR mission
in reviewing the status of civil works and procurement of equipment. The mission wishes to
thank Professor D.P. Agrawal, National Project Director and Joint Educational Advisor
(Technical) of Government of India, Professor K.B.Raina, the Central Project Advisor, National
Project Implementation Unit (NPIU), Professor R.K Mani and their colleagues for their
participation and valuable inputs in discussions with the project States throughout the mission.
2.     Shortly after assembling in New Delhi, the mission discussed the scope of work with the
NPD and NPIU officials. The activities included visits to Kanpur, Goa and Mysore for detailed
discussions at regional meetings with the project States and to get a better picture of project
implementation through field visits to some institutions. The findings of this mission are subject
to further refinement and endorsement by the Bank Management. These are based on the
comprehensive progress report prepared by the NPIU, reports prepared by the State Project
Implementation Units (SPIUs), materials in the project files, mission's observations from the
field trips, discussions with teachers, students and employers, and discussions with various
institutions/ project units including NPIU, SPIUs, Technical Teachers' Training Institutes
(TTTIs) and senior officials of GOI, States and All India Council for Technical Education
(AICTE). The mission gratefully acknowledges generous hospitality and the cooperation and
professional assistance rendered during the mission, in particular, by the States which hosted the
regional meetings.
Objectives
3.      The project supported specific policy reform derived from the National Policy on
Education which was formulated in 1986 (NPE -86) and the resulting Ten Year Technician
Education Investment Program. Its main objective was to make technician education more
responsive to the expansion of science and technology and the needs of the industrial and rural
sector through the introduction of new technology and training approaches in the project States .
More specifically, the objectives were to:



2
(A)   expand the capacity of the technician education system;
(B)   improve the quality of polytechnic programs; and
(C)   enhance the efficiency of management and operation of the polytechnic system.
4.      The Project Objectives were relevant, clearly defined, and their direct linkage to the
national policies (NPE-86 and the Ten Year Investment Program) was very strong. Development
of specific objectives and implementation strategies by the Directorates of Technical Education,
with assistance from TTTIs, contributed to the ownership of the project in most States . Within
the overall scope of its main objectives, the project provided enough flexibility to States to make
necessary changes in various components over the seven year implementation period.
5.     Objective-wise, the appraised financial allocations were - Capacity Expansion 38%
(Rs.2204 million), Quality Improvement 48% (Rs.2805 million) and Efficiency Improvement
14% (Rs.780 million). Initial expenditure for the project was to be incurred through State
resources allocated to them under their respective Five Year Plans and all eligible expenses were
to be subsequently reimbursed by the GOI.
Project Progress Summary
6.     Overall, the Project Review Aides- memoir report steady achievement of physical targets
with accelerated progress during the last 2-3 years. Their status is summarized below:
7.    The Capacity expansion Objective has been fully achieved with some limitations as
follows:
(a) All the planned 67 Post-Diploma Courses and 148 new Diploma Courseshave been
introduced. The problem of non-availability of qualified teachers for some courses
persists and requires AICTE's attention
(b) All 18 new co-educational Polytechnics have been established with 3 in Bihar still
functioning in temporary locations. Civil works for these centers will be completed
by December 1998. Based on NPIU appraisal of all new polytechnics by specialist
teams, corrective action has been taken as required. Against a target of 24 new
women's polytechnics/ wings for women in existing polytechnics, 29 have been
established (UP and Goa have established five more wings for women with their own
resources).
(c) As proposed, 14 polytechnics in the States of Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, and Orissa are
performing the entire range of community polytechnic activities. (many other project
polytechnics are also performing these activities under a GOI scheme).
(d) The Kamataka and UP project management teams have to be complimented for
establishing one polytechnic each for the handicapped in a record time. Faculty
appointments and their specialized training and placement of students will determine
the success of these institutions in future.
(e) Some 8500 persons benefited from the 93 Continuing Education Centers and
Departments, established as planned, under the project. With Gujarat, Karnataka,



3
and Kerala accounting for 80% of participants, other States require to pay more
attention.
(f) 5549 hostel places for boys, 4199 hostel places for girls have been created in project
States; all States except Bihar and Kerala have achieved the targets fully.
8.     The targets for Quality Improvement Objectives have been generally met and even
exceeded for a few sub-components:
(a) All proposed State -level Curriculum Development Centers have been established
and curricula developed for new diploma and post-diploma courses are being
implemented. In addition, revisions of all existing curricula in the project States
have been completed, except for some programs in Goa.
(b) Against the original target of 21 revised to 56 polytechnics where multi-point and
credit system (MPECS) courses were to be introduced, 94 polytechnics now offer
these flexible programs;
(c) All the 7 staff development centers and 202 cells in the polytechnics are functional
and have provided over 100% of planned staff months of training to teaching staff.
Training of laboratory and workshop staff has, however, lagged behind, achievement
of targets being about 75% of the planned staff months of training;
(d) Establishment of new laboratories and modernization of existing laboratories and
workshops has been a slow process due to delays in equipment procurement and
completion of civil works. At present, some 2000 laboratories (against the target of
2816) have been modernized to the extent of about 85% and the remaining,
modernized to about 60%. With the new equipment expected to be delivered by end-
September 1998, all laboratories are expected to be modernized as planned. Of the
planned 1014 new laboratories and workshops, 983 have been established and are
awaiting equipment delivery to be fully operational
(e) All the planned 9 State -level Learning Resource Development Centers (LRDCs) and
254 Learning Resource Utilization Cells have been established. Discussions with
teachers and students confirmed the good quality of the new materials developed by
LRDCs;
(f) After repeated serious concerns conveyed by IDA missions and efforts made by the
MHRD at the highest level to facilitate recruitment of teaching staff by States, 1855
of the 2124 newly created teaching posts have been filled but 484 of these are still
filled on ad-hoc or part-time basis;
(g) Against planned 229 computer centers, 234 have been established in polytechnics;
the only shortfall being in UP where 22 centers (of 80) are yet to be fully operational.
9.     Most of the Efficiency Improvement objectives have been achieved. The status is
summarized below:



4
(a) To facilitate Industry Institute Interaction, all the 8 State -level Centers and 221
polytechnic-level Cells have been established and these are contributing to the
quality of training of students in polytechnics with wide variations in effectiveness.
Some have led to far reaching cooperation through Memorandum of Understanding
with industry, exceeding the expectations in the SAR; while many polytechnics in
less industrialized areas are still having only limited interaction. Industrial visits by
students and teachers, employment through campus interviews, and frequent guest
lectures by experts are on the increase. While no major breakthroughs in employer
participation in management and financing of training activities is visible, except in
industry- sponsored polytechnics, a new policy framework for technician education
(see para. 15 (a) below) developed during the last phases of the project is expected to
accelerate the partnership of Industry in training.
(b) All States had been cautious and some even hesitant in granting autonomy to
polytechnics. After considerable debate on the purpose and scope of autonomous
institutions, 30 polytechnics (including 10 in Kamataka this year) have been made
autonomous against a target of 17. The degree and nature of autonomy, however, is
varied. Some States have given financial or administrative autonomy; while some
others have given limited academic autonomy.
(c) Due to existing policy constraints, efforts for Internal Revenue Generation (IRG)
started late and is still picking up. Due to variations in fee increase and in State
policies in giving incentives to polytechnics and teachers, the progress in project
States is not uniform. Overall, some Rs.300 million have been generated, of which
UP alone accounts for Rs. 1 19 million.
(d) The establishment of all 15 Maintenance Centers in State and Maintenance Cellsin
243 Polytechnics would ensure adequate maintenance and use of equipment in
polytechnics.
(e) Reliable information regarding efficiency indicators -- pass %, dropout and repetition
rates, employment percentage etc. is not available. The NPD has commissioned an
impact study for this purpose. Tracer studies conducted by some TTTIs however
show external efficiency gains in project supported institutions in comparison to non-
project institutions.
Procurement and Staff Appointments
10.    Procurement of works and equipment, and technical assistance (TA) were completed
with considerable delays. Had other States completed these procurements, the way Rajasthan and
Goa did, the project could have closed in 5 years. The issues and problems in procurement are
summarized below.
(a) Civil Works: Of civil works at 253 locations, 8 works (7 in Bihar, and I in Kerala)
would not be completed. Completion time for civil works ranged from 2 to 4 years.
Only 20% of the major civil works were completed on time and about 25% works
were delayed beyond 12 months of contracted completion dates. Majority of works
were entrusted to State Departments (SDs) with some 26% executed by Public
Sector Undertakings (PSUs). In timely completion, PSUs performed better than SDs.



5
Both SDs and PSUs followed in addition to IDA Guidelines, their own procedures
and pace of construction. The State Directorates and SPIUs had no effective control
except to provide funds and then await completion of construction. This was further
compounded by the multiple State level approvals required before inviting bids and
then finalizing a contract. The State -Level Empowered Committees took some time
in being effective in providing the single window clearance and quick decisions to
expedite works.
In the absence of detailed service planning at design stage and the required input
from the end-user, modifications had to be carried out in completed buildings
resulting in add-ons and delays. The delays resulted in substantial cost escalation.
Yet another contributing factor to delays was inadequate provision of fund in some
States (Bihar) leading to phasing of works. Completion of a few major works (2 in
Karnataka, 3 in Orissa, 3 in Rajasthan and 3 in UP) in scheduled time of 12-18
months establishes that delays and resulting cost escalation could be avoided.
(b) Equipment: There were delays in Central level procurement. The central agencies
failed in varying degrees to establish in-time the organization, procedures and
computer system support to match the requirements of the large and varied, time-
bound procurement under the project. States proved effective in procurement of
equipment worth Rs 1486 million (58%), mostly through LCB. Timely preparation
of the equipment specifications, bid packages and institution-wise lists of
requirements would have helped in minimizing some of the delays in procurement.
(c) Staff appointments :In spite of appointment of only 1863 (including 484 ad-
hoc/contract appointments) of 2124 created teaching posts, the MHRD and States
can not be faulted for lack of effort in creating and filling up of teaching posts. In
January 1996 IDA infonned that it intended to stop disbursements if no progress was
reported in defaulting States . Interventions at the highest levels by MHRD,
modifications in recruitment procedures by some States, and continued follow-up by
IDA missions resulted in significant progress. Starting with delays in creation of
posts, others reasons reported for these delays include: (a) lengthy recruitment cycle
and rigidity in procedures for recruitment through Public Service Commissions; (b)
non-availability of qualified staff against reserved seats (SC, ST, and other backward
classes); and (c) time taken for obtaining the AICTE approvals for alternative
qualification of teachers for new programs where candidates with requisite
qualifications were not available in India. These reasons are valid as the polytechnic
system continues to operate with 23% shortages against teaching posts. Problems of
teacher recruitment have to be addressed in future operation of the project and
constitute the single most important reason for grant of autonomy to polytechnics.
(d) Technical Assistance: For consultant services and training, only US$ 4.2 million
were utilized as the States depended mostly on national/local expertise and training
facilities at a highly subsidized cost. Whereas most States made appropriate use of
local consultants and local training for staff, Kerala and Karnataka teachers had
problems in attending programs outside their State due to tedious approval process.
No expatriate consultant was appointed and foreign training fell short of the target of
by 25%. However foreign expertise to some extent was availed by three States (M.P.,
Karanataka and Kerala) under some bi-lateral projects.



6
Implementation Experience
11.    With the exceptioforecruitment of additional staff in the TTTIs, all covenants have
been complied with either fully or in-a manner acceptable to IDA. Overall, the Project maintained
slow progress in the achievement of physical targets in the first 3-4 years with accelerated
progress during the last 3 years. After overcoming the initial delays in the setting up and staffing
of Project Implementation Units at the Center and in the States and adoption of working
procedures, project implementation showed significant improvement. This timely completion,
with one 3 month extension to ensure supply of equipment already ordered, was due to the
competent management by the NPD, the NPIU, and the State implementing agencies. The
allocation of Credit proceeds to States and for the various components followed the criteria
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
12.   If all project components were completed by the closing date the total project cost is
estimated to be Rs. 9685 million (About $280 million), against the original estimate of Rs. 8327
Million ($382 million). The increase in cost in Indian Rupee terms is primarily due to the
addition of the State of Goa in 1993, addition of three more institutions, procurement of
additional modem equipment, and delays in construction.
13.    Despite repeated efforts, provision of additional staff for Technical Teachers Training
Institutes, which played a key role in facilitating project implementation, could not be made.
This deficiency was eventually made up by engaging professionals as local consultants.
14.    Major outcomes of the project, as expressed by sample beneficiary groups of students,
teachers and principals during ICR missions meetings with them, are: modernization of
laboratories /workshops; systematic faculty development; and interaction between industry and
polytechnics, which should all be continued vigorously during the operational phase.
Some Unanticipated Project Results
15.    Some areas where the implementation resulted in unanticipated gains or exceeded SAR
targets include:
(a) a new policy framework, with active participation from the employers, is under
preparation by an Expert-Group appointed by the MHRD. This goes much beyond
the anticipated scope of work of the Industry-Institute Interaction Centers/Cells and
is likely to establish a lasting partnership with the industry in the management and
financing of polytechnics;
(b) women's enrollment in project polytechnics increased from 11% pre-project
average to over 30 %, against the planned project outcome of 15.6 %; in M.P. the
women enrollment increased from 4.3% to 43%. Kerala recorded an increase from
20% to 45%.
(c) with supporting policies and incentives introduced in the States , Intemal Revenue
Generation (IRG) is picking up. In spite of some States still lagging behind,
cumulative IRG of Rs.300 million has been reported and has the potential of
further substantial growth when the proposed Policy Frame Work is in place;



7
(d) TTTIs and the vast pool of professionals available in India were properly utilized
by the NPD and the States in strategy formulation and evaluation studies. Some
examples include tracer studies, evaluation of staff development courses, regular
formative evaluation of project outcomes, preparation of strategy papers, design of
systems, and a series of seminars for senior project staff in States . These
interventions have provided valuable feedback and refined project interventions
which would enhance the sustainability of the project gains.
Bank Performance
16.    The Bank provided effective project preparation assistance to a complex and ambitious
project according to the MHRD's Ten- Year Investment program. In retrospect, however, the
Bank could be flawed for two shortcomings: (a) the preparation team did not realize the need of a
new policy framework at State level, so important to achieve the outcomes clearly defined in the
appraisal report (During the last two years of implementation, MHRD with support from Bank
missions, initiated development of this policy); and (b) the procedures and the capacity of likely
key procurement agencies (DGS&D, public construction agencies) was not carefully assessed
which caused delays in an otherwise well implemented project.
17.   Project implementation was enhanced by Joint Supervision missions with the NPD.
Bank's supervision of the project in earlier stages suffered from frequent changes of task
managers and task teams. With the transfer of the task management responsibility to the New
Delhi Office during the last four years, while the Bank's supervision became more effective the
Bank's reviews for construction and procurement contracts took comparatively longer time
during the transition phase. Overall, the project States considered Bank's role to be helpful and
constructive.
Borrower Performance
18.    Overall, the performance of the Borrower was satisfactory at all times. The Borrower's
project preparation was effective with clearly defined objectives and programs. The project
implementation staff in States and at the NPIU was professionally qualified, and was motivated
and cooperative but lacked experience in project management and implementation of such large,
complex projects. Project information and implementation problems were frankly shared with
the Bank staff. The NPIU was effective in dealing with problems and attempted to provide
solutions in a timely fashion. The NPD, with support from MHRD officials at the highest levels,
provided effective leadership in addressing issues in States (e.g. appointment of teaching staff,
allocation of funds, procurement of equipment) and in providing guidance and policy support.
The Borrower, especially States, could be faulted for inadequate allocation of funds (Bihar),
State Finance asking for additional justification for components already agreed during
negotiations, project fund advances made by GOI being diverted to non-project programs by
States, frequent changes in the senior State officials, delay in creation of key additional staff
positions, their selection and appointment and in providing State level policy support to
implement key project components.
Future Operations
19.   All States informed that project supported/initiated activities have been integrated into
the State budgets. During the operational phase, adequate funds would be available to complete



8
unfinished work (Bihar, Kerala) and to continue quality improvement activities. An operational
plan, with monitoring indicators acceptable to IDA, has been prepared. It includes, among other
details, completion of all civil works by end-December 1998, appointment of remaining teaching
staff in all polytechnics by August 1999, continued support to teacher training, installation and
commissioning of newly received equipment. The operational plans, after discussions with IDA
mission, are being revised and the mission was assured that Bank will receive them by October
10, 1998 along with the Borrower's draft ICR.
20.   The mission was pleased to note the preparatory work in many States, for a follow-up
project being proposed and which is at present under consideration of the MHRD. The proposed
project aims at consolidating the gains of the present project and implementing the policy
measures suggested by an Expert Group. The States are keen on an early decision of the GOI
and the Bank on this proposal. The mission informed the States that this would be brought to the
attention of the Bank Management.
Lessons Learned
21.  Following is a summary of important findings and key lessons leamed:
*  With the current emphasis on decentralization, more Bank attention should be given to
implementers at the State and institute level. Technical assistance should be provided to
these implementers during the project implementation and preparation stages. The focus
of this technical assistance should be on project management and implementation.
*  The availability of professional staff in the NPIU and SPIUs facilitates evaluation and
monitoring of a complex project. The in-service training assessment, formative
evaluation, tracer and impact studies facilitated responsive management of the project.
*  Creation of the National Project Directorate in Department of Education, GOI and the
involvement of the All India Board of Technician Education of AICTE in the project
not only assured that it is consistent with the sectoral policy of the Government, but that
it will be closely monitored at different levels of the government
*  Stakeholders participation in the preparation and implementation of a project would
improve its sustainability and impact.
*  In a complex project covering many States, decentralized procurement would be more
efficient.
*  A more systematic release of project counter-part funds as a line allocation to the project
account, and not lumped with overall departmental allocation in the State budgets, would
have avoided delays in civil works, procurement and staff training.
Time Table for ICR:
22.   The following time table for completion of the ICR was agreed during the mission:
Draft ICR sent to the Borrower ----------------  January 10, 1999
Borrower's draft ICR given to the Bank--------  January 10, 1999
Borrower's comments received on Bank's ICR-- January 25, 1999.



sq~~~~~~~~~~~~g,I  #
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~frr Nvr'rx
f DFrft- Iotoo 
MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
P.R. UPTA                              DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
P.R. DASGUPTA                               GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
SECRETARY                                                   NEW DELHI - 110001
D.O.No.F.8-5/98-WBC                        February 11, 1999
Dear Mr.Henevald,
I would like to thank you for your letter of January 27, 1999 enclosing a
copy of the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the World Bank
Assisted Technician Education Project (CR 2130 IN). We have noted with
satisfaction that the Report has commended the work done by the NPD and his
directorate and NPIU in close interaction with Bank missions to ensure all-
round attainment in the Project. I am also pleased that the report has
highlighted the achievements in many quality components. Especially
noteworthy is the enrollment of women students in technician education, an
objective National Policy on Education -1986 (NPE) has focussed and my
department has been encouraging. Assessment of the key lessons learnt
contained in the report are in tune with our own understanding too. We also
share your satisfaction on the project sustainability in future.
2.   This project has a special design in the sense that almost all the action
and policy decisions were in close coordination with states, which were the
main Borrowers. The Central team through its role of co-ordination and over-
seeing project implementation enabled states to accelerate implementation
receive experiences of other states and overcome perceptional differences of
states' decision-makers from time to time. This has resulted in all round high
achievement of the project (Paras 9-12 and 13 of the draft report). We broadly
agree with the contents of the report.
3.   We note that the borrower performance has been rated as "Satisfactory".
It seems this grading instead of "very satisfactory" is -because of Bank team's
concern on the delay in procurement and appointment of key staff. While we
appreciate the concem, almost full achievement on these accounts after an
initial slow start is the testimony of the desire of the borrower to complete the
commitments.
4.   Certain aspects of this project relate to policy changes and I am pleased
that most of the states have taken positive actions and are sustaining them in
future. The policy change component such as autonomy and IRG, etc., was not
explicitly articulated in the initial project document. Steps taken first to
2J-



EDUCATION SECRETARY                                    Continuation Sheet_
::2::
articulate them and create an environment for change in States led too higher
than targeted achievements.  On account of market place demand and
interdisciplinary nature of new technology programmes, the availability of
teachers for such courses started during the project was somewhat restnctive.
In this context, I may mention that 91% attainment in filling up of these newly
created posts and bringing the existing vacancies in most of the states to a level
conforming to AICTE norms or better than AICTE norms is praiseworthy by all
accounts. Development in educational technology, which would shape the
future teaching and learning environment, emphasizes student- centered
learning, bringing down the students/teachers ratios hitherto prevalent. You
may also appreciate that targets for key-staff were laid at the time of the design
of project when the new concepts were not in place. With the concurrence of
the bank team, some targets have been re-defined. In many places such as in
TTTIs, a large number of vacancies on availability of right kind of people with
desired skill remained unfilled. However, TMTIs were allowed use of long and
short-term consultants, which helped them to respond to the Project
Implementation. In light of these observations, you may like to review the
grding of the borrower, which has been rated as satisfactory in draft ICR
report.
4.   We place on record our deep sense of appreciation to the World Bank for
the support provided to the project. The Bank also extended expert advise and
administration assistance during the project implementation. In particular, we
acknowledge the cooperation extended by the leaders of World Bank mission
team and members and particularly to Prof. S. K. Shrivastava who was helpful
and co-operative at all stages of the project.
With regards,
Yours ncerely,
(P.R. Dasgupta)
Mr. Ward Heneveld
Education Sector Team Leader for India
World Bank
70, Lodi Estate
New Delhi-1 10 003.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(ICR)
Technician Education Project
(Credit: 2130-IN)
FEBRUARY 19,1999
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
MINISTRY OF HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
(DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION)
NEW DELHI.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT (CR 2130 IN)
1.  PREFACE
1.1 Since the last two decades, Indian industry has been expressing a need to review and
re-examine technician manpower development in the country. These needs got
accentuated in the wake of liberalisation, globalisation and the rapid technological
changes in industry in the late eighties. Further, with additional focus on rural
development the need to provide greater access for technician education to rural and
disadvantaged youth gained prominence.
1.2 In the backdrop of these interests, the necessity to radically reform and rebuild the
technician education sector became imminent, and a Technician Education Project
was shaped to fulfil this necessity and develop a market driven system.
2.  PROJECT  OBJECTIVES
2.1 The National Policy on Education (NPE) 1986, and the Programme of Action there on
provided a policy framework for programmes and thrusts to be initiated in the sector of
education.  In the technical education sub-sector, a number of new initiatives
emanated from the policy framework. These initiatives aimed at improving the quality
of technicians, ensuring high employability for them, and enhancing access to the
system for deserving candidates from rural and disadvantaged group. Legislation
was also enacted for setting up an All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE)
with a National Board of Accreditation (NAB) with wide statutory powers and
purposeful roles.
2.2 In 1988, the Government of India (GOI) with the assistance of the Technical
Teachers' Training Institutes (TTTIs) and State Governments, developed a 10-year
Investment Plan for technician education as a follow-up of NPE 1986 for improvement
of AICTE approved government and government-aided polytechnics. A project in
support of the 10-year investment plan was formulated and IDA assistance was
requested. This was designed as a state sector project.
2.3 The goals of the project, in summary, were:
(a) introducing policy reforms to promote programme and management flexibility
in the institutions and the system, granting autonomy to selected institutions,
and gradually introducing and enhancing income generation in institutions.
(b) increasing educational opportunities for women and other disadvantaged
groups, strengthening regional resource institutions like the TTTIs, and
developing mutually supportive linkages with industry.
(c) offering new programmes in polytechnics in emerging technologies and
reinforcing critical academic units in institutions.
2.4  To achieve these long- term goals, three project objectives were formulated which,
in brief, were:
2.4.1 Capacity Expansion : introducing new programmes in emerging technologies,
starting new polytechnics in strategic locations, establishing continuing and distance



education programmes, providing opportunities for enhanced participation of women
and services for the underprivileged and the physically disabled.
2.4.2 Quality Improvement: to be achieved by strengthening teacher education and
training, establishing state infrastructures for faculty and staff development,
curriculum development, learning resources development and utilisation,
modernising laboratories and workshops and encouraging internal revenue
generation.
2.4.3 Efficiency Improvement: incorporating the improvement in the management of
technical education system of states, granting autonomy to selected institutions and
establishing mutually supportive industry- institute linkages and programmes.
2.5  The project objectives were transformed into academic, physical and financial
targets.
2.6  To accomplish these objectives an implementation structure was established. A
National Project Directorate was established at the Ministry of Human Resource
Development, Government of India, with a senior officer of the level of Joint
Secretary as National Project Director (NPD), to take major project related decisions
at the national level and generally oversee project implementation. Under the NPD,
National Project Implementation Unit (NPIU) was created for co-ordination,
monitoring and for providing guidance to the states in all aspects of the project.
Similarly at the state level, each project state created a State Project Implementation
Unit (SPIU). Also, Polytechnic Project Implementation Units (PPIUs) were set up in
each project polytechnic. In addition a close co-ordination, mechanism among NPIU,
SPIUs and PPIUs and between the NPIU and SPIUs with the State Directorates of
Technical Education was put in place. The TTTIs, as resource institutions, were to
offer staff development and academic support.
2.7  The project covers 9 states, 4 TTTIs and the NPIU. A total of 279 AICTE approved
polytechnics benefited from the project. Gains to 1,27,970 regular students in a year
were anticipated.
3. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1  After a rather slow beginning, the project progressed rapidly and has accomplished
almost all the laid down targets. Brief summary of achievement is as follows
3.2  NEW  INSTITUTIONS AND PROGRAMMES
18 new co-ed polytechnics as against 17 targeted, 19 new women polytechnics
targeted and 9 women's wings as against 5 targeted have been established.
Further, 215 new diploma and post diploma courses have been introduced of which
120 are in new and emerging technology areas (Annexe - I).
3.3  CONTINUING & DISTANCE EDUCATION
Targeted Continuing Education Centres and Cells have been established during the
project. 83 polytechnics have undertaken continuing education activity (Annexe - I).
Nearby industry benefited from these services to the extent of training more than
8900 functionaries. The state of Gujarat has introduced a distance education
programme to benefit 4500 fresh students and industrial workers per year.



3.4  BENEFITS TO DISADVANTAGED GROUPS
3.4.1 One remarkable achievement has been the enhancement in women enrolment in
different states which varies currently from 16.5% to 45%, far exceeding the project
target of 15% . The drop out rate of women students has reduced to an average of
3% from about 5%. A total of 28 new polytechnics and wings exclusively for women
have been established in the states. In addition, 148 programmes for women have
been introduced in institutions (Annexes - I & II).
3.4.2 Two national seminars on the difficulties faced by women students and a number of
training programmes to enhance gender sensitivity and develop strategies for
increasing women's participation have been organised successfully by the TTiIs and
the states.  Studies on the status of women students and teachers and their
relationships with male counter-parts have also been undertaken.
3.4.3 A major concern among polytechnics has been the gainful employment of women
pass-outs.  Attempts are in progress to reach an understanding with selected
industry on this aspect. Many polytechnics have undertaken entrepreneurial training
of women, with the assistance of TTTis and funding agencies (Annexe - Ill).
3.4.4 Project states report averages within their institutions of 20% to 67% of rural
students (Annexe - II). Further, 7 co-ed polytechnics and 7 women's polytechnics
and wings have been newly started in rural and tribal areas. States like Madhya
Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh implement special bridge
programmes to help rural students to improve their academic performance.
3.4.5 Community development wings have been established in 11 polytechnics. Out of a
initial total target of 14, 3 wings were transferred to the direct central assistance
scheme of the Government of India midway during the project in Goa.
3.4.6 A national initiative on integration of the physically disabled with the mainstream in
technician education is being formulated by the Central Government.  Two
polytechnics, exclusively for the physically disabled have been established in
Mysore in Karnataka and Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh and currently offer five diploma
programmes. These polytechnics have attracted the attention of other states which
have initiated attempts to improve facilities and have taken appropriate steps to
enhance enrolment of the disabled students (Annexe - IV).
3.5  STAFF RECRUITMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
3.5.1 Key Additional Staff: Against key additional staff provision of 2333 teachers and
technical and executive staff, 2321 positions have been created, of which 2115, or
about 91% have been filled, through special and innovative measures adopted by
states like teacher recruitment councils, contract and consultant appointments, apart
from the normal Public Service Commission approach (Annexe - I). AICTE and
Govt. of India supported these steps by framing qualifications and experience for
teacher recruitment in some new programmes. The teacher-student ratio in all
project states except Karnataka is equal to or better than AICTE norms (Annexe - II).
3.5.2 Conceived as a crucial pre-requisite to project success, a model which includes
continuous cycles of training needs identification, planning, implementation and
review of staff development has been successfully adopted by polytechnics with the
help of TTTIs.



3.5.3 Out of project target of 20775.5 person months, the achievement has been 21043
person months, and more than 7900 teachers have been trained (Annexe - V). The
diversities of teacher development programmes and strategies are provided in
Annexe - VI.  Further, 127 teachers from polytechnics and the TTTIs have been
trained abroad in new technologies, education technology and in education
management.
3.5.4 The deployment of trained teachers to appropriate positions  to utilise their
capabilities to the maximum possible extent, has been engaging the minds of project
managers. There are evidences of very useful contributions by trained teachers at
the state level and in polytechnics.
3.5.5 To sustain staff development on a continuing basis, states have agreed to make
adequate financial  provisions.  Industries have come forward to offer training
facilities to the teachers to gain experience in industrial operations. The TTTIs have
prepared an operational framework for ensuring continuous staff development
services to polytechnics.
3.6  CURRICULUM   DESIGN &  IMPLEMENTATION   AND   PROGRAMME
FLEXIBILITY
3.6.1 All states have established curriculum development centres which engage in the
review of existing curricula and the design of curricula for new programmes. Further,
during curriculum design, a focal effort has been made by all states, with the help of
industry, to enhance the practical content and provide opportunities for students to
develop learning to learn skills. States like Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh
have ventured into innovative approaches in curriculum design, such as competency
and skill based curricula. These curricula are under practice.
3.6.2 State Boards of Technical Education and Curriculum Development Centres are
actively engaged in monitoring curriculum implementation on a continuous basis
through visits to and reports from institutions.
3.6.3 Of great importance has been the over achievement in the introduction of course
and programme flexibility through multi-level entry and credit approaches in many
polytechnics of Gujarat (21), Rajasthan (18) and Madhya Pradesh (34) and in
selected polytechnics in other states (11) (Annexe - II). This has helped to reduce
drop-out rates and has provided additional learning options and opportunities to
students to learn at their preferred pace.
3.7  LEARNING RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT AND UTILISATION CENTRES
3.7.1 Each project state has set up a Learning Resource Development Centre (LRDC) for
developing a variety of learning resources like textbooks, workbooks, laboratory
manuals, OHPs and 35 mm slides, and video programmes for the benefit of student
learning. The LRDCs in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Goa and the
four TTTIs have helped create a culture of regular media usage in polytechnic
classrooms. The LRDCs in different states are networking with each other on a
regional basis and supplying learning resources to institutions in other states.
Learning Resources Utilisation Centres (LRUCs) exist in 254 polytechnics and keep
track of media acquisition and utilisation. In addition, self learning by students from
libraries and LRUCs is being promoted through opportunities provided by teachers
and in curricula (Annexe - VIli).



3.8   MODERNISATION OF PHYSICAL RESOURCES
3.8.1 Equipment: The total outlay of Rs. 2410.400 million has been utilized by the project
states in modernising 2816 laboratories. In few cases, purchases were adversely
affected due to the adoption of time consuming procedures and sometimes because
of circumstances beyond the control of the procuring agency, but remedial action
was taken and supplies within the project period ensured in almost all procurement
cases.
The challenge of identifying equipment requirement from curricula needs and the
selection from available equipment for modernisation of laboratories was fulfilled with
the cooperation of polytechnic teachers and the TTTIs.
Equipment procured, have been installed, commissioned and  transformed  into
experimental set-ups with laboratory manuals to facilitate student practice and
learning. A sample list of the equipment acquired for modernisation is given at
Annexe - VI II.
3.8.2 Computer Facilities : A focal attempt was made in 236 project polytechnics to
enhance computer facilities (Annexe - I). The presence of new computer centres
with requisite hardware and software has resulted in considerable learning gains for
students. The use of computer centres for institutional information systems, student
assessment, office administration and continuing education is rapidly increasing.
3.8.3 Furniture And Vehicles : Acquired furniture has been put to use in classrooms,
libraries, laboratories and hostels. The acquisition of vehicles to be used for student
training, interaction with industry and other project activities is complete.
3.8.4 Libraries : Institution libraries have been replenished and strengthened with the
addition of books in new technologies and for continuing education.  Many
polytechnics have also obtained learning resources for LRUCs to use in classrooms
and for students self learning. Librarians have been trained to improve library
services.  Book banks have been established in almost all institutions as an
assistance to students from an economically weak background.
3.8.5 Civil Works And Construction: Construction was planned at 257 sites of which all,
except 4 sites in Bihar, have been completed. Construction at two out of these four
sites is almost complete. The state of Bihar has assured completion of incomplete
buildings after the project closure from their own plan funds.
Appropriate steps were taken to ensure completion and quality of construction
through site visits by officials of NPIU, the World Bank consultant architect, a
committee of state officials, and by using specialist consultants at crucial sites. As a
consequence, 5609 hostel places were created for male students and 4199 for
women students; 2155 residences have been constructed for faculty and staff apart
from many academic buildings. Further, 19 new Women's Polytechnic buildings and
9 Women's Wings have been completed. The total allocation has been utilized by
states and TTTIs.
3.8.6  Maintenance Of Physical Facilities : As an important step, polytechnics have
started maintenance of their own buildings and equipment. In consequence, 254
maintenance cells and centres (against targets of 258 cells and centres) have



been established in states thereby almost achieving targets.  Laboratory and
workshop staff have been trained extensively in maintenance (Annex-I).
3.9   INDUSTRY - INSTITUTE - INTERACTION
3.9.1  A special drive during the project led to a close cooperation between industry and
institutions in all states. Industrial contributions to polytechnics occur in polytechnic
management, curriculum design and delivery, training of students and teachers and
the extension of shopfloors for student practice. 85993 students have benefited
from industrial visits, 53804 through lectures by industrial experts, and the industry
provided more than 425 project work opportunities to students (Annexe-IX).
3.9.2  Project states have created Industry-Institute-Interaction Cells in 221 polytechnics,
and 8 centres exist in project states (Annexe - I). 204 Training and Placement
Officers are in position.  The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and the
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) have promoted
institutional interaction with industry through MOUs and regular meetings with some
states and institutional officials. In few polytechnics there are examples of industry
assisting the management and resource mobilisation of institutions.
3.9.3  One of the main concerns of the project has been the employability of pass-outs.
States and polytechnics are developing mechanisms for providing employment
access to students. As a result, 12486 students benefited from campus interviews
conducted by industry during the project. In addition, many states have promoted
entrepreneurial development of students through well designed programmes and
co-curricular initiatives.
3.10  INSTITUTIONAL  AUTONOMY
3.10.1 Against a project target of 17, project achievement has been 30 institutions
(Annexe - II). Multiple models and varying degrees of autonomy are in evidence in
these institutions. Autonomous institutions normally design and implement their
own programmes, award certificates to students, and ensure significant industrial
representation in their governing agencies.  Some institutions also possess a
significant degree of  administrative and financial autonomy. It is observed that
autonomous polytechnics develop close linkages with industry and embark on
attempts to improve the quality of passouts and academic services.
3.10.2 With the advent of comprehensive or multi dimensional autonomy, institutions
can generate and mobilise resources and invest them in polytechnic
operations and development.
3.10.3 All project states have indicated their intention to extend autonomy to more selected
institutions in future. While in the initial stages there was a reluctance on the part of
states to grant autonomy to deserving institutions, there was a positive change in
the thinking of states towards the later half of the project period. This change
was facilitated through major National Seminars organised by the GOI and NPIU
with the help of TTTIs, and the discussion which took place during Joint Review
Missions of World Bank and GOI. Many institutions have expressed a desire for a
higher degree of participation in decision making.
3.11   RESEARCHES  AND  STUDIES: 131 researches and studies were conducted
during the course of the project period on various issues related to strategy design,
project implementation and outcomes (Annexe - X). A project impact study is in



progress. The findings from these researches were normally used by TTIs, state
governments and the NPIU to improve or introduce remedial measures and new
initiatives. In addition, quarterly formative evaluation of the project was done by
TTTIs. Benchmarking of successful innovations through the diffusion of information
during the 13 National/Regional workshops and seminars held in the project period
are also in evidence.
3.12  INTERNAL REVENUE GENERATION
3.12.1 States have indicated a readiness to encourage polytechnics to generate income
through a variety of means - student fees, continuing education and services to
industry and community. Policies formulated in most project states now permit
institutions to invest income so generated for purposes of institutional upkeep and
development. This has resulted in polytechnics in states generating more than
Rs. 311.620 million during the project period (Annexe - Xl).
3.12.2 Many states have enhanced student fees in polytechnics during the project.
3.12.3 The project progress and outcomes have resulted in a situation in which stake-
holders and the industry are willing to invest in the future of technician education.
With  reinforcing   of industry-institute linkages and increasing involvement of
industry in polytechnic services and activities, financial investments by industry
towards polytechnic development has become a reality to-day.
3.13  ACHIEVEMENTS AGAINST FINANCIAL TARGETS
3.13.1 The revised project allocation of Rs 9991.118 million was fully utilized by the end of
the project in all states. In fact there has been 2% excess expenditure in the project
for which additional allocations have been requested by the Government of India.
Reimbursement of expenditure has been occurring regularly and reached the
targeted amount within a stipulated time after the project completion (Annexe - XII).
4.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROIECT
4.1   Through an effective monitoring system  involving National Project Directorate,
backed up by dedication and perseverance of project states, SPIUs, NPIU and
institutions, the academic, physical and financial targets have been almost fully
achieved.
4.2   Some major problems encountered and overcome during the project are mentioned
below:
(a) OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES: World Bank norms and procedures relating to
construction, equipment procurement and reimbursement required repeated
clarification to states.
(b) EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT : The central procurement agencies had rather
prolonged procedures which resulted in delays in supply in many cases, while
states appeared to manage local procurement more effectively.
(c) RECRUITMENT OF FACULTY : Long cycles of recruitment time in states
resulted in the slow filling up of posts initially, but were made up by innovative
alternatives in the later stages of the project.



(d) BUDGETARY ALLOCATIONS: Changes in state priorities due to unforeseen
events resulted in deficient financial position in states when funding was
needed.  However, states  made up for such inadequate provisions at
subsequent stages.
(e) FACULTY AND STAFF TRANSFER: Transfer of key faculty, staff and
administrators disturbed project implementation on some occasions.
(f) PROJECT CO-ORDINATION: The interdependence between project elements
was overlooked in a few locations resulting in delayed utilisation of resources
like equipment procured could not be commissioned due to want of laboratory
space, or laboratory space remained unutilised due to delayed procurement.
4.3 Remedial measures evolved to face difficulties during project period provided useful
lessons and experience for future project management.
5. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
5.1 The following steps have been taken to ensure sustained gains and impact of the
project
(a) States have committed themselves to sustain various support infrastructures
developed under the project and have decided to make appropriate financial
provision. They have also expressed their intentions to continue elements like
linkages with industry, pursuit of planned staff development, software support to
polytechnics, and the introduction of new technology programmes as and when
needed (Annexe - XIV).
(b) The NPIU and TTTIs would be holding state level workshops after the project
period for promoting diffusion of change, and for benchmarking of successful
innovations observed during the project period.
(c) A future project in technician education is under preparation to continue
development in an integrated manner.
6. BANK PERFORMANCE
6.1  The Bank task team's contributions during project conception, design, planning and
implementation and their visits to various sites and frequent interaction with central
and state government  officials has significantly helped in making the project
implementation a success.
6.2  Familiarity with the Indian psyche and the working conditions enabled the World Bank
mission to handle implementation and progress impediments with great
understanding and adopt a supportive role. This accelerated clearance of various
proposais and project progress and ensured target accomplishment. Training of
project functionaries by Bank officials in conjunction with the NPIU at critical junctures
facilitated the states to follow Bank procedures. In all, the excellent support provided
by the Bank, its mission members, the architect and other  officials  must be
acknowledged.



7. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
7.1  While some implementation difficulties were encountered  in the initial stages,
borrowers learnt from experience during the project and ensured outcomes and
achievements.
7.2  Governmental support was much more forthcoming as the project progressed.
Empowered Committees in states took quick major decisions and ensured adequate
financial allocations. State level mechanism closely monitored the project and
worked for achieving targets.
7.3  The TTTIs extended wide ranging support to academic components and helped
polytechnics in ensuring learning gains to students. They were also instrumental in
enhancing faculty and staff capabilities (Annexe-XIII).
7.4  The National Empowered Committee provided consistent support to the project and
directions for accelerating project progress. The National Project Directorate guided
and facilitated the project implementation at all stages and monitored project events
very closely with NPIU. It enabled the states in overcoming obstacles which impeded
developments.
7.5  One major outcome in the project was the teamwork exhibited by borrowers at
different levels and locations. Consensus about the strategies and measures was
visible right through the project in all activities.
7.6 Most of all, the commitment of polytechnic teachers and staff towards ensuring project
success must be commended.
8. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
8.1  As mentioned earlier, the achievement of academic, physical and financial targets is
total and complete.
8.2  Of great significance is the over achievement in the sphere of women's participation.
The systemic  changes that have emerged in curriculum  development and
implementation, in industry-institute linkages, and in polytechnic income generation
have to be mentioned. The massive staff development effort which has been
undertaken and completed successfully is another major achievement.
8.3  In spite of the enormity of the task of modernising 2816 laboratories in all project
polytechnics and constructing new buildings at 257 sites, successful strategies
ensured accomplishment.
9. FUTURE OPERATIONS
9.1  Of the 10 year investment plan proposed for technician education in the wake of NPE
1986, about 3 years are still left for continuing the pursuit of excellence. The State
Governments have expressed intentions to continue to provide policy support for
various initiatives taken during the project.  They have also committed to sustain
various support infrastructure, developed during the project. Preparatory work for a
follow up project is in progress in many states. The proposed project aims at



consolidating the gains of the present project and implementing measures to give
further thrust to technician education system.
9.2  States are also considering the extension of successful innovations to other
polytechnics. A benchmarking strategy is being formulated by the NPIU and TTTIs.
The sustenance of project gains is in the minds of all project states.
10. KEY LESSONS LEARNT
10.1 This was a multi-dimensional project experience. Implementing multi dimensional
educational change of such enormity necessitates the presence of state policy
support. Future projects will gain advantage from the experiences of this project.
10.2 Project experience indicates the necessity of a variety of preparatory actions before
implementation, the most crucial of which is the involvement of project stake-
holders, beneficiaries and implementers from the design and planning stage itself.
The early establishment of consensus among these interest groups will speed up
project progress and reduce project time requirements.
10.3 While it is necessary to promote a common frame of action in projects of this kind,
and a common purpose and integrated action, the necessity to provide freedom to
implementing agencies to enable them to address local requirements without
compromising project purpose seems desirable. A certain degree of decentralisation
and flexibility to promote decision making at institutional levels needs to be
considered in future project designs.
10.4 Documentation of experiences and efforts has occurred at all stages in the project,
which must be transferred into events of learning for all concerned parties in future
projects.



ANNEXE-I
NEW FACILITIES DEVELOPED
S.NO.        PARAMETERS               BIHAR       GOA    GUJARAT  KARNATAKA   KERALA               M.P.    ORISSA   RAJASTHAN            U.P.
T    A    T    A    T    A    T           A       T    A    T    A    T    A    T          A       T    A
1   Project polytechnics          25   25    4    4    22   22   39         39     30   30   40   40   12   13   21          21     86   86
2   New co-ed polytechnics         3    3   NIL  NIL   1    1    2           2      1    1    6    6    0    1    2          2       2    2
3   New women polytechnics         1    1   NIL  NIL  NIL  NIL   1           1      1    1    8    8    2    2    2          2       4 4
4   New women's wings             NIL  NIL   1    1    4    4   NIL    NIL    NIL  NIL  NIL  NIL  NIL  NIL  NIL    NIL    NIL   4
5   Hostel places for men students  2    200   60   60   880  880  300    300    500  400  810  810  166  166  168    168   2625 2625
6   Hostel places for women students   200  200  60   60   450  450  444    444    440  440  433  433  625  625  270    270    1277 1361
7   New faculty and staff residences  92   81   NIL  NIL  216  216   37     37      77   77   679  679  158  158   89        89    818  818
8   Key additional faculty        244  247  51   51   384  292  167    148          95   93   319  298  199  185  186    170    479  453
Key additional staff           43   30    8    8    46   40   11                 8    8    16   14   20   16   26        23      31   30
10 New diploma programmes for co-ed
students                       6    6    9    9    8    8    8          8       5    5    6    6    24   24    9         9      73   73
11 New post diploma programmes for
co-ed students                 6    6    1    1    21   21    1         1       3    3   NIL  NIL  12   12    3          3      20   20
New diploma and post diploma
12 programmes exdlusively for women
students                      15   15   4    4    16   16    7          7       5    5    34   34   15   15    9         9      43   43
13  Additlonal Student Seats      1690 1690 1030 1030 2235 2235 1490   1490   1830 1830 4755 4755 1825 1825 1360   1460   8260 8260
14  CD Centres                      1    1   NILi         1    1    1        1       1    1    1    1    1    1    1          1      1    1
15  Computer Centres               17   17   4    4    26   26    6          7      24   29   40   40   12   13   20         20      80   80
16  LRDCs                           1    1 1        1    1  1  1             1       1    1    1    1    1    1    1          1      1    1
17  LRUCs                          15   15   4    4    21   21   37         37      29   29   40   40   12   12   16         16      80   80
18  CE Centres                      1    1   NIL  NIL   1    1    1          1       1    1    1    1    1    1    3          3      1    1
19  CE Departments                  4    4    4    4    21   21    6         6      29   29    5    5    3    3   NIL    NIL         10   11
20  1-1-l Centres                   1    1   NIL   1    1    1    1          1       1    1    1    1    1    1   NIL    NIL          1    1
21  1-1-l Cells                     8    8    4    4    21   21   18         18     29   29   40   40   12   12    8          8      81   81
22  Staff Development Centres       1    1   NIL  NIL    I    I       INSPIU        1    1    1    1    1    1    1          1       1    1
23  Staff Development Cells        25   25   NIL   5    21   21        IN CDC       29   29   40   40   12   12   NIL    NIL    76   76
24  Malntenance Centres and Cells  25    25     4    4    21   21   38 |   38       11   11   45   40   13   13   20         20      81   82
T -Target                                   A - Achievement                                       CD- Curriculum Development
1-14 - Industry-InstItute-Interaction       LRDCs - Learning Resource Development Centres         CE - Continuing Education
LRUCs - Leaming Resource Utillsatlon Centres



ANNEXE -11
QUALITY INDICATORS
BiIHAR       GOA         GUJARAT    KARNATAKA    KERALA              M.P.       ORISSA   RAJASTHAN         U.P.
COMPONENTS                                                               ___                        __                 __
T     A     T      A      T       A     T       A      T     A      T     A      7     A     T      A     T     A
%age of existing curriculae reviewed  100   100   100   100    100    100   100    100    100   100   100   100   100  100   100   100  100   100
New curriculae developed             1 8    1 8    1 1    1 1   21     21    36      36     1 7    1 7    1 8    1 8    27   27    1 6    1 6   21    21
Contact days per semester            90    90    75    75       90     80    90      90     90    90    90    77    90   90    90    75   90    82
ndstudent projects undertaken by     -    15      -    50       -      46     -    25        -    32      -    60      -    74     -    127   -    NIL
Average student drop out rate        1 0    2     1      1   MPECS            2       6      3     3    0.5   3.49    5    4  MPECS ~    15    4.2
Average %age of rural students       65    67    60    60       40     35    22      20     60    60    1 0   19.5   551 52    25    37   70    64
Average %age of SC/ST categories     24    24    25    10       21    37    20       23     12    45    33    36    38   33    28   24.3  20   22.6
%age of women students               18a  16.5   20    26       1 5    26    25    28.4   25    45    25    45    27   29    25    28   22   22.6
Teacher-student ratio               1:15 1:13.3  1:15  1:13.5  1:15   1:12  '1:15  1.17.3  1:15  1:14.7  1:15  1:12.6  1:15  1:12   1:15  1:10  1:15  1:10.6
Polytechnics with programme flexibility    3  3   1      1      21     21     1       1      2     2      5    34    NIL  NIL   16    118    4        4
Polytechnics awarded autonomy *      1 2    7    NIL   NIL      1       1    NIL    10    NIL   NIL I1          7      1    3    NIL   NIL   2        2
Time taken to publish student results,  4   5     6      6      3       3     6      6       6     8      4     6      4    6    4-8   5-6    6       8
weeks__                                      ___                 _ _  _ _ __ _ _ __                                                 _ _
%age of students employed in their field  95    95    90    90  100    100   10       5     80    80    90    80    75   43    90    90   90    85
T- Target          A - Achievement
MPECS - Refers to Multi Point Entry and Credit System which, when introduced, tends to reduce the drop out rate to negligible value. MPECS has been introduced in almost
all project polytechnics in the specific states against which it is mentioned.
*Time taken to publish results indicates the average duration on weeks between and of technical examinations and the date of publishing results.



ANNEXE - III
STRATEGIES ADOPTED BY PROJECT STATES TO ENHANCE WOMEN'S
PARTICIPATION
* RESERVATION OF SEATS FOR WOMEN STUDENTS IN CO-ED
POLYTECHNICS: Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and
Rajasthan have introduced reservation varying from 20% to 30%.
* NUMBER OF POLYTECHNICS STARTED EXCLUSIVELY FOR WOMEN: 19
new women polytechnics and 9 wings for women in co-ed polytechnics have
been established offering on an average 4 courses in each new polytechnic and
2 in each new wing.
* PUBLICITY ABOUT COURSES, CAREER GROWTH AND EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITIES THROUGH MASS MEDIA: Video programmes were
developed and exhibited to prospective students in schools. Brochures and
catalogues about technician prospects were widely circulated.
. PRE-ENTRY COUNSELLING MEETINGS WITH PROSPECTIVE WOMEN
STUDENTS AND THEIR PARENTS: Visits by polytechnic faculty have been
organised to create awareness and to encourage school students to opt for
polytechnic education.
. SPECIAL COURSES FOR REGULAR WOMEN STUDENTS: Courses like
interior decoration, computer aided costume design and dress making, beauty
culture, architecture, office management, electronics and computer application
have been introduced in polytechnics.
. PROVISION OF HOSTEL ACCOMMODATION/TRANSPORT FACILITIES
FOR DAY SCHOLARS : Efforts have been made to provide hostel facilities to
about 30% of women students and to provide transport to maximum number of
daily commuters.
* SCHOLARSHIPS AND FREESHIPS:  Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala,
Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Uttar Pradesh provide scholarships to a large
number of students, while Rajasthan provides free tuition to all women students.
* STRATEGIES DRAWN FROM RESEARCH STUDIES, SEMINARS AND
WORKSHOPS: Conduct research, organise workshops and seminars and
develop strategies based on the outcomes of these, for enhancing participation
of women.
* GENDER SENSITIVITY TRAINING IN SELECTED INSTITUTIONS: Organised
specially at the TTTIs for male Principals and faculty of co-ed polytechnics and
officers from State Directorates to create awareness about special needs of
women.



* GUIDANCE/ COUNSELLING CELL TO PROVIDE ACADEMIC ASSISTANCE:
Guidance/counselling is given to students on choice of courses, career
opportunities and personal concerns and issues.
* ENTREPRENEURIAL SKILL DEVELOPMENT AND OPPORTUNITIES TO
INTERACT WITH WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS: Special efforts have been
made to empower women to become self-employed.
* PLACEMENT SERVICES PROVIDED : Campus interviews organized for
getting employment to passout.
* INITIATIVES TAKEN TO PERSUADE INDUSTRIES TO PROMOTE
EMPLOYMENT OF WOMEN PASSOUTS: Workshops, seminars and
discussions have been organised with the Confederation of Indian Industry and
other organisations.
. CONTINUING EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOMEN PASSOUTS
Courses have been organised for updating/retraining of working women.



ANNEXE - IV
FACILITIES FOR PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED
TWO INSTITUTIONS ESTABLISHED EXCLUSIVELY FOR THE
DISABLED AT MYSORE (KARNATAKA) AND KANPUR (UTTAR
F DISABLED   CATEGORIES   CURRENTLY   ADMITTED   -
ORTHOPAEDICALLY DISABLED, DEAF AND DUMB.
[ ADMISSIONS ON ALL INDIA BASIS THOUGH 50% SEATS
AT MYSORE INSTITUTE  RESERVED FOR  KARNATAKA
COURSES CURRENTLY OFFERED - COMPUTER SCIENCE/ ENGG.,
ARCHITECTURE AND COMMERCIAL PRACTICE WITH MORE COURSES
PLANNED FOR FUTURE.
ACADEMIC AUTONOMY AT BOTH INSTITUTES THOUGH STUDENT
CERTIFICATION CURRENTLY BY BOARD OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION.
FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE AUTONOMY GRANTED TO KANPUR
INSTITUTE AND PARTIAL FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
AUTONOMY TO MYSORE INSTITUTE.
PHYSICAL STRUCTURE OF BOTH BUILDINGS ALLOWS EASY
MOBILITY BETWEEN CLASSROOMS, LABORATORIES AND
LABORATORY EQUIPMENT DESIGNED FOR OPERATION BY
THE DSABLED WITH MINIMUM DIFFICULTY. 
[NATURAL LIGHTING ARRANGEMENTS IN CLASSROOMS
COMPLETE PROVISION OF TEACHING FACULTY, MOST OF
THEM SPECIALLY TRAINED IN INDIA OR ABROAD.
| CO-CURRICULAR AND EXTRA-CURRICULAR FACILITIES|
INTEGRATION OF THE DISABLED WITH REGULAR STUDENTS
IN THE SAME CAMPUS BEING ATTEMPTED.
MEDICAL  AND  PHYSIO-THERAPIC  FACILITIES  EASILY
AwfQQIMI = Akin  DQVCIWr%l r%flfQTQ   ATTAf^rWn   cflD
EMPLOYMENT ACCESS PROVIDED TO PASSOUTS.
BOTH   INSTITUTES  PLANNED  AND  DESIGNED  THROUGH
COLLABORATION OF MULTIPLE AGENCIES FOR CONSTRUCTION,
EQUIPMENT ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT, SELF LEARNING
FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.



ANNEXE-V
STAFF DEVELOPMENT ACHIEVEMENT
POLY. TEACHERS TRAINED IN INDIA 7806
BI-500-   G-5
9000
8000    EaTARGET                ;       _|___l_l__
7000  X    ACHIEVEMENT                                                     OR
OD_ _ _ _ __ _ _            _ __ _ _ _ _RA-634- .
cn  6000             Lo   t^_ 
z                                                                                        M
o 5000                                                                       OR-278-     790
w
IL 3000                                                                        POLY. TEACHERS TRAINED ABROAD - 95
.W..s.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B -1  /-G -15 t 
2000
LO 00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
1000                                      co         U * 
B1    GO    GU    KA    KE    MP    OR    RA    UP                 R-
STATESOR                                                              KA1
OR-5~~~~   MP-19K -
BI-BIHAR; GO-GOA; GU-GUJARAT; KA-KARNATAKA; KE-KERALA; MP-MADHYA PRADESH; OR-ORISSA; RA-RAJASTHAN; UP-UTTAR PRADESH



ANNEXE-VI
DIVERSE DIMENSIONS OF STAFF DEVELOPMENT
(A)   QUALIFICATION  IMPROVEMENT:
States have sponsored about 3% of their regular teachers for programmes leading
to Master's degrees in New Technologies and in Technician Education, Bachelor's
degrees in Technologies, and Diploma in Technical Teaching offered by the four
TTTIs, Regional Engineering Colleges and State Engineering Colleges.  These
long-term programmes aimed at the development of professionalism, leadership
and technical knowledge among teachers which can be applied to instructional
activities.
(8)  SHORT-TERM PROGRAMMES FOR EXPERIENCED TEACHERS:
Mostly offered by the four TTTIs, the variety in these programmes is significant,
enveloping technological content updating; developing skills in curriculum design,
student assessment, instructional methods, transacting with industry, media
development, community services and computer application.
(C)   INDUSTRIAL TRAINING  OF TEACHERS:
Nearly 800 teachers from various project polytechnics were placed in industries for
getting acquainted with new technology processes and products and developing a
comprehension as to how this knowledge can be transferred to the classroom. In
addition, workshop and laboratory staff (15%) were trained in industry for becoming
aware of the modern industrial and maintenance practices. The TTTIs along with
TPOs and industrial executives organised this training in different locations.
(D)   INDUCTION  TRAINING  OF TEACHERS:
Most of the states, as a matter of policy, made it necessary that newly recruited
regular teachers had to undertake one to two months induction training during their
probation at the TTTIs or their extension centres. The objectives of induction training
were to develop in teachers necessary classroom and laboratory instructional skills.
(E)  MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT:
Mainly meant for Principals, senior faculty of polytechnics and executives of state
level units, a series of management development programmes were conducted.
These programmes related to the concept and utilisation of institutional autonomy,
team development, leadership, decision making and problem solving, managing
people at work and project management.
*  Due to stringent state regulations, only regular teachers could be trained in outstation
programmes. This restricted the number of teachers who could be trained in the TTTIs and other
training organisations. To overcome this problem, the TTTIs had to conduct in-house programmes
in polytechnics or for a cluster of polytechnics.
*  Apart from the TTTIs, which undertook the major share of staff development effort, other
organisations which contributed were industry, the IlTs and IlSc and some engineering colleges.
*  IlTs - indian Institutes of Technology
*  llSc - Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore
*  TPO - Training and Placement Officer in polytechnics



ANNEXE - VII
LEARNING RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT AND UTILISATION
LRs PRODUCED                                      LRs PROCURED FOR UTILISATION
STATE         OHP Trans Learning                 Lab     Video      Multi-      OHP    LerigLb                          Video    CAl
parencTesAPackagesEModels                 Progra- media/CAI  Trans-   Leanin                     L       Progra-  Pack-
parenies   ackags    Maualsmmes   Packages  parencies Packages    oes    Manuals   mmnes   ages
BIHAR                   75         8        NIL        2         1         NIL        270         6         8         2         38      NIL
GOA                    100         32        2         6         3          1         190        24         3         4         4       NIL
GUJARAT               90000        63        60        26        2         NIL        NIL        NIL       NIL       NIL       793      110
KARNATAKA               25        NIL        2         15       NIL         2         200        NIL        5         1         60      20
KERALA                  38        NIL        NIL       NIL       NIL       NIL         10         15       30         5        250      NIL
MADHYA PRADESH    1331             4         2         50        12        NIL        NIL        842       NIL       NIL       NIL      NIL
ORISSA                 3550        26        146       859      162        16         4515       116       130       650       608      31
RAJASTHAN              2190       164        48         6       NIL        NIL        903        NIL       NIL       NIL       214      NIL
UTTAR PRADESH           85         18         1         8        4         NIL        8825       NIL       NIL       NIL       1244    NIL
TOTAL (A)             97394        315       261       972       184       19        14913       1003      176       662       3211    161
TTTI BHOPAL            73*         46                  73       206         17      o  CAI -ComputerAided Instruction
TTTI CALCUTTA          320*        50                  25        24         10      o  Models - 3 Dimensional or Working Models
TTTI CHANDIGARH        202*        77                  12        185       16       o  Lab Manuals - Laboratory Manuals
TTTI CHENNAI           65*         20                  20        38         10
TOTAL (B)              660         193                 130      453        53
CAI - Computer Aided Instruction          * Transparancy sets in TTTIs



ANNEXE ViII
SAMPLE LIST OF Hi-TECH EQUIPMENT ACQUIRED
1. CNC Trainer Lathe                  21. Universal EPROM Programmer
2. CNC Mill Trainer                   22. Microprocessor Trainer Kit
3. Flexible Manufacturing System      23. Two Colour/Four Color Printing
machine
4. TIGIMIG Welding Equipment          24. Wab Offset Printing Machine
5. Pneumatic Circuit Trainer          25. Spectrum Analyser
6. Oil Power Hydraulic Trainer        26. Microwave Test Bench
7. Computerised IC Engine Test Bed    27. Logic Analyser
8. Magnetic Crack Detector            28. Exhaust Gas Analyser/Smoke Density
Meter
9. Surface Roughness Tester           29. Electronic Digital Display Balances of
different ranges
10. Pneumatic Comparator              30. Moulding Machine Operated by
Compressed Air
11. Electronic Comparator             31. Audio Video Work station
12. Diesel Injection Pump Test Bench  32. Video Data Projector
13. Experimental Vapour Absorption    33. Experimental Equipment- Domestic
System                                Air Conditioners
14. CAD/CAM Work Station with         34. Induction Heating Appartus
Peripherals & Software
15. Instrumentation Trainer           35. Induction Hardening Machine
16. 60 and 100 MHz Oscilloscopes      36. Electrical Machines Test Unit
17. Pneumatic Pressure Transmitter    37. Metallurgical Microscope/Tool Room
Microscope
18. Dielectric Heating Unit           38. Test Rig for Testing Different Types of
IC Engines
19. Electronic Distance Measuring     39. Digital Theodolite
Instrument (EDM)
20. Electronic Direct Sheave Test     40. Micro Optic Theodolite
Apparatus



ANNEXE - IX
STUDENTS BENEFITTED FROM INDUSTRY - INSTITUTE - INTERACTION DURING PROJECT PERIOD
61         GO    K
NUMBER OF STUDENTS BENEFITTED                                                                     K
GUEST
STATE  INDUSTRIAL  LECTURES    CAMPUS 
BYTOA
VISITS    INDUSTRIAL  INTERVIEWS TOA
EXPERTS
(1)       (2)          (3)          (4)         (5)
BI          270          50           260         580
GO          600          300          500        1400
GU         3739         1546         2352        7637
KA          250          150          300         700
KE         2983         2520          60         5563
MP         18882        4543         3181        26606                                                         21
OR         11041         843          527        12411
RA         9448         9949         1530       20927
UP         38780        33903        3776        76459
TOTAL    85993         53804         12486      152283



ANNEXE-X
STUDIES CONDUCTED DURING TECHNICIAN EDUCATION PROJECT
S. NO.                  AREA                             NUMBER
OF STUDIES
1.    Faculty & Staff Recruitment Development            15
2.    Construction and Equipment acquisition             04
3.    Curriculum Development                             11
4.    Curriculum Delivery and Learning Resources
Development and use                               12
5.    Interaction with industry                          07
6.    System and Institutional Management                16
7.    Project Output & impact                            07
8.    Continuing Education & Distance learning           10
9.    Entrepreneurial Skill Development                  05
10.   Avenues of Career growth and Employability         09
11.   Women's Participation                              08
12.   Services/Facilities for Students                   03
13.   Community Polytechnics                             07
14.   MIS/utilisation of Computers Centres               03
15.   MPECs                                              10
16.   Environmental Issues                               04
TOTAL                                              131
A SAMPLE OF MAJOR STUDIES COMPLETED DURING THE
PROJECT
S.NO.                STUDY                       IMPACT OF STUDY
1.     Assess recruitment cycle time for Recommendations forwarded to states,
polytechnic teachers              AICTE and MHRD for improvements
2.      Job  description  of   technicians Curricula revision
employed in High-Tech industries
3.     Women's education and employment Recommendations adopted by project
in technical fields.              states .
4.      Review  the process of equipment Recommendation forwarded to DGS&D
procurement for project states by and recipient states.
DGS&D.
Change in NPIU's role.
5.      Status of student training & placement Recommendations adopted by states to
services being provided in polytechnic improve effectiveness of training and
system                             placement services
6.     Internal  revenue  generation   by Guidelines and  innovative strategies
Technical Institutions in the Southern evolved and circulated to polytechnics
Region.                           _
7.      Utilisation   of   newly   acquired Assessment of suggestions to improve
equipment in Polytechnics          utilisation for SPIUs and polytechnics



ANNEXE-Xi
INTERNAL   REVENUE   GENERATION   (IRG)                 MODE OF GENERATION
C ENHANCEMENT
OF FEES FOR
Bl 2110 -  1 5.175                                                                  REGULAR
GO  7_4 Z8                                                               I CONTINUING
GO                                          '                                           2 7.4 8 EDUCATION
SERVICE
GU1111111Th 1IInI11III[  h  >innO 145.502        0TESTING AND
CALIBARATION
KEJ                                                                                E} _ [mmlM mmmEE ' 3.717 *CONSULTANCIES
KE  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~  ~~A3.717
U,
MP                                   1 _4.215                                      LE PRODUCTION
CENTRES
OR                                         25.220
MOTHERS
RA                                I[  19.238 EOHR
UP :$cs r                   k  e; . r                   k l                     119.405
0      5       10     15      20      25     30      35      40     45      120
RS. IN MILLION



ANNEXE-X_l
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL PROFILE OF THE PROJECT
AS ON 31-12-98 (CR - 2130 IN)
3000.00 -
Li) 
UTOTAL ALLOCATION                                                                                    U) 0
2500.00                                                                                                                   cm
CUMMULATIVE EXPENDITURE
z   2000.00                                                               __-_E__
E BCUMMULATIVE REIMBURSEMENT    N                               c
Z   1500.00                        _   .                               .             |r___----                                               .
i i                             -      - ii 1.l ll l
0.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~..C
BIHAR         GOA        GUJARAT    KARNATKA    KERALA            MADHYA        ORISSA    RAJASTHAN         UTTAR    TTTls & NPIU
PRADESH                                 PRADESH
STATES
1. Total Current Allocation Rs.9991.118 million; Cummulative Expenditure Rs.9774.238 million; Cumulative Reimbursement Rs.8018.642 m il11 i o n
NOTE:           (As on 31-12-98)
2. Some applications for reimbursement are in pipeline which are yet to be cleared .The expenditure data furnished by the states is as of 31 -12-98.
3. During the project period, the exchange rate for SDR versus Rupees has been consistently changing. This has resulted into change in the project cost and
expenditure in Rupees from time to time.



ANNEXE - Xill
CONTRIBUTION OF TTTIs
S.  ACHIEVEMENTS DURING  BHOPAL CALCUTTA CHANDIGARH CHENNAI  TOTAL
NO.      PROJECT PERIOD
Long-Term Masters and Diploma
1    Programmes for Polytechnic   203        135          244          318       900
Teachers (No. of Participants)
and Ph.D
2  Industrial Training of Polytechnic  1103  158           95          120      1476
Teachers(No. of participants)
Short Term Training of
Polytechnics in Hi-Tech,
3     Management, Curriculum     36496      3956         15078        11500    67030
Development etc (Participant
Weeks)
Curriculum Development
Centres, Learning Resources
4    Utilization centres and Cells,    381   131          266          347       1125
Industry Institute Interaction
Centres and Cells established.
5  Computer Centres established in   89      56           119          86        350
States
6     New Hi- Tech, Polytechnic    94         58           38          59        249
Programmes initiated
7    Women's Counselling Cells    104         10           33          10        157
established in Polytechnics.
8     Polytechnic Experiments in   46         11           25          12         94
Course Flexibility.
9     Polytechnic Experiments in   28         7            2           10         47
Institutional Autonomy
Development of State Project
10      Units and Lead Centre      20         4            23           17        64
Polytechnics.
11      Polytechnics assisted.     138        86           129         178       531
12   Hi-Tech Currriculae developed  67        58           24           59       208
for States
13      Industries linked with     310       190           300         145        945
14  IRG from industrial consultancies   301   55           128         192       676
in Lakhs of Rupees
* The role of the TTTIs include dimensions like faculty and staff development, facilitating polytechnics
and state in introducing change and reforms, intervening in situations where the project progress
was impeded, developing hi-tech instructional resources, and helping states and central government
in the formulation of operational policy and strategies. TTTis also offer consultancy and continuing
education services to industry and community.



ANNEXE - XIV
FUTURE PERSPECTIVES
|      ~~SUSTAINING   PROJECT  GAINS
STRONG   LINKAGES   WITH   INDUSTRY AND ACTIVE
PARTICIPATION OF INDUSTRY IN INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
INTRODUCTION OF PROGRAMME FLEXIBILITY  FACILITATING
VERTICAL MOBILITY OF STUDENTS AND WORKING PERSONNEL
DEVELOPMENT OF MORE AUTONOMOUS INSTITUTIONS
SUSTENANCE OF STATE  LEVEL INFRASTRUCTURES AND
OPERATIONS
PLANNED STAFF DEVELOPMENT ON A CONTINUING BASIS
INTRODUCTION OF MARKET-ORIENTED PROGRAMMES
|PROVISION OF ADEQUATE PLAN FUNDS TO SUSTAIN GAINS AND
|INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTl



