Page  1
                                                            June 20, 1991
Principal Secretary
Manpower Planning and Labor Department
Government of Madhya Pradesh
Ground Floor Room No. 97
Vallabh Bhawan
Bhopal, India
      Re: Development Credit No. 2130-IN/Loan No. 3195-IN
         (Technician Education Project) - Amendment of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement
Dear Sir:
      We refer to the Project Agreement (technician Education Project)
among the International Development Association (the Association), the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the
State of Bihar, the State of Gujarat, the State of Karnataka, the State
of Kerala, the State of Madhya Pradesh, the State of Orissa, the State of
Rajasthan and the State of Uttar Pradesh (the Project States), dated
August 13, 1990.  We refer also to the request by Mr. Hardeepak Singh,
Director, Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower, on behalf of
the Project States, during his recent visit to Washington, D.C. from
February 4 to 8, 1991, to amend the procurement procedures for civil
works under the Project.
      The Bank and the Association are pleased to inform you that, pursuant
to the above request, the Association and the Bank hereby agree to amend
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement as follows:
      1.    Paragraph 1 of Part C is substituted by the following new
paragraph 1 as follows:
      "1.   (a)  Except as provided in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) hereof,
      contracts  for  civil  works  shall be awarded,  on the  basis  of
      competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally,  in  accordance  with
      procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
            (b)  Except as provided in sub-paragraph (c) hereof, civil
      works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $300,000 per
      contract,  up to an aggregate amount not exceeding  $51,000,000
      equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
      comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
      three contractors eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
      procedures acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
            (c)  Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent
      of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
      $18,000,000,  may  be  carried  out  by  force  account  under  the
      supervision of Public Works Department Construction Units or by
      contracts directly negotiated with one qualified contractor in
      accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association and the
      Bank."
2.    In paragraph 1 (a) of Part D, the phrase "civil works, equipment
and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more" is
substituted with the phrase: "civil works, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $300,000 or more, and equipment and vehicles, estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more,".
      Please confirm the agreement, on behalf of your Project State, to
the foregoing amendment by signing and dating the confirmation form on
the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us for our record.
      Counterparts of this letter are being sent to the other Project
Page  2
States for their confirmation.  The amendment will become effective as of
the date hereof upon receipt of confirmation by us from all the Project
States.
      A copy of this  letter  is being forwarded to the Secretary to the
Government of India, Ministry of Finance, for his record.
                               Heinz Vergin
                                 Director
                           Country Department 4
                                Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH
By:
      Authorized Representative
Date: 08/10/91
cc:   The Secretary to the Government of India
      Ministry of Finance
      Department of Economic Affairs
      New Delhi, India
