CREDIT NUMBER 2130 IN
LOAN NUMBER 3195 IN
Goa Project Agreement
(Technician Education Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF GOA
Dated              &    , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2130 IN
LOAN NUMBER 3195 IN
GOA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                   1993, among INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (te As2ciation), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF GOA, acting
by its Governor (Goa).
WHEREAS (A) by a Development Credit Agreement dated August 13,
1990 between India (the Borrower) and the Association for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the said Development Credit
Agreement (the Project), the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to one hundred seventy eight million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 178,200,000) to assist the Borrower and the
Project States in carrying out the Project, on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
(B)   by a Loan Agreement dated August 13, 1990 between the
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) to assist the Borrower
and the Project States in carrying out the Project, on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement;
(c)   by a Project Agreement dated August 13, 1990 among the
Association, the Bank and the Project States, the Project States
have agreed to participate in -arrying out of the Project and to
undertake their respective obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement; and
WHEREAS Goa, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has requested
the Association and the Bank to participate in the Project as a
Project State, and has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the


﻿-2-
Loan Agreement as amended and in the General Conditions (as so
defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement,
respectively) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Goa declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A, B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4 and B.5, C.1, C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5 and
D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with   appropriate  administrative,   financial,  and   educational
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association, the Bank and Goa
shall otherwise agree, Goa shall carry out Parts A, B.1, B.2, B.3,
B.4 and B.5, C.1, C.2, C.3, C.4 and 0.5 and D of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. Goa shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions applicable to the Development Credit Agreement and in
Sections 9.04, 9.05,. 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Goa Project Agreement, and Parts A. B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4 and B.5, C.1,
C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5 and D of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Goa shall, at the request of the Association
and the Bank, exchange views with the Association and the Bank with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its


﻿-3-
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b)   Goa shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit or the Loan, or the performance by Goa of its obligations
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Goa shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project
of the departments and agencies of Goa responsible for carrying out
the Project, or any part thereof.
(b)   Goa shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of thiz Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent    auditors   acceptable    to   the
Association and the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association and the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association and the Bank such
other  information   concerning   said  records,
accounts and financial statements as well as the
audit thereof, as the Association and the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Association shall have notified the
Borrower and Goa to this effect.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, the Bank and of Goa. thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which both the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement shall have
terminated in accordance with their respective
terms; or
(ii)   the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement or       the Loan
Agreement or both of the said Agreements terminate in accordance
with their respective terms before *he date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association or the Bank or both shall
promptly notify Goa of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice


﻿-5-
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                 197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For Goa:
Chief Secretary
Government of Goa
Panaji
India
Telex:
194276


﻿-6
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Goa may be taken or executed by its Chief
Secretary or such other person or persons as Goa shall designate in
writing, Goa shall furnish to the Association and the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to Goa and so long as the Development Credit Agreement
shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the Loan
Agreement:
(a)   the obligations of Goa to consult with, and to furnish
information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to,
the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent performance in respect of
such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)   the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to
furnish information to, Goa shall be satisfied to the extent such
obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and
(c)   all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or
granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development
Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in the name
and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF GOA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.    Goa shall (a) provide additional staff to its Board of
Technical Education, Directorate of Technical Education, State
Project Implementation Unit, polytechnics, and other related
institutions in accordance with an agreed Key Additional Staffing
Plan; and (b) institute a Faculty Development System for technical
teachers in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Association
and the Bank.
2.    Goa shall develop and expand diploma programs for women and in
conjunction therewith make concurrent efforts, including the
establishment of a special cell in each women's polytechnics, to
identify and obtain suitable employment opportunities for women in
new disciplines.
3.    Goa shall introduce in a phased manner the Multi-Point Entry
and Credit System in selected disciplines and polytechnics.
4.    Goa shall promote close interaction of polytechnics with
industry by (a) developing and implementing Industry-Institute
programs satisfactory to the Association and the Bank; and (b)
constituting an Industry-Institute Cell at each polytechnic and
Directorate of Technical Education and appointing advisory committee
and Industrial Liaison and Placement Officers to head the said
Industry-Institute Cells.
5.    Goa shall, by December 31, 1993, review the current practices
and levels of internal revenue generation for its polytechnics and
develop plans to increase internal revenue generation through
various ways and means.
6.    Goa shall cause its polytechnics to charge fees to recover the
full costs for continuing education programs being administered by
them for public and private sector industry.
7.    Goa shall (a) provide adequate resourcs for its polytechnics
for the maintenance of buildings and equipment, and (b) delegate
appropriate financial powers to polytechnic principals to enable
then to undertake annual maintenance programs at its polytechnics.


﻿-9-
8.    Goa shall prepare and furnish to the Association and the Bank
by December 31 of each year, draft annual plans for the next fiscal
year for (a) the introduction of new technician programs in their
res?ective polytechnics, (b) the construction of new and rehabili-
tation of existing facilities, and (c) training of teachers
including local and foreign fellowships.
9.    Goa shall, in conjunction with the Borrower, the Association
and the Bank, undertake an annual review of Project progress on the
basis of monitorable benchmarks agreed to by Goa, the Association
and the Bank.


