Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE Co-Ya
Report No. 5005-DJI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DJIBOUTI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Augvst 20, 1984
Water Supply and Urban Development Division
Eastern Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by meipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



~-   -
COEECY EQUIVAENTS
Currency Unit                                              DF
US$1.00                                                    DF 177.7
FD 1,000                              =                    US$5.6
FD 1,000,000                          =                    US$5,627
VEIGUTS AND 4EASURES
1 cm - centimeter                     =                    0.39 inches
1 m   - meter                                              3.28 feet
1 m3 - cubic ueter                                         264 US gallons
1 km - kilometer                                           0.62 miles
1 km2- square kilometer                                    0.39 square miles
GLOSSAEY OF ABBBEVIAIIONS AMD ACRXDNYM
BAD        Banque Africaine de Développement (African Development Bank)
CCCE       Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique
CDD        Caisse de Développement de Djibouti (Development Bank)
CI-PA      Centre de Formation Professionnelle Administrative
DD         District of Djibouti
DEB        Djibouti Electricity Board
DUDP       Djibouti Urban Development Project
DUL        Direction  de l'Urbanisme et du Logement  (Urban Planning and
Housing Department at MPWUR)
FAC        Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération (French Aid Agency)
LO         Land Office
MPWUR      Ministry of Public Works, Urban Planning and Housing
PMU        Project Management Unit
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
SID        Société Immobilière de Djibouti (Iousing Agency)
UDF        Urban Development Fund
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
WDD        Water Department of Djibouti
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



WJIBOUTI                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.     P =ROJECT S IARY. .. ......     ......I............................   1
The  Borrower   ..   ......... .................. e * ................  1
Amount ...... ...   .ee...................   ........................ 
Terms..  ........pe...... *...u    .........
Project Objectives and Description ........1.........
Benefits and RiKsi....s-ks .. .*.........                            2
Project Coss......s.....t......st  .                                 2
Financing Plan .........................                             3
Estimated Credit Disbursements .............................         3
Rate of Return .................................. .  .               3
1I.    SECTORAL CONTEXT. ..    ................................              4
A.  Background and Urban Conditions               .      .           4
B.  Institutional Framework ............................... .        6
C.  Government Initiatives in the Sector             .      .        8
D. Bank Involvement in D           jibouti .............  10
E.  Rationale and Background for Bank Involvement..........    10
III*   THE PROJECT ....*...............                                     12
A.  Objctve  ...... .v .....                                        12
B. Project Components               . . .12
C.  Institutional Support ...... .        ..    .     ........    13
IV.    PROJECT INPLEâENTATION DETAILS .....        .......................    14
A. Project Costs                     ..            . .....  14
B. Project Financing                     ....   14
C.  Flow of Funds                .    . ........... .               16
D. Project Implementation                   ....    16
E. Procurement .....*.Q... ......a..................... O... ...........    19
F. Disbursements ...................................  ................    21
G. Accounts and Audit........................    21
H.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision .................    22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Djibouti in October 1983.  The mission consisted of Ms. C.  Carr (Mission
Chief), Mr. G. Tenaille (IBRD), and Messrs. B. Dembitzer, I. Nahmias and
D.  Ossen  (Consultants).    The  concurrent  United  States  Agency  for
International Development (USAID) mission was composed of Messrs. C. Bovet
and D. Chilson. Ms. Y. Colon assisted in the production of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



-ii-
V.     FINAUCIAL AN&LYSIS AMD PROJECT JUSTIFICATION. .............    23
A.  Project Cash Flow .............      .    ............ . ... .    23
B.  Cost Kecovery         .... .............*..........    23
C.  Recurrent Costs .......... ............. ......... .........    25
D. Affo.rdabîlity ......................................................    25
E.  Replic.-bility ..........................e**********c.          25
F.  Urban Poverty Impact................. ....... *......  .26
G.  Project Benefits .......................................    26
H.  Project Risks ........................................... .......... 27
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACEHED AND RCKENDATIONS. ....................    29
LIST 0F ANNEXES
A1-EX                             DESCRIPTION
1.       Detailed Project Description ...........................    31
2 *      Detailed Cost Estimates .............................. .    43
3.       Organization Charts                   .....                     48
4        Flow of Funds and Project Cash Flow....................    51
5.       Project Implementation Schedule ........................        53
6.       Physical/Financial Implementation Schedule .. ...........    54
7.       Disbursement Schedule ............................................... .    61
8.       Economic Analysis and Cost and Benefit Streams .........    62
9.       Affordability Calculation ..............................    65
10.       Provision for Simplified Land Acquisition and Building
Permits in Balbala and Old Wards ......................    67
11.       Terms of Reference for Water Tariff Study ..............    75
12.       Documents Available in Project File ....................        77
TEXU TABLES
Table 4.1         Summary of Project Costs .......................       15
Chart 1           Flow of Responsibility .........................    18
Table 4.2         Procurement Arrangements .............go........     19
Table 5.1         Schedule of Cost Recovery ......................    24
MAPS
IBRD 17672      Subproject Locations
IBRD 17673      Old Wards Upgrading Component
Water Supply Network
IBRD 17955      Old Wards:  Drainage
IBRD 17674      Balbala Upgrading Component
Roads, Public Lighting, and Garbage
IBRD 17675      Salines Ouest Component
Site Development
IBRD 17676      Salines Ouest Component
Water Supply and Sanitation
IBRD 17677      Salines Ouest Component
Roads and Public Lighting
IBR3D 17678     Salines Ouest Component
Drainage



DJIBOUTI
Ulm  DEVELOPIT POECT
I. PROJECT SUMURY
Ebrrover: Republic of Djibouti
imunt: SDK 4.9 million (US$5 million equivalent)
lerua: Standard IDA terms
Project Objectives and Description:   The project's main objectives are to
increase the absorptive capacity of key agencies by providing staff
training, equipment and a clearer and more appropriate franework for the
management of urban investments; to improve the living conditions of the
urban poor in Djibouti; and to introduoe more rigor in cost recovery
practices, with special emphasis on improving the revenue base of the local
agencies and recycling recovered project funds.  The project consists of
the following components:
(a) Old Wards.  Upgrading and drainage works in the Old Wards to
alleviate  stormwater  damage  and  provide  protection  from
flooding of all low  lying areas.   Roads, increased vater
distribution, fire hydrants and refuse collection will also
be included.
(b) Balbala.    Upgrading  of  a squatter  settlement;  this will
include   provision  of  roads,   public   lighting,   refuse
collection and the construction of a market.
(c) Salines Ouest.   A site and service development as a joint
venture with the Société I mDbillère de Djibouti  (SID) on
land owned by them. SID's contribution will include the land
and core housing units; the project will finance the cost of
the off-site and on-site infrastructure.
(d) Institution Support.   Technical support including staffing,
training and equipment to the Land Offioe, the District of
Djibouti, SID, Caisse de Développement de Djibouti (CDD), and
a small Project Management Unit (PMU).
(e) Housing Credit. Housing credit to improve existing homes and
for the construction of new housing units in the target
areas.



- 2-
Benefits and RiBks
The project objectives will be achieved through the servicing of
urban land and the provision of housing credit. The project vill improve
the living conditions in the Old Wards (161 ha., 10,390 householde) and
Balbala (105 ha., 2,500 plots) and will provide 176 serviced plots at
Salines Ouest. The project will ale strengthen the operations of existing
urban institutions. The main risks faced by the project are those derived
from weaknesses in the execution capacity of the implementation agencies
which may lead to delays in project implementation, and co0t recovery.
Specific measures, including a high degree of institutional support which
is considered of high priority in Djibouti, have been included as part of
the project to limit these risks.
Project Costa
US$ million
Local   Foreign    Ibtal
Upgrading of Old Wards                                1.22      1.50      2.72
Upgrading of Balbala                                  0.55      0.78      1.33
Salines Ouest )
Site & Service)                                       0.59     0.85       1.44
Detailed Design & Supervision                         0.19      0.33      0.52
Institutional Support                                 1.08     2.72       3.80
Housing Credit                                        0.79      0.96      1.75
Total Base Cost                                       4.42      7.14     11.56
Physical Contingencies                                0.48      0.66      1.14
Price Contingencies                                   0.78      1.25      2.03
Total Project Cost a/                                 5.68      9.05     14.73
PPF                                                    --       0.50      0.50
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                              5.68      9.55     15.23
a/   Net of taxes and duties.



o  g   S   ~(1               -2UXEi1 
o  o  o   o              
Cn C% 
O tn   s~~~~~
>°~~~~C 1
oomo œ                                  1t
* O *I              * *4    
CD  0   v      



- 4 -
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Backgrou.d and Urban Conditions
2.01       The Republic of Djibouti  es a small country of 23,200 km2 which
became independent ln 1977. Over sixty percent of its population, estima-
ted at 330,000 inhabitants in 1982, live in the capital, Djibouti.
Djibouti now exists as a separate state only because France developed a
bunkering port there in the late l9th oentury for ships using the Suez
Canal. Its boundaries correspond to no natural ethnic, geographic or more
ancient historical distinctions.   Djibouti consists of  three economic
sub-units: the city of Djibouti wlth the port/railway terminal, government
services and practically all of the couatry's commercial activity;  the
French military base, the country's main source of economic activity; and
the  relatively  remote,  poor  and  sparsely  populated  hinterland.    The
military base, with a personnel of approximately 4,500 people, and the port
are expected to remain the main source of economic activity for the near
future.  Known natural resources are few, except for vossible availabillty
of geothermal resources which is under investigation with a proposed
IDA-financed project.  The interior of the country is likely to remain as
impoverished as the neighboring regions of Somalia and Ethiopia, with the
main rural activity continuing to be nomadic pastoralism. France, together
with several other countries and international agencies, supports the
development effort of the couatry with substantial financial and techilcal
aid, most of which is provided on a grant basis.
2.02       Since accession to independence, the Government has concentrated
on developing agriculture and industry and on accelerated training of
Djibouti nationals to take over from the expatriate personnel who in many
Instances stLll handle both the technical and management aspects of those
two sectors and the country's modern services.   Although this effort has
already produced appreciable results, it is important to recognize that
agriculture and industry face formidable natural obstacles and that the
country lacks any abundant natural resources other than its fishing
grounds, its geothermal potential and some mining activity.
2.03       The development effort since independence hns produced tangible
results in investment and economic growth.   According to Bank estimates
(Economic Report No. 4692-DJI), fixed public investment grew in real terms
at 37% annually between 1978 and 1982, reaching a total of US$75 million in
1982,  or over  21% of GDP.   There was also  a small boom in  private
investment,   particularly  in  building  and   infrastructure,   although
equivalent to less than 10% of public investment.   This expansion, and
sustained demand from the French military establishment, gave a real annual
3% growth rate in GDP between 1978 and 1982.  Per capita GDP reached a
nominal value of US$880 in 1982, an estimate which falls to US$480 if
adjusted for the purchasing power parity approach and the presence of a
large resident expatriate community.
2.04      Over the past several years the city of Djibouti has grown at an
average rate of 5.4%, to a present population of 195,000. Although lower



now tlun during the past two gdecades, this growth will add 125,000 people
by 1992 to a city whose quality of life i8 already poor for the majority of
its people.  For most of this century, settlement vas confined to a narrov
peninsula,  with  the  Wadi  Ambouli  serving  as  a  natural  barrier  to
expansion.     Recent  population  pressures  have  changed  this  pattern.
Expatriates and a small number of high-income Djiboutians remain in
low-density areas north of the commercial center and in military compounds
around the city.   By contrast, the poorer  Old Wards" of the inner city
have become more densely settled, and now contain 65Z of the city's
population.   About half  the  population of  the Old Wards  are  tenants.
Beyond the Wadi Ambouli, 23,000 people (12% of the city's population) live
in the squatter settlement of Balbala, an area with poor access to the rest
of the city and virtually no services.
2.05         Djibouti has essentially a service rather than a production
economy with 80Z of total production coming from the tertiary sector,
located in the city.  The largest sources of formal sector employment are
the state and its parastatal agencies, followed by the port, the railway,
the military base, and businesses dependent on these three.  A container
port project is under preparation for possible Arab funds financing.
Small-scale manufacturing for the domestic market has been largely confined
to food and beverages, furniture, and maintenance and repair services.
2.06       Average monthly family income is US$550 for the Old Wards and
US$170 for Balbala.  This income, while rather high in absolute terms, is
offset by the extremely high cost of living, such that a monthly income of
US$175 puts a family on the verge of starvation. Malnutrition is therefore
severe in the overcrowded,  poor parts of the city.   Unlike most other
African countries, the "informal sector in Djibouti is not a major
employment source; it makes up at present only about 30% of total
employed.
2.07        Eousing conditions in the Old Wards and Balbala are generally
poor. Paradoxically in this almost treeless country, over 17,000 dwellings
are made of wood, most of which is imported from Ethiopia.  Few houses are
of permanent construction.   A few units are being upgraded, although at
present this is an expensive and time-consuming process, requiring lengthy
administrative approval because of the inappropriately high building stan-
dards of the Ministry of Public Works. Houses in Balbala are poorly built,
of whatever materials are available, including cardboard and scrap plastic
sheets.
2.08       The construction sector suffers from a scarcity of trained local
labor, unreliable materials supply, and the volatile and irregular nature
of demand.  In addition to these factors, self-help builders also have to
contend with the present cumbersome, 16-step process of obtaining a plot
authorization and building permit.   The lack of long-term financing has
meant that up to now, the housing market has operated almost exclusively on
a cash basis. Apart from sand, aggregate and lime, all building materials
are imported. USAID is financing research on the local production of earth
bricks; should the results prove positive, USAID and the French Government
Technical Assistance (FAC) are envisaging financing a small project to
produce these bricks in the future. This vas not included in this project
as no conclusive results are yet available.



- 6 -
2.09      The higher income areas and the commercial center are vell served
with surfaced roads, water, sewerage, and electricity.   These areas are
also relatively well drained.   Although adequately served by both major
access roads and secondary streets, the Old Wards suffer from poor quality
incerior roads and drains.  Secondary streets are unsurfaced and often too
narrow for anything but pedestrian access. Some areas lie below sea level
and are subject to flooding during even light rains; severe floods occur
every few years.   The Old Wards have street  lighting and a few public
standpipes (27 in the whole city, including four for the 23,000 people in
Balbala), as well as some private water and electricity connections. Water
quality is satisfactory.   Water connections which exist often serve many
neighboring houses; the householder with a connection often charges hie
neighbors  high  prices  for  this  service.    There  are  soue  individual
connections to tle water-borne sewerage system but most housing in the Old
Wards is served by septic tanks and pit latrines.
2.10       Life expectancy is about 50 years, and infant mortality is esti-
mated at 120 per 1,000. The climate is relatively healthy. While Djibouti
has a large number of expatriate medical personnel, it appears that
inadequate attention i8 given to basic health services and to preventive
medicine.   Government sector priorities are for promotion of mother and
child health, training of staff, and development of health education.
Although 11% of the national budget is devoted to health, most is for
curative services.
5. Inst:tutlonal Frameuork
2.11        Institutional Setting.   As a city-state, it is not surprising
that the urbanized area comprising the city of Djibouti is regarded as a
national rather  than as a municipal asset.   In such an environment the
distinction between national and municipal responsibilities is thus hard to
define; at present, there are no elected or appointed local government
officials,   although   recently   introduced   legis;Laiiû    provides   for
the  appointment  of  municipal  advisory  councils.    Responsibility  for
planning, execution, and financing of urban infrastructure and other
facilities rests with national agencies, primarily with the Ministry of
Public Works, Urban Planning and Housing.
2.12        Ministry of Public Works, Urban Planning and Housing (MPWUH).
Regional and urban physical planning, execution and maintenance of roads
and drainage, construction and maintenance of government buildings and
housing, and building code enforcement are among the wide range of respon-
sibilities of this ministry.  The Ministry has some 26 expatriates provided
by FAC and 400 Djiboutians.  An organization chart is attached (Annex 3).
The proven technical capability of this ministry has led the Government and
international aid agencies to further increase its responsibilities,
particularly   as   regards   construction   and   maintenance   of   urban
infrastructure.   A Presidential Decree  issued in June 1982 transferred
responsibility for maintenance of Djibouti city streets from the District
to the Public Works Ministry;  a subsequent decree, dated September 20,
1982, enlarged this mandate to include maintenance of drainage canals,
sidewalks, and public squares.



- 7 -
2.13       A strong technical bias has led the MPWUH to insist on unrealis-
tically high standards for planning ane. construction. The French building
code, without any modification or adaptation, is still in force in Djibou-
ti. Award of full title can only be granted if a permanent house is built
on a plot and on-site services ccnforn to the planning regulation. As pro-
cedures for grantirg permanent title to land and issuing building permits
are overly long, complex, and political, the bulk of house construction
since Independence has taker piace outside Public Works control.  A review
of the building code and permit procedure was undertaken during preparation
of the proposed project. This review has produced recommendations aimed at
simplifying the cxisting procedures to obtain building permits and allow
lower building standards, which will be incorporated in the project (see
Annex 10).
2.14         District of Djibouti (DD).   The country is divided into five
administrative districts; the District of Djibouti (further divided into
three sub-districts or arrondissements) covers the city areas. Rather than
a true Mayor, tcxw head of the District administration represents the
national authorities in thc city, as his title (Commissaire de la R1pu-
blique) implies.   The District of Djibouti which  is  supervised  by  the
Kinistry of the Interior, is zesponsible for issuing licenses anu permits,
mad provîdes police and emergency services (floods, fires, etc.).  Two of
its most important functions are garbage collection and street cleaning,
which are handled by the Technical Services Department.   The Government
collects  taxes  for  these  services   which go  directly  to  the national
Treasury.   The District has no  financial autonomy,  all of its recelpts
being central guverument cransfers.  The Technical Services Department of
the DD employs a total of 389 staff (of which two are expatriate
supervisors financed by FAC); 136 of these are specifically employed in
refuse collection and street cleaning.   An organization  chart of DD is
included (Annex 3).
2.15        Land Office (LO).  The Land Office which is under the titular
control of the Ministry of Finance, processes all requests for plots,
collects registry fees and propQrty taxes, and manages public land
reserves. This agency is divided into three divisions: the Public Property
Division which manages all public land, the Survey Division which handles
all topographic work, and the Records and Titles Division which registers
all titles.   The Public  Property  Division  processes  approximately  200
provisional or final property concessions per year.  Drafting of decrees
presently is needed for concessions ranging from a single plot to a major
site. The Survey Division is currently able to handle one application per
day or roughly 300 per year.   The Survey Division therefore needs to be
strengthened if its handling capacity is to be increased. The Land Records
and Titles Division is able to meet current demand comfortably; however, it
requires becter registration and filing systers.  An organization chart of
LU is included (Annex 3).
2.16       The Société Immobilière de Djibouti (SID) (Rousing Agency) is the
parastatal agency responsible for developing and managing housing for
lover-  and  middle-income  groups.    Until  1975,  SID  benefited  from
concessional financing from the French Caisse Centrale de Coopération
Economique (CCCE), a minoricy shareholder in SID. Since this financing has
been  discontinued, no new  projects  have  been  undertaken.   Between  its



- 8 -
creation in 1956 and 1975, SID bullt some 2,120 housing units, of which it
still owns about 780, the rest having been sold through rent-purchase
agreemencs. 0f the 7b0 dwellinge, 50Z are under lease-purchase contracte,
and the balance under simple lease contracte.  SID has a total staff of 34
persons   to  manage   the  portfolio   of  properties  under   lease  and
lease-purchase.  SID has undertaken no new operation sinoe 1975.  SID has
assets totalling US$6.2 million of which US$3.6 million is invested in term
deposits with five Djibouti banks.  In the period 1980-1983 delinquencies
in payuents on leases and lease-purchase have averaged 282 of SID's
portfolio. SID's management advised during appraisal that this was due to
the fact that penalties for late payment are not accepted under Djiboutian
law and SID's only recourse against late payers is to seek a judguent
through the legal system.   A condition of disbursement for the Salines
Ouest component wlll be that SID reduce their present delinquent accounts
to lees than 20% of their portfolio. Thereafter the Government shall cause
SID to maintain the accounte delinquent for more than three months in its
portfolio of leased and lease purchase properties to less than 20% (para.
6.04).
2.17        Caisse de Développement de Djibouti (CDD) (Development Bank).
The Caisse de Développement de Djibouti is a parastatal agency founded in
January 1983 as a development bank with capital from the Gçvernment (51%),
CCCE (14%), the Banque Européenne d'Investissement (14%) and six local
coumrcial banks (21Z). The objective of CDD le to make medium- and long-
term loans to industry, transport, fishing, housing and in particular to
email- and medium-scale enterprises which generate employment.  CDD is an
organization still in its lnfancy and as yet does not have its own payuent
facilities; it uses those of a commercial bank.  CDD was formed primarily
tO  support  directly  productive  investments;  however,  its  statutes
specifically provide for the granting of loans for low- and intermediate-
cost housing provided that these do not exceed 40Z of the corporation's net
worth. CDD has a total current staff of five persons, the director ie an
expatriate recruited by CCCE.   At the time of appraisal CDD had granted
loans amounting to DF 55 million (US$310,000), of which DF 25 million
(US$140,000) to the private sector for real estate purchases, DF 15 million
(US$85,000) to commercial firos for equipoent and DF 15 million (US$85,000)
for farm equipment.  CDD ensures that it has proper guarantees and makes
mortgage loans at 8% interest for a period not exceeding 15 years.
Mortgage loans are subject to a ceiling of DF 3 million (US$17,000) each.
C. Governuent Initiatives in the Sector
2.18          Urban Master Plan.   A Master Plan study for the long-term
development of the city of Djibouti has been prepared, with financing from
the European Development Fund.   The study, completed in February 1981,
recommends the development of new residential areas to the west of the city
in the Balbala area, improvement of conditions in Balbala itself, and cor-
rection of the drainage problem in the Old Wards.  The general approach
suggested by the Master Plan is sound, calling for standards of housing and
other urban facilities to be set according to affordability criteria.



- 9 -
2.19       Ibuslng.  Since 1975 the Goverament has constructed 410 housing
units,  to bouse the Djibouti army and security forces.   Although  the
Governnent of Abu-Dhabi offered financing for several hundred houslng units
after  Independence, only  about  50 were  actually  built.   Recently, a
dermonstration project for 300 finished houses (Cité Cheikh Osman) vas
undertaken by MPWUH with Saudi Arabian and Kuwaiti financing. Construction
cost estimates lndicated that under full cost recovery, these units would
be affordable only to 5% of the population.
2.20       The DD leveled and demarcated 650 plots adjacent to Balbala in
1982, primarily to relocate people from the mast crowded areas of the cor-
munity but also to settle refugees and to resettle a small squatter group
currently located next to the offices of NPWUH. No infrastructure services
vere provided.  This vas a successful experience and the District would
like to continue this process until all of Balbala has basic road access
and all resicdents are on demarcated plots.
2.21       Education.   The Govermeant is acting rapidly to expand primAry
education; primary school attendance ta the city as a whole is about 60% of
the relevant scbool-age population. However, literacy is still low, as is
the level of marketable ekills among the population in general. Only 9% of
the population can read, vrite and couut.   Several donors are financing
construction of primary and secondary schools, including vocational
schools, as well as providing teachers. A primary teacher training college
has been in operation since 1980.  However, there is still a shortage of
qualified candidates for admission to this college and Djibouti will
continue to depend on expatriate teachers for many years to come.
2.22       Water and Electricity are provided by state owned companies, the
Water Department of Djibouti (WDD) and the Djibouti Electricity Board (DEB)
(which is attached to the Ministry of Industry).  The water distribution
network in the city needs rehabilitation. A WHO-CP sector mission visited
Djibouti in April 1981 and prepared a report of its findings dated December
1981. The African Development Fund agreed in May 1983 to finance a water
supply project for the city of Djibouti based on a study by a Belgian firm
(Tractionel) of investment needs for reinforcement of water supply systems
which vas financed by Belgian technical assistance.   This project wlli
provide 22.4 km of vater distribution network with 38 standpipes and 35
fire hydrants in Balbala; individual connections are envisaged later as
needed.
2.23        Industry and Artisanal Production.   Djibouti has only a small
local market and little artisanal or industrial activity has developed.
A small industrialization unit has been set up in the Ministry of Industry
but, as yet, no services are offered to small or large scale industry. The
labor force is lacking in industrial skills; while the need for basic
training is videspread, training facilities are not necessarily compatible
with the needs as more fully covered in the Education and Training Sector
Hemorandum of December 10, 1983 (Report Number 4682-DJI).  Wage rates in
the formal sector are high, sustained by minimum wage legislation.
Development  of  productive  activities  in  the  industrial  sector  will
therefore be extremely difficuLt.



- 10 -
B. Bank Involvement ini Dj ibouti
2.24       Djibouti joined the Bank and the Association on October 2, 1980.
Since then a Technical Assistance Project (CR 1232-DJI) and a iighway Main-
tenance Project (CR 1303-DJI) have been approved. The Technical Assistance
Project  (Credit of US$3 million)  became effective in May  1982.    lhe
project, which is co-financed with UNDP, provides technical assistance to
the Directorates of Planning and Statistics.  The project has encountered
severe difficulties in the planning area; however a major reorganization of
the Planning Directorate is now under way.   Assistance to the Statistics
Directorate has been satisfactory. The Highway Maintenance Project (Credit
of USf6 million) became effective in october 1983.  Consultants have been
selected  for  pre-investment  studies.    This  project  will  assist  the
Government  to carry out  road maintenance  throughout  the country.    A
geothernal project was approved by the Board on May 31, 1984.  This will
thus be the fourth project ïn Djibouti since it joined the Bank Group. An
economic mission from the Bank visited Djibouti in June 1983 and bas
recently completed a report on its findings, "Ecunomic Situation and
Prospects," October 30, 1983 (Report No. 4692-DJI). The Bank participated
in a roundtable donors' conference held in Djibouti in November 1983.  A
possible education project focusing on expansion and improvement of primary
education lias recently been appraised following the recommendations of the
Education and Training  Sector Memorandum of December 10, 1983 (Report
Number 4682-DJ1).  This project will provide primary education facilities
for the underprivileged rural and urban areas, including those to be
assisted by the proposed urban development project.
E. Rationale and Background for Bank Involvement
2.25      The rationale for Bank involvement in the project is as follows:
(a) Djibouti is a city-state; with the country's population
concentrated in the city, an urban project is the best
vehicle to have a significant impact on a large segment of
the population, given the scarce investment resources and
limited agricultural development potential of the country;
(b) the bank's substantial experience with low-income shelter
projects in Africa gives it a comparative advantage în
working with the Government to develop realistic policies
for the urban sector emphasizing cost recovery and lower
investment costs;
(c) the project is in line witn government priorities and Bank
strategy in Djibouti for institution building and will
strengthen the urban institutions and convert this into au
effective and financially viable sector; and
(d)  the  Bank's  participation  in  the  sector  has  laid  the
foundation for the Bank to coordinate and attract other
donors, includingUSAID, and CCE, which are co-financing this
project.



- il -
2.26     The Goverament  of Djibouti  initially approached  the Bank  for
assistance in 1981 regarding the proposed project, following which the
Goverument commissioned a feasibility study for a program of investuents
financed by an IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$500,000,
carried out by SEDES/Groupe Huit, a consortium of French consultants in
1982/83. Throughout the feasibility study, there has been a close dialogue
between the Comité de Suivi (an interministerial committee established by
the Presidency) and the Bank Group. This dialogue helped to translate the
program of investments proposed by the feasibility study into specific
project components suitable for donor financing.



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The proposed project which vas identified ln 1981 is ln line with
government priorities and Bank strategy. Its objectives are to:
(a) increase the absorptive capacity of key agencies by providing
staff training, equipment, and a clearer and more appropriate
framevork for the management of urban investments;
(b) improve the living conditions of the urban poor in Djibouti,
particularly the residents of Balbala and the Old Wards; and
(c) introduoe more rigor in cost recovery practices, with special
emphasis on improving the revenue base of the local agencies
and recycling recovered project funds.
B. Project Components
3.02      The project will include the following five components which are
outlined below and described in detail in Annex 1.
<a) Old Wards.  Upgrading and drainage works in the Old Wards.
The infrastructure works vill alleviate stormwater damage and
provide protection from flooding of all low-lying areas.
Roads, increased water distribution, fire hydrants and refuse
collection will also be included.   The actions vill benefit
all the wards (161 ha. and 10,390 families) but will be par-
ticularly centered on wards 3, 5, and 6 (63 ha., 4,529 fami-
lies).
(b) Balbala.   Upgrading of a squatter settlement containing the
poorest segment of the population on a total of 137 ha. with
4,900 households; this will include provision of roads, public
lighting, refuse collection, and construction of a market.
Water is being provided under a separately financed African
Development Fund credit.
(c) Salines Ouest. A site and service development as a joint ven-
ture with the Société Immobilière de Djibouti (SID) on land
owned by them.   This will be a first phase development to
provide 176 plots, with the construction of 106 core housing
units ranging between 16 and 35 m2 each,  the remaining 70
serviced plots vill be sold vith services but no housing.
SID's contribution will include the land and housing units;
the project will finance the cost of the off-site and on-site
infrastructure.
(d) Institutional Support.  Technical support including staffing,
training and equipment will be provided to the Land Office,



- 13 -
the District of Djibouti, SID, CDD, and a small Project
Management Unit (PMU) (para. 3.03).
(e) Rousing Credit.   Credit for some 100 new housing units of
US$9,700 each approximately and some 600 loans of approximate-
ly US$1,400 each to improve existing houses in Balbala and the
Old Wards.
C. Institutional Support
3.03        InstitutionaL support and training is considered a key element
of the project in view of the much needed institutional strengthening of
the urban agencies  and accounts  for  24% of  total  project  costs.   It
includes managerial and financial assistance to SID and CDD technical
training for the staff of the LO and DD, as follows:
(a) Support to SID will include the provision of a specialist in
management  and  financial  institutions  to  assist  in  the
reorganization of SID into a more effective housing agency to
undertake low-income housing promotion activities and better
management of their existing housing stock.
(b) Support to CDD will be focused on strengthening the agency's
capabliity to finance low-cost housing ard ensure cost recovery
on their loans.   It wiLl include the provision of a financial
axnd managerial specialist and a work foreman.
(c) Support to the LO will strengthen the three divisions of this
agency (Public Property, Land Records and Land Conservation).
It vill include staff training abroad as well as advanced
training   at   the   Centre   de   Formation   Professionnelle
Administrative (CFPA) and on-the-job training.
(d)  Support provided to DD will aim at strengthening the Technical
Services Division which provides for household refuse collection
and disposal.  This vill include short-term training abroad for
the garage chief as well as a basic training program for diesel
mechanics and an advanced training for auto mechanics, both at
CFPA, as well as on-the-job training.
3.04        A project launch will be held to familiarize the personnel of
the urban agencies with all aspects of project implementation, including
Bank   and   USAID   requirements  regarding   procurement,   disbursements,
reporting, accounts and audits.   This is considered warranted in view of
the unfamiliarity of Djiboutian agencies with Bank and USAID-financed
projects.



- 14 -
IV. PROJWECT IMPLEMEUTATION DETAILS
A. Project Cbsts
4.01      The total cost of the Project, net of taxes and duties, is esti-
mated at US$15.2 million (DF 2,705 million), of which 62Z or US$9.5 million
is estimated to be forei8n exchange. This cost includes refinancing of an
IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$500,000 which vas approved in
1981 for project preparation and has been almost totally disbursed.
4.02      Physical contingencies amounting to 9.9% of total base cost have
been estimated at 15% for civil works based on preliminary desigas for all
sites.   Detailed designs for the infrastructure works  to be carried out
during the first year of the implementation period will be available by
Board presentation.   No physical contingencies were allowed for technical
assistance, studies or housing credit.   Price contingencies of 3.5% for
1984, 8.0% for l985, and 91 thereafter have been applied for both the
foreig- and local cost components.  The resulting price escalation factor
represents 17.6% of total base costs.   The project will be exempt from
taxes and duties. Summary cost estimates adjusted to January 1984 levels,
net of taxes and duties, are provided in Table 4.1 below. A more detailed
breakdown is provided in Annex 2.
4.03      Cost estimates for equipment and vehicles are based on recent bid
prices and quotations in Djibouti.  The costs of civil works and construc-
tion are in liae with the costs of recent similar works in the country.
4.04      The project provides for an estimated 55 man-months of consulting
services for the preparation of the detailed design and bid documents and
for uorks supervision. It also provides for 179 man-months of consultants
for technical assistance to the agencies involved in the project and to the
Project Management Unit.
B. Project Financlng
4.05      The proposed IDA Credit of US$5.0 million vill cover about 33% of
total project costs net of taxes plus refinancing of PPF.
DF lillion  US$ million   Z
IDA                                   889          5.0      32.8
USAID                                 978          5.5       36.2
Government                            480          2.7       17.8
SLO                                   179          1.0        6.6
CCCE                                  179          1.0        6.6
Total financing required          2,705         15.2      100.0



Urban Develoimmt rPro0ect
5.ry of Prolect Coota
w  million                       US§ $}iUtixi             X Yoreiga X IBss   x Ibtal
Local     -oreign      Dbtal     Local      Foreiga      Tbtal     M!£éLoLe   Cost    Cost
Upgrading of Old Wards           217.39      265.27      482.66      1.22       1.50        2.72        55       23.5     18.42
Upgrading Balbala                  97.74     139.35      237.09     0.55        0.78        1.33        59       11.5      9.04
Salines Oest )
Site & Service )                 105.61      150.08      255.69     0.59        0.85        1.44        59       12.4      9.72
Detailed Design &)
Supervision       )               34.01       58.41       92.42     0.19        0 33       0.52         63        4.5      3.54
Institutional Support            192.40      483.20      675.60      1.08       2.72        3.80        72       32.9     25.83
Housing Credit                    140.00     171.00      311.00     0.79        0.96        1.75         55      15.2      11.90
lbtal Base Cost                  787.15   1,267.31   2,054.46       4.42        7.14       11.56        61      100.0     78.45
Physical Cbntingencles            85.72      116.68      202.40     0.48        0.66        1.14        58                 7.75
Price orntingencies               137.97     222.21      360.18     0.78        1.25        2.03        62                 13.80
Ibtal Project Cost a/          1,010.84   1,606.20   2,617.04       5.68        9.05       14.73        61               100.00
PFF                               -           88.85       88.85      -          0.50        0.50
Ibtal Financing Kequired       1,010.84   1,695.05   2,705.89       5.68        9.53       15.23
a/    Net of taxes and duties.



- 16 -
4.06           The  IDA Credit  (US$5 million)  will  cover  40X  of  total
costs for vehicles and equipment net of taxes, 50% of total costs net of
taxes for civil and construction works, 50Z of total costs for detailed
design and supervision, 40Z of total coste for housing credit and
refinancing of the PPF amounting to US$500,000.  T1-, USAID grant (US$5.5
million) will finance a share of ail project components.  Caisse Centrale
financing (US$1 million) will cover institutional support to CDU and public
lighting in Balbala.   The Governument contribution amounting  to US%k.7
million will cover local salaries of project personnel, local expenditures
relating to consulting services, 20Z of total expenditures for housing
credit and additional operating expenses of the Land Office beginning in
1986.   The SI» contribution (USfl  million) will cover the core housing
units in Salines Ouest.   The Bank vill review the qualifications of all
personnel proposed for technical assistance and institutional support and
will approve all appointments made.
C. Flow of Foeds
4.07        The Government will make the proceeds of the IDA credit, the
USAID grant,the CCCE loan and its own contribution available to the
implementing agencies, either as grants in the case of components for which
there is traditionally no cost recovery or as subsidiary loans to SID and
CDD and government allocations to LO and DD where costs will be recovered.
To ensure prompt availability of funds at the start of the project, a
Revolving Fund (Special Account) will be opened at the Treasury with an
initial deposit of US$500,000, corresponding to the largest estimated
quarterly disbursement by IDA (para. 6.03 (b) (ii)). All disbursements by
IDA  will  be  made  to  this  special  account.    Government  and  USAID
contributions will be placed in a Project Account at the Treasury.  All
payments to the implementing &;eacier will be made by the PHU from the
Project Accouat and Special Account.  The ID/ and governaent couaterpart
funds for on-site infrastructure at Salines Ouest will be onlent to SID at
8X for a period of five years with three years' grace; the USAID and
counterpart funds for housing credit will be oalent to CDD at 6% for a
period of 12 years with one year grace. CDD will make loans for housing
improvement and new construction to final beneficiaries at 8% for 12 years
with one year grace.   CDI  presently makes housing loans at 8%;  this
interest rate will be nominally positive in real terms given the expected
inflation rate in Djibouti during the term of these loans. These terns and
conditions were confirmed at negotiations (para. 6.03(c)).   The flow of
funds is shown in Annex 4.
D. Project Implementation
4.08       The project will utilize the existing institutions and agencies
and will strengthen their operations as they implement the project.   The
Land Office will have contracting responsibility (maItre d'ouvrage) for
upgrading at Balbala and the Old Wards; execution responsibility (maltre
d'oeuvre) will rest with MPWUH). SID will have contracting responsibility
for the site and service project at Salines Ouest; execution responsibility
will rest with MPWUH (para. 6.03 (d). The District of Djibouti vill have



- 17 -
contracting respousibility for the construction of a small market at
Balbala and management of refuse collection ln the city, including the
low-income areas.
4.09          The PMU vill consist of seven people, a PMU director, aa
expatriate adviser, two accoantants, and three support staff (a secretary,
a driver and a messenger).  Appointment of the PMU director, who has been
selected after consultation with IDA, viii be a condition of credit
effectivenesa (para. 6.03 (a)).  The role of the PMU will be to:  program
project execution, ensure liaison between the executing agencies, authorize
payment for project expenses, administer technical assistance, and provide
for monitoring and overall supervision of the project, including the
preparation of consolidated project accouats and the Project Completion
Report.  The PMU will report to an Interministerial Co mittee made up of
the Prime Minister, the Cabinet Director of the Presidency, the Minister of
Finance, the Minister of Public Works, Urban Planning and Housing, and the
Minister of the Interior (para. 6.03 (e), and Annex 1). Chart I sumnarizes
the  flow  of  responsibility  in  project  implementation.          A  Project
Implementation Schedule is provided in Annex 5 and a Physical/Financial
Implementation Schedule reflecting the expenditures and physical and
financial contingencies for each year is ln Annex 6.



Ikli Inhwkpt &ojsd
1t 1 : F   of Iqxu bLft
, * Nmagint end coordinatiln
Project Mllaent Unit  * k±lvhrizatIoe project payInts
[p - .                   * freparatiml axsolidated acouants
* 9Srvisio  technical æsistaoe
* Irepaation of iro,ect oeqletile report
Mnisitry of Public IWrks          land Offfiœo|            S|,dEtE InbiliAre            DIstrict of Djibuti |     |s   da Mi.eloppemmnt
Urbsa Plaing aind using               (LO)                     de Djibouti                       (I1))                   de Djibuti
(SID)                          _(DD)
* Suervising upgrding of    * Sak of land, Oid Wards    * lbvelopoent Salines Ou(t   * Prov1salm refue              *  Cedtt applications
Old Werds end Balbla         aid Ballma                   site eid oervioe              ollectkn                  * Issaoœ new hm  and
* Supervising site & servioe   * Ipgrading of OLd Wards   * Sale of plots amd hDj       * Market oeottruCtmX         lima iaqrownt lins
Salines (Xst                 aid Baabula                  at Salines Qn8t               & mintoeaaoe Ballba       * LaM i umio it
* Preporatim  bidng          * Ismmoe of titles           * Iitituti±nal aapprt         * lqroue.nnt guraF          * Cost reoowry
c.ments                     * Laid  enxrvation           * (bst secoe>ry Salines        operantloed muintenance
* Planig and aivaisin        * Intitutimal aapport           oust                         fu Llhti   clee
lnfrastruuure wrks          * Lbet reoewry                                            * ltitutitUa1 supprt
* Mintenaoe of infre-
structure
* Building pernts



- 19 -
E. Procuremnt
4.10      Procurement arrangements are s.umarized in Table 4.2  below.
Table 4.2
Procuromeut Arrangements
(USO ilUons)
mot      Total
Project Klewent                  ICI      LCB    Other   Applicable   Cost
Off-site infrastructure          2.6                                     2.6
(0.8)*                                 (0.8)
On-site infrastructure           3.9                                     3.9
(1.4)                                  (1.4)
Harket, drain cleaning,                   0.9                            0.9
garage, land filling                   (0.4)                          (0.4)
Bouse construction               0.8                                     0.8
(0.0)                                  (0.0)
Vehicles                         0.5                                     0.5
(0.2)                                  (0.2)
Maintenance and )                0.3                                     0.3
office equipment)               (0.1)                                   (0,1)
Design and supervision                            0.5                    0.5
(0.2)                 (0.2)
Technical assistance,                              1.7                   1.7
training and studies                           (0.4)                 (0.4)
Project Unit support                               1.0                   1.0
(0.4)                 (0.4)
Housing credit                                               1.8         1.8
(0.6)      (0.6)
Incrementa' operating                                        0.7        0.7
expenses                                                 (0.0)       (0.0)
PPF refinancing                                              0.5         0.5
(0.5)      (0.5)
TOTAL                            8.0      1.0     3.2        3.0        15.2
(2.5)   (0.4)   (1.0)      (1.1)       (5.0)
*NOTE: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IUA.



- 20 -
4.11          Procurement of equipment and vehicles financed through the
Project vill total US$0.7 million; they will be packaged as far as possible
and awarded on the basis of international competitive biddiug (ICB) in
accordance with World Bank guidelines.  A margin of preference, equal to
15% of the CIF bid price of imported goods or the actual customs duties and
import  taxes,  whichever  is  less,  will  be  allowed  for  domestic
manufacturers.   Office equipment (US$0.l million) over US$10,O0O in value
and less than US$20,000 will be purchased through local competitive bidding
(LCB), in which foreign suppliers are eligible to participate, folloving
local  procurement  procedures  acceptable  to  the  World  Bank.    Office
equipment and supplies valued at lesa than US$10,OOO will be purchased by
local shopping with at least three price quotations (para. 6.01 (a)).
4.12          Civil works,  totalling  US$7.4 million,  comprising  roads,
drainage, water supply, sewerage and electricity will be awarded through
ICs, in accordance with World Bank guidelines.  A preference of 7.5% vill
be applied to bids from local civil vorks contractors, if any. Contracte
for simple works such as those for the cleaning of existing drains, land
filling, the construction of the Balbala market and the improvement of the
District garage facilities, totalling US$0.9 million, will be awarded
through LCB, following local procedures acceptable to the Associatinn
(para. 6.01 (a)).
4.13      Engineering services for detailed design and supervision, consul-
tants for training and technical assistance totalling US$3.2 million will
be obtained from consulting firms or consultants on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the World Bank.   Incremental operating expenses include
US$0.7 million for staff salaries, for which procurement is not appli-
cable.   All cont-acts above the value of US$50,000 for equipment and
US$100,000 for civil vorks vill be subject to prior Bank review; they vill
cover 75% of the value of works  and 75% of equipment value.   Other
contracts will be subject to post-award review.
4.14         Government's present procurement procedures generally allow
discretion to Government in awarding contracta. Agreement to comply with
Bank Group procurement guidelines and use procedures for LCB and shopping
that are acceptable to tle Association vas confirmed during negotiations
(para. 6.01 (a)).   Procurement procedures to be followed were reviewed
during appraisal and will be closely monitored by both the PHU and the
joint Bank and USAID supervision missions.



- 21 -
F. Disbursements
4.15      Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit of SDR 4.9 million
(US$5.0 million) will be made such that the total amount disbursed under
each category vill be as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures and 95Z of local expenditures up
to 40% of total coste of equipment, vehicles and supplies;
(b) 100% of expenditures up to 30Z ot total costs for civil works;
(c) 100% of expenditures up to 30% of total costs for consulting
services;
(d) 100% of expenditures up to 33% of total cost6 for housing
credit;and
(e) 100% refinancing of PPF.
The participation of USAID is expected to be in the form of joint
financing. An understanding concerning co-financing arrangements has been
vorked out between USAID and IDA which would accommodate the availability
of USAID funds in any particular year or for any contract since USAID will
share financing of all components. All contracts financed either by IDA or
USAID or jointly by both will be procured in accordance with World Bank
procurement guidelines (paras. 4.11 - 4.14). The Development Credit
Agreement containe the cross-effectivenese and cross-default clauses normal
for this type of co-financing. Both institutions vill keep each other
closely informed of any disbursement request as well as of any disbursement
made under said contracts.
4.16    All disbursements vill be fully documented and will be monitored by
the PMU. Refinancing of PPF (US$500,000) vlll be made as soon as the
credit becomes effective.  The estimated schedule of disbursement from the
IDA credit is shown in Annex 7. Since this is one of the first IDA
projects in Djibouti, there is no disbursement profile for the country.
The disbursement schedule used is based on the disbursement profile for IDA
credits in the region, adapted to take account of refinancing of the PPF of
US$500,u00 and establishment of a special account at the Treasury of
US$500,000.
G. Account8 and Audit
4.17      Separate project accounts vill be established by the LO, DD, SID,
and CDD.
4.18      The LO and PMU will be required to complete preparation of
financial statements of project transactions within three months of the
close of the government fiscal year. Auditorst opinions on these financial
statements will be prepared by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and
submitted to the Government and to IDA within eight months of the end of
the government fiscal year.  Independent auditors are available in Djibouti



- 22 -
and presently perfora such audits.   The audit report of the PMU vill
include a separate analysis of the use of IDA funds under the special
account.   CDD and SID vill be required to submit audited project related
accounts to IDA vithin eight montho of the close of cheir fiscal years.
4.19        Ihe PMU will prepare and transmit to the Association progress
reports each quarter that vill briefly identify major problems and
recommend solutions; review the performance of ioplementing agencies; and
maintain performance indicators in fulfilling project goals.
4.20       à Project Completion Report will be prepared by the PMU and sent
to IDA within six months of the close of disbursements.
B. Mnitoring, Evaluation und Supervision
4.21       lhe PMU will be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the
progresa of the project.  IDA supervision of the project, which vill  be
carrled out jointly with USAID, will require up to 95 weeks of staff and
consultant time over the period of project implementation.  Ibis level of
effort is justified by the technical assistance provided by the supervision
team.   The level of involvement vill be concentrated in the first two
years, after which the PMU vill have acquired greater management
experience.



- 23 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Cash Flovs
5.01       The cash flow for the project is shown in Annex 4.  By 1990 when
all proiect components have been implemented, the cumulative net inflows
for the project will be US$ 1.9 million. The cumulative surplus by the
year 1994 will be US$12 million. The bulk of the surplus funds relate to
the sale of government land and the recovery of infrastructure costs at
balbala and the Uld Wards in a shorter time than the repayment period on
other components. This surplus, which will be deposited in the Urban
Development Fund (UDF) to be established at the lreasury, will allow for
replicability of the project in other urban areas of Djibouti. The
establishment of an Urban Development Fund at the Treasury, to which all
directly recovered costs will be credited, including the sale of land at
Salbala and the Old Wards, will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that the UDF will be used to
finance further civil works in urban areas of Djibouti (paras. 5.07, 6.01
(g), and 6.03 (b) (i)).
B. Cost Recovery
5.02       The cost recovery measures adopted are snlch that they will relate
the charges borne by the beneficiaries to the benefits they receive.
On-site infrastructure costs in the Old Wards, Balbala and Salines Ouest
will be recovered directly through plot sales in the case of the Old Wards
and through property taxes in Balbala and Salines Ouest. Loans made by CDD
for home improvement and home purchase will be recovered directly through
loan repayments by the beneficiaries. Operating costs of CDD will be
recovered directly from beneficiaries through the spread allowed CDD on the
on-lending terms. The costs that are recovered directly account for 73% of
total project costs.
5.03      An additional 14% of total project costs will be recovered
indirectly through property and refuse taxes payable by the population of
the city. The costs recovered in this manner are off-site infrastructure
at ialbala and Salines Ouest, the incremental operating costs at LO and the
institutional support at DU to improve refuse collection. Refuse taxes are
paid to the LU by residents of tlie city, including the Old Wards but not
kialbala. Refuse taxes vill also be charged to Balbala residents once
collection is started there. An analysis of receipts on refuse taxes
carried out during appraisal showed an increase in collection during the
period 1980-82. Property and refuse tax collection will be closely
monitored by the joint Bank/USAID supervision missions. Both direct and
indirect recovery will be closely monitored by the PMU, IDA and USAID
supervision missions. Together, direct and indirect recovery account for
87% of total project costs. The balance of 13Z covers the institutional
support to LO, DD, SID, CDD and the PMU.  These costs are not considered
recoverable, and they will be absorbed by the Governinent. A breakdown of
cost recovery is summarized in Table 5.1 below.



\,                        W~~~~~~DIBOUTI
URBN DEWRT pRr
(DF mi)io)
Scledule of (ast Recoewry
(Net of taes end duties)
Mrect                  lndfrect
Plot       Loen         Property   Refuse   Absorbed by
'btal   Sales       pyTax                       Tai     Giermit
Upgrading of the Old Wards                       739      739
Upgrading Balbala                                347      283                      64
Salines Ouest                                    364      317                      47
Institutional Support
- Lande Registry Office                          313      230                      54                       29
- District of Djibouti                           210                                           195          15
- Société Imm,bilière de Djibouti                  9                                                         9
- Caisse de Développement de Djibouti            105                33                                      72
- Project Management Unit                        219                                                       219
Housing Credit                                   311               311
TOTAL                                          2,617    1,569      344             165         195         344
US$ Million Equivalent                          14.7      8.8      1.9            1.0          1.1         1.9
Percent                                          100       60       13              7            7          13



- 25 -
C. Recurrent Costa
5.04       The major share of recurrent costs attributable to the project
are for maintenance expenses, operating costs of the agencies and the PMU,
and the operation of the market at Balbala. Maintenance costs will accrue
primarily to the individual hone owners and landlords for maintaiuing their
dwellings. The Government will be responsible for maintenanoe costs on the
roads, drainage and water supply systems which amDunt to 5% of capital
works or approximately DF 11.87 million (US$67,000) in annual charges for
the Old Wards, DF 3.9 million (US$22,000) for Balbala and DF 2.4 million
(US$13,000) for Salines Ouest. Annual project related operating costs of
the implementing agencies will be recovered from the property tax and
refuse collection tax. The recur.ent expenses for operation of the market
at Balbala will be covered by direct user charges.
D. Affordability
5.05      According to surveys coaducted during project preparation, tenant
households in the Old Wards spend about 21% of their lncome on housing
(rent, water, electricity, and fuel) while households in Balbala spend 27%
of their income on lousing (rent, water, and fuel). Affordability calcula-
tions for Salines Ouest are based on household expenditures for tenants at
existing housing development estates at Einguela, Stade and Progrès who
spend about 30% of their income on housing (rent, water, electricity, and
fuel). The income distribution of households in these areas is preseuted
in Annex 9, page 1.
5.06         Home improvement loans will be available for improvement of
existing homes or for building additional rooms at Balbala and the Old
Wards amounting to DF 240,000 (US$1,370).  Based on an estimate of 15% of
income spent on house improvement, these loans (repayable over 12 years at
8Z) will be affordable by households above the 45th percentile in Balbala
and above the 7th percentile in the Old Wards. Calculations of affordabi-
lity have been done for the various options available at Salines Ouest,
Anne% 9, page 2. The various options are affordable by households ranging
from the l.th percentile for a one-room unit on a small (72 m2) plot to
the 35th percentile for a two-room unit on a large plot (120 m2). Plots of
160 m2i will be marketed com ercially and are affordable at the 41st
percentile level.
E. Replicability
5.07       A mechanism has been set up for replicability of the project in
the target areas of the city which were included in the feasibility study
but are not financed by the proposed project.  Detailed designs for the
proposed project are being financed by the Technical Assistance Project (CR
1303-DJI). Funds are included in the proposed project to finance detailed
designs of future sites and the Government will prepare by December 31,



- 26 -
1984 a priority plan setting down the sites that should next be upgraded
aid developed (para. 6.01 (e)). The Government will undertake to use the
funds allocated in the proposed project for preparation of detailed designs
for the proposed future sites (para. 6.01 (f)). The Goverament will also
undertake to use the funds recovered in the UDF to finance the civil works
for the proposed future sites (para. 6.01 (g)). SID will undertake to use
the funds recovered from the sale of plots and core housing units at
Salines Ouest to develop other sections of the Salines Ouest site (para.
6.01 (h>). The project wilL thus establish a clear means for replicating
the results by (i) establishing priorities for developnent of the future
sites, (ii) providing funding for detailed designs of the future sites, and
(iii) by establishing a means to finance future development of these sites
using the UDF (para. 6.03 (b) (i)).
F. Urban Poverty Impact
5.08        The poverty income level per capita amounts to DF 29,857
(US$168) per year. Ilousehold incomes amount to DE 179,142 (US$1,008) per
year. Over 90% of the households in the Old Wards (9,350 households) and
virtually 100% of the liouseholds in Balbala (2,500 households) have incomes
below the poverty level. Therefore, these components which represent 34Zof
total project costs, and will benefit slightly more than 11,850 poor
families, are virtually serving the target poverty group as defined by the
Bank.
G. Project Benefits
5.U9       lhe benefits from this project fali into two categories: direct
benefits to the final beneficiaries and indirect benefits and externali-
ties.  Direct benefits have been quantified for project components consti-
tuting 69% of total project e:osts and yield an overall weighted average
economic rate of return of 2ff.
5.10        Economic rates of return based on quantifiable direct benefits
have been calculated for the Old Wards, Balbala, and Salines Ouest sites.
Benefits were estirnated as a stream of incremental rental values, based on
surveys of inarket rents for similar housing in each area.  No adjustrnents
were made for possible changes in market prices due to tlhe project, as it
is expected that population growth will be adequate to sustain demand at
current real prices. Costs include all costs for infrastructure and



- 27 -
shelter construction, including shelter improvement, design and project
management, maiatenance costs and technical assistance to the related
implementing agencies.   The foreign exchange rate used in the calculation
is the same as the market exchange rate. The individual economic rates of
return, together with the results of the sensitivity analysis, the cost and
benefit streams are presented in Annex 8.
5.11      The indirect benefits of the project fall into two categories:
(a)  Improvement in capacity of urban institutions.
The project wi1L have a substantial impact on the key urban
institutions by improving their operations and enabling them
to  implement  future  projects.    The  overall  financial
management capability of these agencies will also be
enhanced.
(b) Enhancement of capacity for locally-financed projects.
It is not feasible to expect foreign financing to provide
the major portion of urban services and shelter needed by
Djibouti in  the  years  to  come.   This  project includes
initiatives-through the development of an urban development
fund at the Treasury and the financial participation of SID
in  Salines  Ouest-to  develop  alternative  methods  for
financing urban services and lower-income shelter delivery.
5.12      The benefits described above do not lend themselves to quantifi-
cation.  However they represent an attempt to create the capacity through
Institutions and approaches, to replicate the direct benefits of the pro-
ject.   They,  therefore,  constitute  an important justification for this
project.
K. Project Risks
5.13       The principal risks associated with this project are inherent in
the iixexperience of the institutions which will be involved in the imple-
mentation of the project.   Bank supervision efforts will pay particular
attention to these risks during the early stage of supervision. The speci-
fic risks are concerned with project execution capacity of agencies and
cost recovery.
5.14      Project Execution Capacity.  Weaknesses in the execution capacity
of the implementation agencies may lead to delays in the project.   This
risk is limited because of the special attention given tO institutional
support.   The possibility of slippage and related cost overruns will be
minimized by the provision of consultants who will assist the Government in
civil works supervision.   Implementation schedules have been adjusted to
reflect possible delays; the Bank missions will supervise closely the civil
works iin the first phase of upgrading in the Old Wards before allowing the
next  phases  to proceed.    In  this  way  adjustments  will be made  where
necessary.   Should implementation delays with the resultant cost overruns
occur, consideration vill be given to cutting back on the last phase in the
Old Wards and on housing credit.



- 28 -
5.15       Cost Recovery.  Djibouti has a tradition of non-payment for ser-
vices ln low-income areas; cost recovery is therefore a risk. Assurances
were reached at negotiations that the LO vill follow the measures provided
for land sale (para. 6.02 (a), and Annex 10) and that the funds collected
from the  sale vill be deposited  in the Urban Development  Fund  (para.
5.01).  This risk is reduced in the project because of the large pent-up
demand for land ownership in Djibouti.   Land acquisition ln the target
areas vill be tied to repayment of upgrading costs. New measures have been
established, at the request of the Bank, for obtainiug simplified building
permits with lower building standards for Balbala and the Old Wards (para.
6.OZ (b), and Annex 10).  These measures provide that owners of existing
structures in Balbala and the Old Wards vill have a period of three years
to purchase the land on which the structures are located.  An upgrading fee
equal to the prioe of 10 m2 of serviced land vill be charged to all
structure owners who do not undertake to purchase the land within the
prescribed period.  Should the owners not exercise their purchase option
within the three-year period, the plots will be sold by the LO to other
purchasers, with priority given to existing tenants to purchase these plots
within one year after the expiration of the structure owner's option.
These measures, which vill secure land tenure, will also ensure full cost
recovery of the Infrastructure costS (see also Annex 10, Article III.3A).
Repayment on housing credit will be closely monitored by CDD which will
receive institutional support as part of this project.



- 29 -
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACBED AND RECOHIENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)   The   Goverament  will   follow  World  Bank  procurement
guidelines and will use procedures for LCB and shopping
which are acceptable to the Bank (paras. 4.11 - 4.14);
(b)   The Government will provide:
i) suitable office space for the PMU (Annex 1);
il) additional office space for the Land Office, estimated
at 260 m2 (Annex 1).
(c)   The  Government  will  bear  the  following  percentage  of
additional operating costs of the Land Office (Annex 1):
1) 30% as of 1986;
hi) 100% as of 1987.
(d)   The Government vill gîve priority to the residents of the
dwelling units to be demDlished (one in Ward 5 and 34 in
Ward 6) to purchase each a plot in the Old Wards or in
Ba ;%lê (Annex 1);
(e)   The Government vill prepare by December 31, 1984 a priority
plan setting down  the sites  In the low-income areas of
Djibouti that should next be upgraded and developed (para.
5.07);
(f)   The Governrent vill undertake to use the funds allocated in
the proposed project for preparation of detailed designs
for the future sites to be upgraded and developed In the
urban areas of Djibouti (para. 5.07);
(g)   The Government vill undertake to use the funds recovered in
the UDF to finance the civil works for the proposed future
sites in urban areas of Djibouti (paras. 5.01 and 5.07; and
(h)   SID will undertake to use the funds recovered from the sale
of plots and core housing units at Salines Ouest to develop
other sections of the Salines Ouest site after repaying the
Government for the cost of infrastructure financed under
the proposed project (para. 5.07).
6.02      Conditions of Board Presentation
(a)   Ratified decree covering sale of land and recovery of costs
for infrastructure investments in Balbala and the Old Wards
(para. 5.15 and Annex 10);



- 30 -
(b)   Ratified decree covering simplified building permits with
lower building standards for balbala and  the 0ld Wards
(para. 5.15 and Annex lu); ana
(c)   Ratified  decree  covering  agreement  on  street  alignment
plans for balbala and the (la Wards (Annex 1, paras. A (1)
and B (1)).
6.03      The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)   Appointinent of the P?MU director (para. 4.09);
(b)   Establishment of:
i)  an  Urban  Development  Fund at the Treasury  (paras.
5.01 and 5.07); and
ii) a Special Account at the Treasury (para. 4.07);
(c)   Signature of the agreement between Government and CDD for
housing credit (para. 4.07);
(d)   Signature of the agreement between Governoent and SID for
execution of the Salines Ouest component (para. 4.Ub);
(e)   Official ratification of the dec:ree establishing ttie ?HU to
manage  and supervise  the Urban Development Project and
report to an Interministerial Committee which will have a
composition and will operate under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (para. 4.09).
6.04        The following is a condition of disbursement for the Salines
Ouest component:
--  That SID reduce ana thereafter maintain their arrears on
leased and lease purchase properties delinquent for more
than three months to less than 20% of their portfolio of
properties (para. 2.16).
6.05       With the assurances and conditions indicated above, the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 4.9 million (US$5.0 million) to tAie
Government of Djibouti.



- 31 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 12
DJIDOUTI
URIAN DEVELOPURET PR8JLCT
Project Description
1.        The proposed project includes the following five components:  Old
Wards, Balbala, Salines-Ouest, Institutional Support and'Housing Credit.
A. Old Varda
2.          This component consiste of significant improvements in living
conditions in all the Old Wards (161 ha., 10,390 householde), but
particularly in Wards 3, 5 and 6 (63 ha., 4,529 households).  It vill
improve roads, drainage, water supply and garbage collection, and vill
reduce the risks of flooding.   A Government decree covers agreement on
street aligament plan ratification of this decree is a condition of Board
presentation (para. 6.02 (c)).
3.        The works include:
(a)  Cleaning  of  about  3,700  m  of  existing  concrete
collectors, 1.00 m diameter, along avenues 13 and 26,
to improve the stormwater system in wards 1, 2, 3 and
4.
<b)  Construction of the Canal Ouest, 1,600 m. length, of
which 1,200 m. with concrete lining and 400 m. earth
made, to improve drainage in the whole of dowatown
area.
(c)  Construction of two sea outfalls at the end of the main
collectors in Avenues 13 and 26. They will be designed
to prevent sea water from entering into the collectors
during high tide levels.
(d)  Construction  of a dike, 1,200 m. length, along the
river Ambouli between the water pumping station and the
Arta road, to protect all low lying areas in Central
Djibouti against flooding. The dike will be earth made
with crushed stone embankments.
4.        The works in Ward 3 include:
(a) Construction of some 2,000 m. paved roads of different
vidths.
(b) Levelling of about 3,800 m. earth roads, 5.50 to 6.00
m. width, to assure adequate drainage towards the main
drains.



-32-                   ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 12
(c)  Laying of 170 m. pipes of 150 mm. diameter, of 850 m.
pipes of 100 m  diameter, together with one valve of
150 mm dianeter, six valves of 100 mm diameter and five
fire-hydrants,  to improve  existing water  supply and
fire protection in the wards.
(d)  Installation  of  three  containers  to improve garbage
collection.
(e)  Demolition of about 1,000 m2 paved roads and 1,700 m.
of curbstone.
5.        The works in Ward 5 include:
(a)  Construction  of  2,200  m  paved  roads  of  different
widths.
(b)  Levelling of about 4,200 m earth roads.
(c)  Laying of 970 m. pipes of 100 mm diameter, vith six
valves of 100 mm and four fire hydrants.
Cd)  Installation  of  three  containers  to improve garbage
collection in the ward.
(e)  Demolition of one dwelling.  Priority will be given to
dwellers to purchase a plot in Old Wards or Balbala
<para. 6.01 (d)).
6.        The works in Ward 6 include:
(a)  Construction  of  2,700 m. paved  roads  of  different
widths.
(b)  Levelling of 6,200 m. earth roads,
(c)  Laying of 200 m.  pipes 200 mm diaieter, of 1,110 m
pipes 100 mn diameter, together with 2 valves of 200
mm. diameter and eight of 100 mmi, and five fire
hydrants.
(d)  Installation   of   three   containers   for   garbage
collection.
(e)  Demolition of 34 dwellings.  Priority will be given to
dwellers tO purchase each a plot in the Old Wards or
Balbala (para. 6.01 (d)).



- 33 -                    ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 12
a. ulbala
7.          This component consista of improviug the iafrastructure of the
existing new sites (105 ha., 2,500 plots) and of the old center (32 ha.,
2,400 plots).  The project will improve roads, drainage, public lighting
and garbage collection.  Water supply has aot been included as it is being
financed by the African Developoent  Fund under a separate project.   A
Goverr-ment decree covers agreement on street alignment plans; satisfaction
of this decree is a condition of Board presentation (para. 6.02 (c)).
8.        The works lnclude:
(a) Construction of 3,000 m paved roade, of 7.00 m width.
(b) Improvement of 4,700 m. of 6.00 m earth roads, with 40
m. concrete culverts and 180 m. stone protected level
crossings in river beds.
<c) Provision of a public lighting system along major
-roade, consisting of one 50 KVA transformer station,
2,800 m middle tension (5 KV) and 7,000 m. low tension
overhead lines, with a total of 100 street lights.
<d) Installation of 10 garbage containers of about 6m3
each.
(e) Construction of a market 27x27 m, surrounded by walls,
with two main gates. It comprises two covered halls of
about 20x5 m each, where the main activities will take
place.    Along  the  valls,  small  stands  will  be
installed.
C. Salines Ouest
9.            This component consists of developing 176 plots, vith core
dwelling units on 106 plets on land owned by the Société Immobilière de
Djibouti (SID), along the Arta road, on the west side.  An area of about
175x160 m. (28 ha.) will be landfilled, 0.80 to 1.00 m. height.
10.       The works include:
(a)  Construction of 165 m. of paved roads, 7.00 m width,
will link up the area with the Arta road. In addition,
270 m paved roads of 4.50 m wide, and 350 m earth roads
of 3.00 m wide, will allow for easy access to ail
plots.
(b) Construction of concrete open channel along the paved
roads for drainage.  Earth roads vill be levelled In
such a way that surface water will drain into the



- 34 -                    ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 12
concrete channels. For this purpose, three culverts of
a total length of 33 m vill be constructed to allow
road crossing.
(c)  Laying of  170 m water main  of 200 am diameter  to
connect tLie site to the existing vater main of 300 mm
diameter in Arta road.  On site construction of 150 m
pipe of 100 mu. diameter and 590 m. of 80 m diameter,
with one valve of 100 mm. diameter and five of 80 mm.
Plots receiving dwellings vill be provided with private
house connections: in total 106, of an average length
of 5.0 m.
(d)  Construction of 1,300 m. gravity  sever of  200 mm.
diameter to connect the site to the existing Arhiba
pumping station. This puaping station will be provided
with new pumps and a 45,3 sump pump.
(e)  Some 1,000 m gravity sewers of 200 mm diameter will
ensure   sewerage   collection   within   the   area.
Constructed plots will be connected to the system.
(f) Installation of public lighting along the streets,
consisting of a 400 KVA transformer station, 900 m low
tension lines and 19 street lights. House connections
will be decided by the owners.
(g)  Installation   of   three   containers   for   garbage
collection.
11.       The 176 plots to be developed are classified in four categories:
Type A:  6 x 12 m - 72m2, 64 plots with dwellings
Type B:  8 x 12 m - 96m2, 28 plots with dwellings.
Type C: 8 x 15 m - 120m2, 50 plots of which 14 with
dwellings
Type D: 8 x 20 m - 16om2. 34 plots vithout dwellings.
According to the type of plot, the following houses will be constructed:



35-                      ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 12
Sa.tues Ouest
Type of   mumber      Type of                       Number of
Plot     of Plots  Dwelling       Des_ription      Dvellings
A - 72m2      64          AI       1 room - 12.75m2        64
1 sanitary hJ.ock
3.2m2
1 kitchen area
B - 96m2     28           Bl       1 room - 15.4m2         14
1 sanitary block
1 kitchen area
B2      2 rooma 18.2m2
12.2ni2        14
1 sanitary block
1 kitchen area
1 veranda
C- 120m2    50            C2      2 rooms 17.5 a2
12.2 m2        14
1 sanitary block
6m2
1 kitchen area
I veranda
D- 160m2    34
TOTAL     176                                           106
D. Institutional Support
12         This component air's at strengthening the urban services provided
by Government and parastatal agencies involved ln the urban sector and
includes support to the Land Office, the District of Djibouti, Société
Inmobilière de Djibouti (SID), Caisse de D4veloppement de Djibouti (CDD)
and a Project Management Unit.



-36 -                        ANNEX 1
Pa   6 of 12
L.d Office (LO)
13.       The actions proposed consist in strengthening the tbree divisions
of this agency (Public Property, Land Records end Land Conservation) by
providing  appropriate  staffing,  staff  training,  tecbnical  assistance,
equipoent arnd financing of operating coost during the first three years of
the project.
land Office
New        Annual Cost
Position                   Speciality      Exist  Position of New Positions
Publi  Prop rt                                               (DF '000)
Section Chief    Administration    1        -
Administrative Assistant          N                 1           1,730
Assistant Accountant        n                       1          1,150
Cashier                     n                1
Office Clerk                                        1          1,000
Typisc                    Secretarial               1          1,000
Land Records
Chief Engineer            Surveyor           1*     1          2,800
Techn. Operator             n1*+1                   3          6,480
Draftsman                       n            -      1          1,730
Chainoen                                     4      2          1,440
Office Clerk              Administration            1          1,000
Land Conservation
Section Chief             Administration    1
Mortgage Officer            n                       1           1,500
Bookeeper                                    1      l          1,150
Typist                    Secretarial        2      2          2,000
Total               2*+11    16         22,980
* Expatriate
(a) Staff tralning wil comprise:
i) Three-year fellowship for training an engineer-surveyor
abroad.
ii) Fellowship for accelerated training abroad of four
technician surveyors.
iii) Local advanced training, Centre de Formation Profesion-
nelle Administrative (CFPA).
iv) Organized on-the-job training.



37 -                     ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 12
(b) Tecbnical Assistance comprises the provision of:
i) One engineer-surveyor for 48 months.
ii)  One tecbnician surveyor for 36 mon.hs.
iii) One lawyer specîalized in property matters for 3
months.
(c) Supplies and equipment will be financed to make up the
requirements of the three divisions.   The Government will
need to provide suitable office spaoe, estimated at 260m2
(see para. 6.01 (b)).
(d) The operating coats resulting from this support are showv
below.  They vill be borne lu full by the project for the
first two years and partially ln the third year.  In the
fourth and fifth years these expenses will be the total
responsibility of the Government budget (see para. 6.01
(c)).
Cost 2stia,tes
Reerating Costs                             DY '000
(net of taxes)
Share of office costs                         3,800
Vehicle costs                                 4,500
Share of personnel costs                     47,900
TOTAL                                   56,200
District of Djibouti (Di)
14.        The actions proposed under the project aim at strengthening the
Technical Services Division of the District of Djibouti which provides for
housesiu2d refuse collection and disposal.  The project will also provide a
maintenance shop for vehicle repair of the fleet of refuse collection
vehicles.



- 38 -                     ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 12
District of Djibouti
New          Annual Cost
Position            Specialty            Exist.  Position  of New Positions
Refuse Collection                                                 (DF 'OOOs)
Chief, cleansing                             1
Asst. Chief, cleansing                       1
Chief, Collection section                    1   1 (to be seconded from
(another section)
Crew foremen                                 6   4
Sweepers                                    57  12
Drivers                                     33   -
Garage
Chief, garage           Diesel mechanic   1+1*
Chief, heavy vehicles                              i        1     1,730
Chief, light vehicles  Auto mechanic         1
Chief, stores           Administration       1
Qualified mechanic      Auto-diesel          2    8              13,840
Qualified mechanic      Automobile           3
Assistant mechanic                           7    1               1,150
Electrician                                  2    1               1,730
Crew foremaa            Bodywork             1
Welder-Body mechanic        "                4
Crew foreman            Painting             1
Painter                                      2
Maintenance Chief       Automobile                 1              1,730
Greaser                                      4
Washer                                       2
Duel officer            "    "               2
Tire officer                                 3
Totals           1* + 135   29              20,180
* Expatriate
(a) Staff training will include:
i) A basic training program at the CFPA consisting of
training 12 diesel mechanics for one and two-year
periods.    The  salary  payments  during the  training
period will be met by the project.
ii) Occasional advanced training courses of 2.5 months at
the CFPA for auto mechanics and assistant mechanics.
iii) A six-month training course abroad designed to round
out the garage chief's training.
iv) Organized on-the-job training.



39 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 12
(b) Materials and eguipment procurement vill provide for the
purchase  of six multi-tipper vehicles and equipment for the
garage.  In addition, the project wilL finance the transfer
of the garage to Base No. 2.
Société Immbilière de Djibouti (SID)
15.        The project will provide technical assistance to SID to help it
implement the Salines-Ouest investment component and establish a system
within SID for further development of low-income housing at the Salines-
Ouest site as well as elsewhere.   Supervision of the civil works vill be
provided by the Urban Rousing Deparroent of the Ministry of Public Works.
16.        It is proposed that SID be reorganized in the form of a direc-
torate general made up of two departments:
(a) Administration and Finance
(b)  Technical.
17.       The Administration and Finance Department wvii be responsible for
supervising the financing of the operations, ensuring the sale of the
units, managing the rental properties, collecting the rents and adminis-
tering the personnel.
18.       The Technical Department vill be responsible for the maintenance
of the rental property.
19.            The staff recommended  for  the Administration  and Finance
Department are as follows:
Société Imbiiire de Djibouti (SID)
Annual Cost
Position                  Specialty          Exist.  New    New Positions
(DF '000)
Department Head          Finance                      1              3,000
Administrative Asst.    Administration                1              1,730
Chief Accountant         Accounting              1    -
Accountant                                            1              1,730
Bookeeper                                        2
Acctg. machine operator                          1
Chief, Collection          Administration        1
Office clerk                      "
Cashier                                          1
Secretary                 Secretarial                 1              1,500
Total                 7    4              7,960



- 40-                       ANNEXi
Page 10 of 12
20.        The project will finance the assistance, for three mDnths, of a
specialist in administrative and financial organization to set up this new
structure  and  make  it  operational.    The  office  equipment  for  this
reorganization will also be included in this financing.
Project XMnageMEnt Unit (PMD)
21.       Purpose and Responsibilities.  A Project Management Unit vill be
created and vill assume responsibilty for the planning and coordination of
the entire project. Its responsibilities will be to:
(a) Program the execution of the project;
(b) Combine and issue the invitations for bids;
(c) Ensure liaison between the executing agencies;
(d) Administer the technical assistance and supervise the
water tariff study;
(e) Authorize payment of project expenses;
(f) Keep the consolidated accounts of the project;
(g)  Provide   monitoring   and   evaluation   of   the   overall
projet;
(e) Prepare a project completion report.
22.           Proposed Actions.   This office vill be created under  the
responsibility of an Interministerial Committee made up of the Prime
Minister, the Director of Cabinet, Office of the President, the Minister of
Finance, the Minister of Public Works, Urban Planning and Housing, and the
Minister of the Interior. Ratification of the decree establishing the PMU
is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 6.03 (e)). Outside of group
decisions arrived at in committee sessions, the Project Director vill
approach the Committee Chairman on any current matter.
23.       The project will finance all the personnel and material resources
needed  for the  establishment and operation  of the this  office.   The
composition of the team will be as follows:



-41-
ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 12
Project Manageoent Unit
Annual Cost
Position                     Specialty            New             DF'OOOs
Project Director            Engin/Admin.           1                3,400
Adviser to Proj. Man.       Management Spec.       1 expatriate   22,800
Admin. asst.                Accounting             1                1,700
Accountant                                         1                1,500
Secretary                   Secretarial            1                1,500
Driver                                             1                  700
Messenger                                                             500
TOIÂL                         I   7               32,100
.                                 _I
The Project Director will be assisted by an expatriate throughout the
entire fo.r-year execution period of the project.
24.       The project will finance the setting up and equipping of the
offices, together with two light vehicles- As counterpart, the Goverament
will be required to make suitable office space available for the Project
Management Unit (see para. 6.01 (b)).
Caisse de Développement de Djibouti (CDD)
Proposed Actions
25.       The structure recommended will be an Operations Department and a
Loan Departuent, both answerable to a Director. Technical assistance would
be provided to facilitate organization of the two departments and to fill
th.e position of a works foreman. ihis would include:
(a) 1 specialist in administrative
and financial organization             9 months
(b) 1 works foreman                          24 months
26.       In addition, the project will finance office furnishings, 1 small
vehicle and 1 microcomputer and will share in the office costs for a period
of two years.



-42-
ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 12
ltitutional Support Sumnary
(DF'OO0)
Technical assistance Provided                     Manronths   net of taxesi
Land Office
Engineer Surveyor                                     48            91,2001
Technician Surveyor                                   36            56,7001
Lawyer (propecty)                                      3             6,8001
Sub-Total                                 87           154,7001
District Technical Services   NONE
Société Immobilière de Djibouti (SID)
Specialist in admin. and fin.
organization                                     3             6,000
Sub-Total                                  3             6,000
Caisse de Dê-veloppement de Djibouti (CDD)
Specialist in admin. and fin.
organizatîon                                     9            18,000|
Works foreman                                    24            37,8001
Sub-lotal                                 33            55,8001
Project Management Unit
Management specialist                            48            91,200
Short term consulting                             8            18,400
Water Tariff Study                                _            10,000|
Sub-Total                                 56           119,600
lotal for Technical Assistance                  179           336,100
E. Bousing Credit
27.       This component would provide funds to Caisse de Développement de
Djibouti (CDD) for housing credit to beneficiaries in the target areas of
the project.  This credit would include:
(a) Credit for new housing:
100 loans of approximately DF 1.7 million (US$9,700) each;
(b) Home Improvement Loans
600 loans of approximately DF 240,000 (US$1,300) each.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
DJIBOUTI                      Page 1 of 5
URMBAN DEVELOPHNT PROJECT
Detailed Cost E8tiuates         Base:  Jan. 84
(DF ' 000)
Local       Foreign
Currency      Ethage           otaIL
I. OLD VARDS
A. Off-site
Cleaning of existing
main drains                     20,500        10,000       30,500
Construction Canal West        32,140         48,210       80,350
Sea outfalls                    9,140         16,960       26,100
Protection dike along
Oued Ambouli                  36,140         54,213       90,350
hase Cost A                       97,920       129,380      227,300
B. On-Site
Provision for relocation        14,400                     14,400
Roads and drains               91,150        111,380      202,530
Water supply                    13,920        20,880       34,800
Solid waste                                    3,630        3,630
Base Cosc B                      119,470       135,890      255,360
C. Consultants Services
Detailed design                 7,240         16,890       24,130
Supervision                     14,430        19,360       33,790
Base Cost C                       21,670        36,250       57,920
Total Base Cost                  239,060       301,520      540,580
Physical contingencies            35,860        45,240       81,100
Price contingencies               52,923        64,818      117,741
TOTAL COST                          327,843        411,578     739,421



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
DJIBOUTI                    Page 2 of 5
URBAN DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
ietailed Cost Estimates           Base:  Jan 84
(DE '000)
Local       Foreign
Cnrrency       EchgeTotal
II. BA&LBALA
A. Off-Site
Roads and drainage            30,360         37,030       67,390
B. On-Site
Roads                         34,950         42,700       77,650
Solid waste                                   4,020        4,020
Street lighting               25,330         47,000       72,330
Market                         7,100          8,600       15,700
Base Uost B                     67,380        102,320      169,700
C. Consultant Services
Detailed design                2,110          5,000        7,110
Supervision                    3,790          5,700        9,490
Base Cost C                      5,900         10,700       16,600
Total Base Cost                103,640        150,050      253,690
Physical contingencies          15,550         22,510       38,060
Price contingencies             23,152         32,352       55,504
TOTAL COST                          142,342        204,912      347,254



- 45                        ANNEX 2
DJIBOUTI                        Page 3 of 5
UIRBM DEVELOPHKNT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estiates          Base: J.i. 84
(DF '0003
local       Foreign
Currency       Exchange       TGotal
III.  SALIENS OUEST
A. Off-Site
Roads                         2,660          3,250       5,910
Water supply                  1,060          1,970        3,030
Electricity                   4,490          8,350      12,840
Severage                     12,670         19,010      31,680
Base Cost A                    20,880         32,580       53,460
B. On-Site
Site preparation             14,820         22,230      37,050
Roads                         3,400          4,160       7,560
WSater supply                 4,300          7,990       12,290
Electricity                   6,250         11,600       17,850
Sewerage                      9,560         14,340      23,900
Drains                        1,840          1,510       3,350
Waste disposal                 --            1,210        1,210
Base Cost B                    40,170         63,040      103,210
C.  House Construction             44,560         54,460       99,020
D. Professional Services
Detailed design               2,125          3,782       5,907
Supervision                   4,315          7,678      11,993
Base Cost D                     6,440         11,460       17,900
Total Base Cost               112,050        161,540      273,590
Physical contingencies         16,810         24,230       41,040
Price contingencies            20,217         28,947       49,164
TOTAL COST                          149,077        214,717      363,794



- 46-                       ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5
DJIBOUTI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates          Base:  Jae. 84
<DF '000)
Local       Foreigu
Currency       Ecchange       Ibtal
1V.  INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
A. Land Office
Investoents                    1,300         12,500      13,800
Staff training                   400        25,200       25,600
Technical assistance          14,800        139,900     154,700
Operating costs               50,200          6,000      56,200
Base Cost A                     66,700        183,600     250,300
B.  District of Djibouti
Technical Service
Investoents                  28,500        122,500      i5i,000
Staff training                13,600         2,100       15,700
Base Cost B                     42,100        124,600      166,700
C. Société Immobiliare de
Djibouti (SID)
Investcents                      200           800        1,000
Technical assistance             600          5,400       6,000
Base Cost C                        800          6,200       7,000
D. Caisse de Développement de
Djibouti (CDD)
Investments                      --            -            -
Technical assistance           5,800        50,000       55,800
Operating costs               25,000            -        25,000
Base Cost U                     30,800         50,000      80,800
E. Project Management Unit
tnvestments                      600         5,400        6,000
Technical assistance          11,400        108,200     119,600
Operating costs               40,000         5,200       45,200
Base Cost E                     52,000        118,800     170,800
Total Base Cost                192,400        483,200     675,600
Physical contingencies          17,500         24,700      42,200
Price contingencies             41,681         96,090      137,771
TOTAL COST                          251,581        603,990      855,571
=                 =         



-47 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5
DJIBOUTI
IlAUN  DKVELOPENT PROJBRCT
Detalled CGst Estimtes          Base: Jan. 84
(DY '00o)
local       Forelip
Crrecy  lEcbage       To>tal
V. OUSIIS CREDIT
Home improvement loans       64,800         79,200     144,000
New house construction
loans                       75,200         91,800     167,000
TOTAL COST                         140,000       171,000     311,000



- 48 -
ANNX 3
Pap 1 of 3
DJDMOI
nmDevLrm               POM
Orsmsat2m COIt
Nlitry of  mblUc Warka, * kbm  PlJng aid bulag
URBM DEVELOPU-P~fN
PUBLIC kDRX                                   MEN  AND HEUSIN«;
!  r-  m                               r   N~~~~~~~~~RU DEVEUOH
STUDIES DIVISION        INFRASTRUCUrlE         PUBLIC C0NS1RUC-          AND HDUSINC         ŒIERAL SERMCES
WORKS DIVISION          TION DIVISION             DIVISION               DIVISION
* Laboratory            . Equlpment pool        . Urban develop-       . Urban étudies         . Persomnel
j   Surveying           . 1achnical base           ment and            . Urban dewlop-         . Accouatlng
* Studies and           . Infrastructure           permits                uant opera-          . Elastlng Mnd
control                 maintenance         . Construction             tion                   regulations
. New uDrks               deslgn               . Sanitation,          . Markets and
. Naintenanoe œtudies                            road, utility           legislation
natlonal                                       networks            . Vocational
roads                                       . Hbusling                tralning
studies and
legislation
. Ibuulng works
supervlsi«o



- 49 -
ANNQM 3
Pag 2 of 3
w-w
Dn9ot: ibt llol:Lie  Dltrlet
~~ioe1ervices !poet~t
GeIEAL SlPPcI                                                                                  D
DIvisIoicDEI  IR R
. Payro .l
* Personnel
. Supplies
* Reoeivables
VDIICLE FLEET            SANITATIWN            PLANN1ING              IIJRKS          TRAFFIC AND PARKS
* Hintenanoe          *Street dlean-        *Urbmn tde1eop-      * %v works              T raff ic aid
• llpairs (l±ght         in                     ent Md           * I4aintenance           aigializatian
-yehic2es)           T 1ash collec-         permits           . Electricity         *  alintenancoe
*Repaire (heavy         ton (bouse-        * Qnutructlon        * Pluwinixg             De1velopoent
vyehicles)            holde)                desiWi                                     of parks
'frash collec-        studies
tion (public
pick-up
points)



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
DJIBOUTI
DBiRU  DEVEIOPUMT PDOJDCT
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
LAND OFFICE
PUBLIC PROPEKTY                 SURVEY DIVISION                 RECORDS AND TITLES
DIVISION                                                         DIVISION
. Application for               . Ground plans                  . Register and other
plots                         . Inf.l1 elevation                 records
. Verification of               . Plot demarcation              . Titles
data                         . General plans and             . Extracts and
. Award of plots                   mape                            information
. Sale permits                                                  . Registration taxes



r                CL 
+X I



- 52 -                                              A       4
Faqp 2 of 2
Ibtul
1984-199E4    198f.   1S13    198f,    D        1!18B    I1398  1S9I    1991    1912    15913   199F.
Source of Funds
I1A. Ctedit                   889         178     115     151      160     160      115      10
ULAI»                         978        1L0      Xe      20B      238     174       -
aLE                           179          -       18      88       73      -        -
GDvernanB   oitrilxbution     480          36      41      75       78     12)       130
SI» amtributdo                179         -        29      90       60      -        -
Sukotal                   2,7U5        394      411     612     579      454      245      10
BmnefidLary Paymnats
Lmd Balb.la                   317                          16       32      32       32      48      48      47       31     31
LEnd Old Wards              1,036                          52      104     104      104    155      155     155      104    103
Suktotal                  1,353                          68      136     136      136    203      2D3     202      135    134
BenfidLary Pepfyfmtsr
Balhala                       272                          14       27      27       27      41      41      41       27     27
Old Wards                     331                           17      33      33       33      50      50      50       33     32
Sajlnes ouest                 234                           -        9      18       27     36       36      36      36      36
Subtotal                    837                          31      69       78       87    127      127       7      96      95
TOTAL                         4,895         394     411     711      784     668      468    340      330     329      231    229
:1   1    _                                 -  --                                      - --
Applicatoim of Rnxds
QLd Wards                     739          17     246     245      lUO     131
Balila                        347           a      44     227       68       -
Salines c.est                 3S4           9     167     114       74       -
Insr tic ual Suppxrt          856          -      2B0     293    1i6       103
Hbusing ûredit                311           -      60      70       80     101
Refinaicing PPF                88         88        -       -        -     _
Subtotal                  2,705        122      797     949      502     335
Debt Service o tb%emanet
SI.D                           24                                            3       4        5       5       5        2
CIX)                           26                            1       2       3       4        4       4       4        4
ItTAL                         2,755         122     797     950      504     341       8        9       9        9       6
Surplus (Deficit)             2,140         272    (386)   (239)    280      327     460      331     321     320      225     229
Cumiulatie sturplus           2,10         272    (114)   (353)    (73?    254      714   1,045   1,366   1,686   1,911   2,140



53 -                      UANNEX 5
DJISOGT
URN DKY rOeM    PUOJICT
Project I.plemntatim Scledule
1985    1986    1987    1988
A. Old Wards
Off-site
Cleaning of existing main drain            -
construction of main drain
(Canal Ouest)
Sea outfalls
Protection dike along Oued Ambouli
On-site   Ward 3
Roads/drains
Water supply
Solid waste
Ward 5
Koads/drains
Vater supply
Solid waste
Ward 6
Roads/drains
'ater supply
Solid waste
B.  falbala
Off-site
Roada drains
On-site
Roade
Solid vaste
Street lighting
Market
C. Salines Ouest
Off-site
Roadt
Water supply
Electricity
Sewerage
On-site
Site preparation
Roads
Water supply
Electricity
Sewerage
Drains
Waste disposal
House Construction
D. Institutional Support
Land Office                              _     _      _     _
District Technical Dept.                    _     _      _-     _ 
Société Imnbilière de Djibouti
Caisse de Développement de Djibouti
Project KanageDent Unit                  -         _ __
E.  Housing Credit



ftjfrai/H±taI Ipltmamfes   ~sIejn              (Dr 'RD)
1986       _________                                 lUi lus87                                                     LUI                            lm1
lu=~ Fan=                  EL           mam l                    ML-    U ''  FOI        vu        U= ru         lm           L          U M    ML  L                 -   ML
off-aitf
mLin drain                                             20,500     10,00    30,500                                                                                                  20,500      10,000   30,500
cosroto of Min
,frui (cia1l  *iut)                                    32,140     48,210   80,350                                                                                                  32,10      48,2W0   80,350
mea o±faUa                                                                            9,140      16.960   26,100                                                                    9,140     16,I8     26,100
potecUan dii. 41cf
GMe /d,cuiLi                                                                         36.140      54.210   90,                                                                      36.4        I&M21    9D
&à-lbtal (ff-aLte                                        52,640      56,210   110,850   45,283      71,170   116,450                                                                  97,M2     129,3    227,3M
Oqf-ite A) ULhd 3
promiafm for r1toim                                      -          -         -
rooWadrains                                            23,660     28,910   52,510                                                                                                  23,660     28,910   52,570
iter mily                                            4,060       6,o00    10,140                                                                                                  4,060      6,Oo0   10,140
=oUd maltm                                                -        1,210    1,210                                                                                                  3"1,210   _0,310
ajb-etai  _r 3                                           27,720      36,7W    63,90                                                                                                   27,720     364,2     63,M
8) mkd 5
provin for ratio                                                                        40                                                        -                                                        4_0
roa/drau                                                                             18,18>      2222    40,40       9,470      11,2m    21,050                                    23,650     33,890    61,450
uter sçply                                                                            2.560       3.840    6,400    1,270 11900    3.170                                            3,W         5,740    9,570
solJd  * te                                              -                                                   80        -           410      410                                       -         1,210    1,210
ib-Ibtal Ikrd 5                                                                         21,142      26,80    48,000   10,740       13,890   24,630                                    31,82      40,750   72,63,90
C) Ward 6
pmuia1o for zujcatm,                                                                                                14,OOD         -     14,-                                      14,000        -      14,00
romis/drdalDh                                                                                                        89,0       10,SI0   19,810   30,2 37,780   68,7W              39,840     380670   88,510
Mt  mL2,y                                                                                                             1,990      2,990    4,910    4,M          6,070   10,110      6,00        9,060    15,090
somU  tme                                                                                                              - 800                600       -          410       410        -        -,210    1,210
ib,btaul lId 6                                                                                                         24,910      14,68D   39,530   34,M        44,2070 79,220    59,810        M,9b0  118,810
INEBSTIKIL SVCE                     1,500 for5,0          8,0       J2JO      20,00    _LOq_    9jX0    15,000    1,770             2-650    4,420    1,40        2,10          -       ,60         -      57,M»
luL xi. Mu 8c               4,5C0     10,500   15,000   88,360      106,410  194,770    72,420    107,030  179,450   37,420        30,830   68,250   36,360       46,750   83,110   239,C05    301,520  510,580
Phyuica Qxt1,Uu-Ia          670      1,583    2,250   13,250       15,960   29,210   10,860       16,060   26,9       5,630       4,620   10,250    5,450        7,020    12,470    35,860     45,240   81,10I
Prie *xu1unda               90         211       305    9,907      11,931   21,83S    15,615      23,079   3B,694   11,946        9.837   21,784    15,5        19,760   3S,126    52,3        6418  117,741
1OWIL  Sr                   5,260     12,291   17,552  111,517    134,301   245,818   98,S95    146,169  245,064   54,996          45,27   100,284    57,175      73,530   130,706   327.8a3    411,5M   739,421
-   - -   - -   -   -        -         -        -         -          -          -        -           -         --                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W3
1! 



DJkI
IUUE      -s_  aJu r                                                           Amux 6
Nh m.i_e1/HLg1  Woimt1mi 91.âia                     (IF 'oO)                         P;p 2 of 7
19_4                                                       lm__   _ _ _ _                19.                          .lm
Wi                        _    EEU DiL  'i    -DDo~                                                                 oL  ---
Ealblna
OEf-slte
Rie ad Draiagne                                      15,200     18,500   33,700   15,160      18,530   33,690                                 30,360     37,M0   67,390
art-ite
Pl,as                                                                              34,950     42,700   77,650                                 34,950     42,700   77,650
&>ld lhste                                                                          -        4,020    4,020                                     -        4,oe0O    4,o0
Stret Ughting                                                                     12,660     23,500   36,160   12,670      23,5C0   36,170   25,330      47,000   72,330
market                                                                              3,550      4,300    7,8      3,550       4,W0    7,850    7,100      8,600   15,700
Sab-btal OnrStre                                                                     51,160      74,520  125,680   16,220     27,900   44,020   67,380    10Z,320  169,700
Profesa1ixal Servios,
Itai1e1 Dsign & amig-
neerri                  2,110      5,000    7,110                                                                                              2,110       5,aoo    7,110
&ipervision                                               540        810    1,350    2,550       3,830    6,380       700      1,0e0    1,760    3,790       5,7C      9,490
Sib->al Profeslatoal
irvioes                 2,110      5,000    7,110      540         810    1,350    2,550       3,830    6,380      700       1,060    1,760    5,900      10,700   16,600
ITIPL BASE O6T             2,110      5,000    7,110   15,740      19,310   35,050   68,870      96,880  165,750   16,920      28,860   45,780  103,640    150,050  253,690
Physical  nt1iglels        320        750    1,070    2,360       2,900    5,260   10,330      14,530   24,860    2,540      4,330    6,870   15,550       22,510   38,060
Price (nnting.rmes         37          88      125    1,765       2,165    3t930   14,850      20,889   35,739    6,500      9,210   14,610   23,152      355,50
IVmL WST                   2,467      5,838    8,305   19,865      24,375   44,240   94,050    132,299  226,349   25,960      42,400   67,260  142,342    20$,912  347,254
-J



jinmm
'-Af  -WMR     alET
198                        If5                          1986                         1987               _       _    _     _
WacÀL      -       IDEL ,  -i D           D       L vu   WIXL       -m11 L    'L                  D'L   IWaL                ED        1L
saUùxe-Qmst
Uff-SLte
IbA                                                                              2,660      3,250    5,910                                 2,660      3,250    5,910
Wkter Sspply                                        1,060      1,970    3,030                                                              1,060      1,970    3,030
Electricity                                                                                                   4,490     8,35U   12,840    4,490      8,350   12,840
&weage                                             12,670     19,010   31,680                                             _       _       12,670     19,010   31,680
Sb-lbtal oet-St.e                                    13,730    20,980   34,710    2,660      3,250    5,910    4,490      8,350   12,840   20,880     32,580   53,460
Site Prepration                                    14j820     22,230   37,050                                                             14,820     22,230   37,050
Fmid                                                                             3,400      4,160    7,560                                 3,400      4,160    7,560
Water Sipply                                        4,300      7,990   12,290                                                              4,300      7,990   12,290
Electricfty                                                                                                   6,250     11,600   17,850    6,250     11,600   17,850
Soerage                                             9,560     14,340   Z3,900                                                              9,560     14,340   23,900
Da1u                                                                             1,840      1,510    3,350                                 1,840      1,510    3,350
Waste Dispoeal                                                ______                                            -        1,210    1,210      -        1,210    1,210
B9Ibtal k-rSlte                                       28,680     44,560   73,240    5,240      5,670   10,910    6,250     12,810   19,060   40,170    63,060  113,210
bs  onstnction 9e000                                             11,000   20,000   28,790     35,190   63,980    6,770     8,270   15t040   44,560     54,460   99,qO      ,um
Profelional Birvloes      2,170      5,050    7,220    1,6W       2,40j    4,000    1,2O       1,800    3,000    1,470     2,210    3,680    6,440     11,460   17,900
1T'L BASE WIST            2,170      5,05O    7,220   53,010     78,940  131,950   37,890     45,910   83,800   18,980    31,640   50,620  112,050    161,540  273,590
1iysical Contu ngmes      320        760    1,082    7,950     11,850   19,800    5,690      6,880   12,570    2,850      4,740    7,590   16,810     24,23    41,0$0
Price OnLmneclaes          44        102      146      5944     8,852   14,796    8,171      9,898   18,069    6,058     10,095   16,153   20,217     28,"97   49,164
'%YMLC OBT                2,534      5,912    8,446   66,904     99,642  166,546   51,751     62,688  114,439   27,888    46,475   74,363  149,077    214,717  363,794
_ -                  -         -        -        _          -        -        -          _        -              _ -       __-_



- -mw
n~~.fR*IMi1  l tad ui<  'arn)
ii~~~~ -M  inm DwU    -'  woeSL                                                                       IDa Ri               -9 iawD
1. land egatry Office
A. Inve a
- office elLipmnt       1,300      5,100    6,400                                                                                               1,300      5,10D    6,4I0
- auvey equdpit                    3,5()    3,500                                                                                                          3,500    3,500
- vehlee, 4 h.p. (3)               3,90D    3 900                                                                                                          3,900    3,900
Sjb-1btal A             1,300     12,500       1î =;i                                                                                                     I2,500   13,80D
B. Staff ralintrE
- trainrg dbro  (5
fe1Iowm1p4, 84 v1.)             18,000   18,000                3,60X    3,600                3,600    3,600                                             25,200   25,200
- local aivmced train-
lng                     200                  200      200                  200                                                                  400                 4m
Sjb-Ital B                200     18,000   18-2w     2-    3,t             3 ,60 3                                      425,
C.  wldmical Asais
- 51r/aurvepr
48 miz                2,C00     20,00   22,800    2,000      20,81»   22,800    2,OOl      20,800   22,800    2,O0       20,800   22,800    8,000      83,200   91,2W
- kcfd.ai/rurieor
36 Wm                 2,000     16,90    18,900    2,U00      16,900   18,900    2,000      16,900   18,900                                   6,U00     50,70a   56,700
- lavi:i pubUec
pruperty 3 l./          800      6,C00     6 800                                                                                                 0       6,C00    6
&àb-btai C              4,0       43,7m               4,300       ,700   4700    4,000        37,00   41,700    2,00        20,8m0    W2O      14,800    139,900  154,700    u
D. Operitirg cots
- Siare of office
cast                    500      l,OO      1,5w0      500      1,0o      1,500      3C0        500     8am                                    1,300      2,500    3,100
- %thicle costs           300      1,000    1,300       300      I,aO      1,300      300      1,000    1,300       100        500      600    1,i0»       3,500    4,5
- Additomil pazm,l
Costa
- llchiciais (3)                                    6,500                6,500    6,500                6,500                                 13,000               13,000
- kaier (1)           1,700                1,7W     1,700                1,700    1,700                1,700                                  5,100               5,100
-Main. Ast.           1,700                l,70     1,700                1,700    1,700                1,700 51100                                                5,100
- Others (10)        10,300               1        10 300               10 300    4 100                4 100                                 24.70D              24.700
Bab-lrtal D            14,500      2;                216,0CO     2,      Z3,0)                 1,50D   I9          iX                          _ Z  50,1V  6 M     56,20D
mIL &IS 0cT               20,18      76,200   97,(XV    25,200     43,300   68,500   18,600      42,8m    61,400    2,10D      21,30D   23,400   66,700    183,600  250,30D
Physical C,nthLeni      3,6C0      1,200    4,800    2,60D         900    3,500    2,200         800    3,000       800        400    1,20      9,200      3,300   12,50C
Price (bntingenies      2,379      7,547    9.926    5,13        8,288   13.500    5.772      12.099   17.871    1,066       7,975    9,041   14,430      35,909   50,339
IDI1L WST                 26,779     84,947  111,726   33,013      52,488   85,500   26,572      55,699   82,271    3,966      29,675   33,641   90,330    222,809  313,139
-. -    -         --                                        -                                                         -
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Ibamdfr.M miea1  wme=rlnn q44na                      (Dr to0m)
1985                         1"6                           197                            98                          IE
_--EN   13UL  WWL '                              IOR.D L    - D IL              i-                             -    mL 
II. District cf Djibouti
A. Invstmnits
- garage 4zrrait  28,5(X)       42,000   70,500                                                                                             28,5W0     42,000   70,500
- moterial  d24
equip-nt                       14,500   14,500                                                                                                        14,500   14,500
- ..alti-tipper ve-
hidcles (6)        _                                        66,000   66,000                                                                          66,0OM    66,000
a&b-lbtal A          28,s5w     56,500   85,000               66,w0    66,000                                                               28,500    122,50D   151,00
B.   f fTa1niz
-  ra1ini  abLral:
I for dca  train                                                                                                         2,100                        2,100    2,10W
12 for 12-24 omths  2,200               2,2W      4,40o               4,400    4,400                4,400    2,200                2,2W    13,200               13,200
-  dvaned lainln 
14 for 2-5 amthfi     100                 100       100                                                                                                                 CD e  lo lolo   D4
14for2-5ra~~~~~Uu  100  100      100 ~~~~100                   100                  100      100        -100               400 
9T-lbtal B           2,300               2,300    4,5C0                4,500         4,500           4        2,3C       2,100    4,40W   13,600       2,100   15,700
21L BASE 0ST              30,80      56,5$C    87,300    4,500     66,03    70,500    4,50                 4,500    2,300      2,100    4,400   42,100    124,60   166,700
Rhysical Contingenie     3,100      5,700    8,e8       400       6,600    7,000      400                  400      200        200      400    4,100      12,50    16,600
Prioe con trofra         3,305      6,065    9,370      919      13,613   14,531    1,360                1,360      919        845    1,764    6,503      2D,523   2
TuDL ŒST                  37,205     68,265  105,470    5,819      86,213   92,Q31    6,260                6,260    3,419      3,145    6,564   52,703    157,623  210,36
Io



- -     ow(wer
--- LT-  ERDX
w-   -                                -           - -  w-    -                        -E .~ -                      NE      -                      ZE
de DJibazti
A. 1nwastt
- offioe equLpit                                        200         80      100                                                                         080              1,0
B. Indic.a1 Az1.Eoe
- a"~ciafl.at In orgmimat n
1 for 3 mxtliah                                       6W0       5,400    6,000                                                                     6C0       5,#3      6,JO
'ML  HASE x6r                                               1800       6,Z00    7,000                                                                     800       6,200    7.000
Pre <hiotz'uxipt                                           169       1,27S     1,444                                                                     169       1am5     1,*4
iLL   00nr                                                 1, 69       8,075    9,144                                                                    1,069      8,275    9,144
'b
IV.   ri. de D6wl.oççe.mt
de Djibouti
A. imical Assis
-pecialift in orgalzatim
I for 9 mnthl                                       1,00       16,2C0    18,0O0                                                                   1,800     16,200    18,000
- wrk formn, I for 24 u=nths                          2,C00      16,900   18,900     2,000      16,900   18,900                                     4,000     33,800   37,800
B. Oçersting Co6t
- Sare of office cots                                10,000                10,000   10,000                10,000    5,000                 5,000   25,000                25,-M
TL BASE OOST                                              13,S8       33,100   46,900    12,C00      16,900   28,900      5,000                5,O00   30,SW       50,000   80,800
1hysical (       nntigtes                                  700       1,700    2,400       600         800    1,400       200                   200    1,50D       2,500    4,000
Prîoe <bntUxLmiea                                        2,719       6.525    9,244    3,497        4,912    8,408    1,911                  1,911     8,121     11,437    19,564
luiAL (X6T                                                17,219      41,325   58,544    16,097      22,612   38,708    7,111                  7,111   40,427      63,937   10S,364
o.



I     ffa 3/n aa1   Efltu= uh.                    E00
îms                          1%6                            _                            lm                           lm
V. Project Vm_mt
Ulit
A. invoetatB
- offile equiplt       600      2,200    2,800                                                                                                600      2,20      2,W00
- Yeldeles 6 H.P. (2)           3,200    3200                                                                                                          3,20D    3,2
9Sb-1atal A             6mi      5,4W     6,000                                                                                                600      5,400    6,t00
B. Ilcai Aasistazc
-  l     it apeclalut
I for 48 umnths     2,00M     20,800   22,80      2,000     20,800   22,8M     2,000      20,800   22,80     2,000     20,800   22,800    8,000      83,200   91,200
- Water tariff
etuiy                ,0O0      9,000   10,000                                                                                              1,00       9,000   10,OOD
-  ific assis-
tane, 8 Wm            600      4,000    4 60D       600      4,000    4,600      600       4 000    4 600      600      4 000    4 600    2.400      16 00    18 400
Sj-lrbtal B           3,60      33,800   30                   24,800   27,400    2,6C0       4, 800            2,600     24, 20             11,400    1o0,200  119 à
C, Operatirg Costa
- off ice oexpe         70         500    1,200       700        500    1,200      700         500    1,200      700        500    1,200    2,800       2,O0D    4,80 
- whcle expeq           200        I0I    1,000       200        800    1,OOD      200         800    l,C0       2C0        800    1,003       800      3,23    4,000    e
- Perarxm1 (bta:
Pmojert Dirertor    3,400                3,40D    3,400               3,400    3,400                3,400    3,400                3,400   13,6C0               13,600    a
kàn. Asst.          1,700                1,700    1,700                1,700    1,700               1,700    1,700                l,70     6,8M0                6,800
kcotant             1, 5w                1,500    1,500               1,50      1,500               1, 5)    1,500                1,50W    6,000                6,000
scretary            1,500                1,500    1,500               1,500    1,500                1,500    1,500                1,500    6,000               6,000
Sqf,rt *aff (2)    1>003        100               I l,O               1   I   1 00                  1,000   l,oO                 1,000    4          ___      4 000
sib-btal C           10,000           1   10 l                 1,3WY   113C       «          1,30    TIw       0,00       I        1,5                  S,20
'L BASE cmT               14,200     40,500   54,700   12,600       26,100    38,7a0   12,600   26,-o00   38,700   12,460     26,100   38,700   52,000    118,80M  170,8
hyo1icaQl (bntingew       800       1,900    2,700      600       1,300    1,900      600       1,300    1,900      6O       1,300    1,900    2,60O       5,800    8,400
Prim (bntigaenas         1,463      4,134    5,597    2,475       3,138    7,613    3,663      7,604   11,267    4,851      10,07    14,921   1   52       ,946 239,9
AIU\L CM                  16,463     46,534   62,997   15,675      32,538   48,213   16,863     35,(XS   51,8S7   18,051      37,470   55,521   67,052    151,546  218,5%
-Ir
0



- 61 -                       ANNEX 7
DJIBOUTI
UR   DIVLOPNT PROJECr
l bursemant Sebedule
<175$ milllon)
Benk Fical Year                                       Cluatiie           Z of
Seuester Ending              Disburseimat            Ddsbursemets        lbtal
1185
December 31, 1984               0.80                     0.80             16
June 30, 1985                   0.20                     1.00             20
1186
December 31, 1985               0.30                     1.30             26
June 30, 1986                   0.35                     1.65             33
1187
Deceuber 31, 1986               0.40                     2.05             41
June 30, 1987                   0.45                     2.50             50
1188
December 31, 1987                0.45                    2.95             59
June 30, 1988                   0.45                     3.40             68
1189
December 31, 1988               0.45                     3.85             77
June 30, 1989                   0.45                     4.30             86
1190
December 31, 1989               0.35                     4.65             93
June 30, 1990                   0.30                     4.95             99
D991
December 31, 1990               0.05                     5.00            100



- 62 -
ANNEX 8
Page e of 3
DJIBOUTI
URBAN DEVELOPHNET PROJECT
BEonolic Rates of Ieturn, by Cbmponent Mmd Ibtal
Salines
Old Varda   Balbala    Ouest    Ibtal
Base Cost                           34           38        18       26
Cost + lOX                          30           34        16       24
Benefits -10Z                       30           34        16       23
Costs +lZ   )                       26           30        14       21
Benefits -10%)
Coat und Benefit Streams
1. Coste, Old Vards, Balbala mmd Salines O4est
(a) Costs used are January 1984, net of taxes.
(b)  Annual operation and maintenance are 5% of investment costs for
Old Wards and Balbala, 2% of investment cost for Salines Ouest.
(c) Physical contingencies included in the costs amvunt to 15% of
infrastructure costs.
(d)  The shadow foreign exchange rate le the market exchange rate.
(e)  Technical  assistance  to  related  implementing  agencies  (Land
office, CDD, SID)
2. Benefits, Old lWards
(a) Incremental rents* on similar housing in the Old Wards used to
estimate incremental benefits.
(b) 8485 households in Wards 1, 2, 4, and 7, DF 1,500 per month.
(c)  4529 households in Wards 3, 5 , and 6, DF 3,000 per month.
(d)  Ass;umed time path of benefits:
1986 - Wards 1, 2, 4, and 7
1987 - Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 7
1988 - Wards 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 7
1989 onward - Wards l, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7
*Sources of rents: Surveys by Consultants during Project Preparation
updated to January 1984.
o



- 63 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
(e) While the project w1il benefit all the town oeœnter, the project
has been conservatively estimated to benefit only the population
of the Old Wards.
(f)  Although the surveys on rents  have yielded the best available
estimates of rental values, the results may be subject to sampling
problema and should therefore be interpreted vith caution.
3. Basefita, Balbala
(a)  Benefits were measured in the same manner as for the Old Wards.
Incremental rents on similar housing in Balbala used to estimate
incremental benefits.
(b)  4,900 households, DF 3,000 per month.
(c) Assumed tîo path of benefits:
1986: 33Z of benefits
1987: 67% of benefits
1988 onward: 100Z of benefits
4. Benefits, Sa.unes Ouest
(a) Benefits vere measured in the same manner as for the Old Vards.
Incremental rents on similar bousing  in Cités and Stade used to
estimate incremental benefits 176 households, DF 30,000 per month.
(b) Assumed time path of benefits to 176 households:
1986: 25% of benefits
1987: 50Z of benefits
1988: 75Z of benefits
1989: 80% of benefits
(c)   Incremental value of 71 ha. of additional land at Salines Ouest
as a result of accesa to services (calculated on the basis of the
difference between incremental investnent in Infrastructure and
construction costs and incremental rental value).



- 64 -
DJIBOUTI                    ANNEX 8
UtBAN DEVKLOPXENT PROJECT            Page 3 of 3
Cost mmd Benefit Streams
(DF' 000)
Old                         Salines
Vards          Balbala        Ouest
Project Costa              _
Ibtal
Costs
1984                   17,552            8,305         42,046        67,903
1985                  273,750           72,172        194,478       540,400
1986                  271,089          252,374        140,464       663,927
1987                  128,222           95,198        102,301       325,721
1988                  147,095           33,697        392,982       573,774
1989                   36,971            17,308       242,377       296,656
1990                   36,971            17,308       361,637       415,916
1991                   36,971            17,308        37,344        91,623
1992                   36,971            17,308        27,053        81,332
1993                   36,971            17,308        27,053        81,332
1994                   36,971            17,308        27,053        81,332
1995                   36,971            17,308        27,053        81,332
1996                   36,971            17,308        27,053        81,332
1997                   36,971            17,308        27,053        81,332
1998                   36,971            17,308        27,053        81,332
1999                   36,971            17,308        27,053        81,332
2000                   36,971            17,306        27,053        81,332
2001                   36,971            17,30E        27,053        81,332
2002                   36,971            17,308        27,053        81,332
2003                   36,971            17,308        27,053        81,332
Project Benefits
Tbtal
Benefits
1984
1985                     --               --             --            -
1986                  187,026           58,800         21,196       267,022
1987                  210,084          117,600         37,036       364,720
1988                  231,792           176,400        52,876       461,068
1989                  268,548          176,400         68,716       513,664
1990                  268,548          176,400        179,995       624,943
1991                  268,548          176,400        263,155       708,103
1992                  268,548           176,400       346,315       791,263
1993                  268,548          176,400        429,475       874,423
1994                  268,548           176,400       429,475       874,423
1995                  268,548          176,400        429,475       874,423
1996                  268,548           176,400       429,475       874,423
1997                  268,548           176,400       429,475       874,423
1998                  268,548           176,400       429,475       874,423
1999                  268,548          176,400        429,475       874,423
2000                  268,548           176,400       429,475       874,423
2001                  268,548           176,400       429,475       874,423
2002                  268,548           176,400       429,475       874,423
2003                  268,548           176,400       429,475       874,423



- 65 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
DJIBOUTI
,BA  DEVELOPET PRDECT
Distribution of Housebold Incooe:
Old lbrds, Balbala, and Existing BousIng Estates
(DF per Dmnth)
Exist1ng
nous ilg 1/
Rercentile                               Old Vards    Balbala      EstatÔS
1                                      7,000        1,000      15,000
10                                     25,000        2,500      50,000
20                                     37,000        8,000      Î9,000
30                                     47,500       11,500      84,000
40                                     58,500       14,500      103,000
50                                     70,000       19,000      123,000
60                                     85,000       24,000      145,000
70                                    100,000       31,000      170,000
80                                    126,000       43,000     205,000
90                                    170,000       60,000     270,000
1;X                                    400,000      150,000     550,000
_j Incomes of households at Einguela, Stade and Progrès Housing Estates
used as representative of incomes of Salines Ouest beneficiaries.
Source: Surveys by  consultants  during  Project Preparation  updated  to
January 1984.



- 66 -
AN=E 9
Page 2 of 2
Sal3Jes Goat
Taking into accouat tbe following costs and conditions:
Repayment period            12 years
Interest rate               8%
Down payment               20%
Peroentage income allocated by households:
30% for a plot with construction (2 rooms)
25% for a plot with construction (1 room)
15Z for plot oaly
Plot Sizes
A                B                      C                 D
(72m2)           (96m2)                 (120m2)           (160m2)
Construction                        A1 Bi                  B2          -          C2            -
Land cost                         129,100    172,200       172,!60   215,2W0    215,200    286,940
Infrastructure                    518,400    724,800      724,800   951,000    951,000  1,394,400
Bouse construction              1,048,300  1,174,100   1,805,200        -      1,953,200        -
Land and Construction Cost    1,695,800  2,071,100   2,702,160 1,166,200  3,119,400  1,681,340
Loan placement and
Hanagement fee (10%)              169,580    207,110      270,216   116,620    311,940    168,140
Sales price                     1,865,380  2,278,210   2,972,380 1,282,820  3,431,340  1,849,480
Monthly paynent                    16,047      19,598       25,569    11,035      29,517      15,910
.1ontly income at which            64,188      78,392      85,230    73,567       98,390    106,067
affordable (ia DF)
Percentile at which                 18%         25%          30%       25%          35%        41%
affordabLe
Nota: Calculation based on oosts and inoone, January 1984



-67-                        AINNEX 10
Page 1 of 8
M[NISTRY OF PUBLIC 1ORKS
IUBAN DEKVEOPENT AND ROUSING
RRPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
ORDER NO. 83-1202/PR/TP
Goveralng Construction and the Upgrading
of Woodea Duellings into Bouses Built of
Permanent Materials
RAVING REGARD TO constitutional laws Nos. 77-001 and 77-002 of June 27,
1977;
HAVING REGARD TO Ordinance No. 79-002 of June 30, 1977;
HAVING REGARD TO Decree No. 82-041/PR of June 5, 1982 appointing the
members of the Government;
RAVING REGARD TO the Decree of July 29, 1924 fixing and organizing private
property in the Territory and the implementing order of December
8, 1926;
RAVING REGARD TO Order No. 1299 of December 23, 1940, as amended by Order
No. 275 of March 4, 1949 subjecting all private and public works
to prior authorization;
BAVIàG REGARD TO Order No. 77 of August 11, 1951 regarding building
permits;
BAVING REGARD TO Order No. 631 of June 12, 1952 declaring the urban
development plan for the city of Djibouti and the operations
entailed thereby to be ln t:-e public interest.
HAVING REGARD TO Order No. 73-1580 SG/CG October 21, 1973 establishing the
procedure for the examination of documents and issuance of
building permits;
UAVING REGARD TO the opinion of the Mbnitoring Commaittee for the Djibouti
Urban Development Project of July 3, 1983;
FOLLOWING presentation by the Ministry of Public Works, Urban Planning and
Housing
The Council of Ministers having been heard at its meeting on July 16, 1983,
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC NOW HEREBY ORDERS AS FOLLOWS:
Article I: A special building permit procedure is hereby established for
the construction and upgrading of wooden homes existing on the date on



-68-                        ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 8
which this order is promulgated for Districts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 and
Balbala,
Article Il:  The building permit shall cover constru:-lorn of or upgrading
to permanent materials, limited to a one-floor structure only.
Article III: The building permit shall be issued by the Commissioner of
the Republic, Chief of the District of Djibouti, after an opinion is issued
by the Head of the Public Property Service and the Ministry of Public
Works, Urban Planning and Housing.
Article  IV:   Applications  for  building  permits  shall  be submitted  in
duplicate,  filed  with  the  Urban  Development  and  Housing  Department
(Direction de l'Urbanisme et logement (DUL)) and include a printed form
indicating:
- the name aid address of the applicant (owner or agent),
- the location of the land and its surface area,
- the nature and purpose of the proposed building.
The application must also include:
- A deed certifying the amicable transfer of the land,
- A sketch showing the location and name of roads serving the
- lot;
- A sketch showing the layout of the premises;
- A description and rough cost estimate for the works.
Article V: After the application is received, the authorities shall uerify
the documents and within one month issue or refuse the building permit;
beyond that period and if the application is not expressly rejected, the
permit is deemed to have been granted.
Article VI:  Verification of the elevation of the finished surface of the
building land shall be the responsibility of the Public Property service;
MPWUH shall be responsible for monitoring the civil works.
Article VII:  Violations of this Order shall be punished by a fine of
DF36,UUU to 300,OUO.
Moreover, the Commissioner of the Republic, Chief of the District
of Djibouti, shall order the automatic demolition of buildings constructed
without permits or those violating the approved boundary draving, in which
case the occupants aud owners shall not be entitled to any compensation
whatsoever.
The land teniure status and all unauthorized permanent structures
shown on the approved boundary drawing shall be regularized vithin six
months following the publication of this order.



-69-
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 8
Article VIII: The following categories of agents are specially empowered
to report violations to this Order:
1. The Commïssionier of the Republic, deputies, arrondissement
chiefs, Head of the District's Technical Services Division and
his sworn agents;
2. Members of the criminal investigation 'police force (Police
judiciaire);
3. Other sworn policemen;
4.  Comaissloners, inspectors ai  investigators of the National
Policy,
5. National Security force assigned to the urban corps;
6. MPWUH and its sworn agents;
7. Chief of the Public Property Service and his sworn agents;
8. Chief of the Office of Sanitation and his sworn agents;
9.  Chief of the INPC and his sworn agents.
Article  IX:   This  Order  shall  be  registered,  published  and  enforced
wherever necessary.
Done in Djibouti, October 15, 1983
HASSAN GOULED APTIDON
President



-70-                       ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 8
DJIBOUTI
ODRB" DEVELORNT PROJECT
Provision for Simplified Land Acquisition and Building Peruits la
the Old Vards and Balbala
City of Djibouti
TITLE I - GENERAL
Article I. 1 - Purposes of the Specifications
1.             The purpose of  these specifications  is to set forth the
regulations to gavern private construction in Old Wards Nos. 1 to 7 and
Balbala under the Djibouti Urban Development Project (DUDP).
2.           They further stipulate the procedures by which plots cam  be
acquired by private parties.
Article I. 2 - Delimitation of Old Wards (1 to 7).
3.        The Old Wards are bounded:
- to the north by Avenue de Brazzaville;
- to the east by Boulevard de Gaulle;
- to the south by the 'type E" road;
- to the west by Boulevard Cheick Osman which runs into the Arta
Road.
Together, they cover 97 ha., including roads, major infrastructure and open
areas.
Article Lu 3 - Delicitation of Balbala
4.        The Balbala agglomeration is bounded:
- to the north/northeast by Doral4 Road;
- to the east and south by Arta Road;
- to the west by a straight line running fromL the South Module
water cisterns to the Dorald Road at Gaan-Maan (Centre
National Module).
The area covers a total of 300 ha.
Article I. 4 - Master Dravings
5.        The master drawings attached to these specifications show:
- the layout of roads and rights-of-way;
- plot configuration and the drainage networks;
-  the   final   pur-,ose  of   the   various   areas-housing  or
infrastructure;
- green and recreation areas;
-  the "Pilot OpL-ation" section for the construction of housing
built of local .-terials.



-71-                          ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 8
àrticle I. S -  Studard Hbu8slg &Bd Cbastruction Draviage
6.          Construction in these areas must conform to accepted building
practices mad standards In the Republic of Djibouti.
7.         Those receiving DUDP plots within the project area may apply for
building permits; the simplified procedure for such permits la explained in
the attachuents to these specifications.  The following requirements must,
however, be rigorously observed:
(a) Construction style with surrounding walls and an interior
courtyard;
(b) The requirement that construction not cover n»re than 70Z of
total plot areas.
8.         Those receiving plots outside the project areas shalL follow the
existing procedure for obtain±ng building perîits as set forth in Order
No. 73-1580/SG/CG of October 30, 1973.
TITLE Il - IOADS ANu CIMDN AUAES
Article Il. 1 - Co-on sreas
9.           The Government will be responsible for putting in roade and
developing coann areas (recreation, parking, landscaped and similar).
Article Il. 2 - O.mership and Obligations
10.       Infrastructure li the Old Wards and Balbala will be the property
of  the Goverument.   Its  construction  and maintenance  will remain  the
responsibility of the Government.
11.         Plot owners shall be entitled to use these facilities provided
they do not damage or dirty them.
TITLE III - PROCEDURES FOR ACUING COVERMSP AND CONSTRUCTION
Article III. i - Approval of Plan
12.        With a view to speeding up ownership by the inhabitants of the
areas in question, the procedure of amicable transfer of title has been
selected because of its simplicity.  This i6 effected after the following
entîties  have  approved  all  documents  (drawings,  specifications  and
regulations of the areas or districts involved):
-  Urban Development Consultative Committ"c
- DUDP Monitoring Committee as regards its jurisdiction
- Land Teaure Commission
- Council of Ministers
- National Assembly



-72-                         ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 8
-  lastly,  promulgation  of  the  Law  by  the  President of  the
Republic.
Article I1I. 2 -  Prooedures for Obtannlag Oumership
13.       In addition to the exemption from the Law under the Project, the
transfer of state-owned land is subject to Ruling No. 487, 6L of May 24,
1968, amended by Ruling No. 39/8 L of May 27, 1974.
Article III. 2a - Case of Occupied Plots: Balbala and Old MardB
14.        Candidates for plots must submit to the Public Property Service
undisputed proof of owaership of existing buildings certified by the
District.
Article III. 2b - Case of New Plots: Balbala
15.       Candidates for vacant plots must:
- be Djibouti nationals,
- have monthly incomes below DF100,000
- not own any other dwelling.
Article III. 2c
i6.        In all cases, following approval by the Land Tenure Commission,
candidates shall acquire from the Public Property Service the pertinent
information on spot height (c6te altimétrique) and boundary lines.
Candidates shall pay all fees relating to the Public Property Service and
obtain registration of their plots. The sale becomes effective on the date
of payment.
17.        The Public Property Service shall mark off the plot after having
communicated the slope and height on infill (c6te du remblai) and then
provide monitoring.
Article III - Sale Prico of land/m2



-73-          *               ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 8
Sale of land Old Varda and laibala
Total
Recowery of Infra-  Sale Price
Price of Land    structure Costa      of Land
Vard                Site                         Per x2           Per m2            Per N2
1         Place Harbi and surroundings    DF  2,500             DF   400      DF   2,900
Old Slaughterhouse                    2,500                400           2,900
Avenue Cheick Houmed                  1,500                400           1,900
Remainder of the Ward                 1,200               400            1,600
2         Boulevard De Gaulle                   2,500                400            2,900
Avenue Cheick Houmed                  1,500                400           1,900
Remainder of the Ward                 1,200               400            1,600
3         Boulevard De Gaulle                   2,500              1,700            4,200
Avenue Cheick Houmed                  1,500              1,700           3,200
Avenue 26                             1,500              1,700           3,200
Remainder of the Ward                 1,000              1,700           2,700
4         Avenue Cheick Houmed                  1,500                400            1,900
Rue des Issas                         1,500               400            1,900
Avenue 26                             1,500                400           1,900
Arta Route                            1,500                400           1,900
Remainder of the Ward                 1,000                400           1,400
5         Boulevard De Gaulle                   2,500              1,700            4,200
Avenue 26                             1,500              1,700           3,200
Avenue Nasser                         1,500              1,700           3,200
Remainder of the Ward                 1,000              1,700           2,700
6         Rue des Issas                         1,500              1,700            3,200
Avenue Nasser                         1,500              1,700           3,200
Remainder of the Ward                 1,000              1,700           2,700
7         Avenue Nasser                         1,500                400            1,900
Boulevard Guelleh Batal               1,500               400            1,900
Remainder of the Ward                 1,000               400            1,400
7 bis                                           1,000                400            1,400
Ambouli    Circular route                        1,500                400            1,900
Remainder of the Ward                 1,000               400            1,400
Balbala    Arta Route                            1,000                500            1,500
Doraleh route, including
the crest line of the plateau         1,000               500            1,500
Remainder of the Ward                   300                500             800



-74-                           ANNEX 10
Page 8 of 8
Article III. 3a - DUDP Cost Iecovery
18.        DUDP intends to recover its costs primarily through the sale of
the plots.
19.         Owners of wooden houses shall have a period of three years to
purchase the plots.  Failing submission of the documents within one year
after the promulgation of these specificaCions, all owners of existilng
buildings shall pay an annual property fee set at the flat rate of ten
times the price per m2 of land.
20.          If the land is not paid for in the three years following the
promulgation of these specifications, owners of existing buildings shall
lose all rights regarding both transfer and construction, and shall not be
entitled to any coupensation whatsoever from the Government.  However the
owner of the existing structure may recover, at his own coast, any portion
of this structure on the property after notification to the existing tenant
of at least three mDnths, provided this is done within the same three-year
period allowed to owner to ptrchase the property.
21.       In the latter case, any renters occupying the plot shall have the
right of pre-emption to acquire such plots for their benefit, which must be
done within one year.
Article III. 3b - Transfer
22.       No title deed obtained in accordanoe with the procedure set forth
above may be transferred or assigned by way of gift unless a building has
been constructed.
23.       All of the property transactions cited above shall be subject to
ordinance No. 79-002/PR of January 11, 1979.



- 75 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
DJIBOUTI
DEAN DEVELOWPENT PEDJECT
Rater Rates Study
Marne of Reference
1.            The main objective of this water rates study is to lay the
groundwork for the introduction of new potable water rates, the structure
and level of which are to reflect the real cost of service, while also
taking into account the financial capacity of the various income groups.
The new rates should also encourage long-term conservation of water.
2.         The first phase of the study shall review in detail the current
rate structure and its changes ovnr the last ten years as compared with
changes ln the cost of living.  It shall cover the cost per m3 of water as
well as the charges for lease of meters, maintenance of connections and
meters, cost of private connections and similar services.
3.            The Consultant, while giving the book value of total fixed
assets, shall revalue them as of the date of the study, mentioning all
lnvestments to be made over the next ten years.
4.          The Consultant shall project water consumption by user categorN
and monthly volume: less than 10 m3, from 10 to 20 m3, from 20 to 50 m
and more than 50 m3.
5.             Operating costs shall be projected year by year, based on
expected consumption and planned investments. The share of unbilled water
should steadily decrease from itS current level to 20% by the end of the
10-year period.
6.        The long-term marginal cost per m3 of water is to be compuced on
the  cost of planned expansions  and projected operating  costs.   A  10%
discount rate shall be applied to water costs and volumes.
7.         Using existing studies, the Consultant shall draw up a table of
income groups.
8.            The Consultant shall then propose a rate policy designed to
accomplish tuie following objectives:
(a) the lowest income groups should have access to potable water
at a cost not exceeding 2% of the household budget;
(b) as many households as possible should be able to have
private connections, to be achieved by reducing the charge
for installation to the actual cost and spreading payment
over four years at low interest;



- 76 -
AN<NEX 11
Page 2 of 2
(c)  projected  operating  costs,  debt  service  and  capital
investment should be fully covered.
9.           Kecommendations shall be made on the rate structure and the
levels to apply by consuaption category.
10.        Alternatives are to be proposed under which revenue would cover
only 20Z, 40X, 60% and 80% of capital cost respectively.
11.       Each alternative should be examined for accessibility and for its
foreseeable impact on overall consumption.
12.          An indexing formula should be proposed whereby rates can be
adjusted each year to reflect price changes.
13.        For each alternative, the rate of return on the revalued fixed
assets is to be calculated by dividing net operating revenue, including
provision  for  depreciation  of  fixed  assets  but  before  payoent  of
debt-service obligations, by the average of revalued net fixed assets for
the preceding and current years.
14.         The time allowed for the study is six months, aplit into two
phases.    An  interim  report  is  to  be  submitted  after  three  months.
Following its approval, the final report can be prepared. Both reports are
to be sent in duplicate to the World Bank.
15.       The Water Authority (Service des Eaux) will provide the following
to assist the ronsultant:
(a) a full-time engineer to vork in conjunction with him on the
studies and eventually take on the responsibility for
regular updating of the study data;
(b) a furnished office and secretarial support;
(c) a vehicle;
(d)  access to all available data, existing reports, statistics
and annual accounts.



- 77 -
ANNEX 12
Page- geof 2
URL Dr    PW
Dac,lts lu Project File                                   Dbcumet Nb ber
African Deelopuent Fund: Terms of Referenoe for                            109.272 A
Pre-±nvestment and Implementation, Water Supply Project ln
Five Urban Centers of Djibouti, October 1979.
Bureau International du Travail:  le Secteur Non-Structure A                109.272 B
Djibouti, 1982.
Dembitzer, B., Financial hnalysis Urban Developtent Project,                109.272 C
1983.
Konye, Arpad, Internaltonal Labor Offlce, Report on Missioo                109.272 D
to Paris and Aviipon regarding the Production of Earth
Bricks, June 1982.
boaye, Arpad, Report on Pre-Appraisal Mission, May 1983.                    109.272 E
Nahmias, I., L'Organisation du Projet et le Renforcemnt des                 109.272 F
Inxstitutions, December 1983.
SEIES/Groupe Huit:  Report on First Phase Feasibility Study,               109.272 G
June 1982 (French).
SEDES/Groupe Huit:  Draft Final Report, Feasibility Study,                 109.272 H
January 1983 (French).
SEDES/Groupe Huit:  Final Report, Feasibility Study, 1983                   109.272 I
(French).
SEDES/Groupe Huit:  Executive Summary, Final Report                        109.272 J
Feasibility Study, 1983 (English).
SELES/(roupe Huit:  Technical Plans, Feasibility Study, 1983.               109.272 K
SEiES/Groupe huit:  Proposal for Feasibility Study, September               109.272 L
1981.
SEDES, Esquisse de Schéua Directeur de la Ville de Djibouti,               109.272 M
July 1980.
SE-ES, Esquisse de Schéma Directeur de la Ville de Djibouti,               109.272 N
CODuplment, February 1981.
SEDES, La SolvabilitE des Ménages djiboutiens ou du droit de               109.272 O
s'écablir en ville, November 1981.



- . 8 -
A1EXC 12
Pag z of 2
USAID, Appraisa of Iousing Comnent Société Iambilière de                 109.272 P
Djibouti Djibouti urban Dewlopment Project, by Claude
Bovet and lOiel Chilson, January 1984.
Iorld Iealth Orgnization:  Sectoral Study, Water and                     109.272 Q
Smication, December 1981.



IBRD 17672
DJIBOUTI                                                     V15-EEN AB               PYDM.
RER     YEN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVEOPPEMENTr URBAN/                                                                     f
SUBPROJECT  LOCATIONS                     }                                     ÔJiBOuTu1
EMPLACEMENT ES SOUS-PROJETS
SOMALIA
ETHIOPIA
Gv/f  of                                                                         40'            45     ,
ladj ourcih                                               y      -\ 
SUBPROJECT LOCATIONS
/EMP" ACEMENI DES SOVS-PRAIE7S
\___/_/PRIMARY ROADS
AM4TRES PRINCIPA* ES
RAILROAD
CHEMIN DE AER
/71 BUILT-UR AREAS
ZONES DEVELOPPEES
..-._-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNARIES
;   --   o        \       \                     d~~~~~~~~~~~~~IMITES INYFiNATONA LES
OLD WRS        _      `-0                .5     1      t.S    2
KILOMETERS
B/    B| Axtpo SLIE
*h r||...   rZr. .rh.rid f    n....i \PP
',h_.ÊT,,r .1'',,,.î'-!.1 r R»-r! 
.... 1                             ro. ,|o"1 4 -t_'u     rrDECEMBER 198h3 \



IBRD 17673
À5.
REP                                          
ET HIOPIA     *
40            4S
DJIBOUT I
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PAOJET DE OEVEZOPP.EMENr URBAIN                              ,
OLD WARDS UPGRADING COMPONENT
WATER SUPPLY NETWORK
COMfPOSANTEr DES ANCIENSQUARTIERS
RESEAU D'AI4MENTVAilON EN EAU I
-  PROPOSED NETWORK             EXISTtNG NET_"K
fflEAU PROJETEr            RESEAU EA'/S ANT
*PROPOSED FIRE HYDRANT      EXISTING FIRE MYDRANT
POTEAUX INCENVDIE ARO,lETE  SO/C?IES INCENDIE
-     MAIN ROADS
AA'TEAES PIPINCIPA LES
RAILROAD
CHEMIIN DE fFER
___WARD BOLJNDARlES
LIMITES &ES ANICIENS QUARTIERS
INTERNATIONAL BUDRE
I // \ S"ff oS INFAINZU
' q           o                    Kil OMETERS
//l                                                                          / 



I BRD 17955
.  -                                               ' 4D' s         45   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s   '
YEMEN Z  PD.R.
DJ I BOUT I                          ,                       ,5- '`.  @  ` ARAB    YEMEN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                           `
PROJET DE DéVEOPPEMENT URBAN  '
OLD WARDS-DRAINAGE                                                             /DiIeUTi t   Ade'
ANvC/ENvS  Q7UARTIERS                                                       Ch b'b.
_   ~ ~ ~~~~~~1,10'-
SOMALIA
( o/f oS                      é-                                         ETHIOPIA      -
Tad1ourc7h                                                                  ____________,,______40_
AMBOULI PROTECTION DIKE                                  ---'              SUBPROJECT LOCATIONS
O/GULf OAM2WII                                                             EMICEIN Joes SOUS-AOTSX~2s
WEST CANAL                                                         -       PRIMARY ROAD5
CA NAt 01 e57                                                              ARTERES PRINCAPALRES
MAIN STORMWATER COLLECTORS             -.         f                  -    RAILROAD
COU. -CTEtuRS PRIVC/PAUX:                                                  ChEMIN Df FER
D'EAUX PLUVIAtES                                                   4  ~   UL-J  RA
SEA OUTFALLS                                                        -       OBUILTUP AREAS
-  &W EISSA IRES LV MER                                                 .-ITENTOA  BUDRE
.  -`_ INTERNATIONAL  NDARIES
. %pLD  tARDSI          s         - O    .5            1.5    2
KitOMETERS
SALINE I1MLES
BALBA~L ALA                                                  '
/          -           .-1    P   w"*  n  sr*    ».A   198  \
,  F~..ss *@    *.l "°x          
F.- '.' . ' W IF'' .-,x..t \      ' 
j., aAg...' e' C.    ' .. : 1..T   \
e t--\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' `.ARCH 1984



IBRD 17674
4 \  .   ,    y                                                      DECEMBER 1983
N   S  YEMEN jPD.R                                DJ IBOUT I
-ARA ENYEMEN                    URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RER 0    EN              PROJIET 0)E DEVEiOPPEMNTf URBA/N
S\C_~f Of               BALBALA UPGRADING COMPONENT
/ DJIBQWTI  6l'A#@"                ROADS, PUBLIC LIGHTING, AND  GARBAGE
JDJi U                                      COMPOSANTE BAZBAIA
L         .. SOMALIAVOIR/E, ECiA/RAGE PUBZIC, ET ORDURES MENAGERFS
-1-PROJECT BOUNDARY
*>_ SOM^ALIA                          __1/M/TE DO/NTERVFNAIrON
ETHIOPIA        -.                       ROADS,                           PUBLIC LIGHTING:
.7             VOIRf/F:                         ECA RA GB PU5I IC:
40-            45S      7               PAVED ROAD OFF-SITE              MEDIUM VOLTAGE NETWORK
,   ,  .                VO/ÆVRIE   j/rO  E                IGNE M. 7
PAVED ROAD, ON-SITE         M   TRANSFORMER
0VOIRIE IV SIr£ TE'AlVSFORMATEVR
Gulf of               ROADS TO BE UPGRADED              LOW VOLTAGE NETWORK
PISfE AMBUlOREF                  RF5FAU ECLAIRAGE PUBtIC
Aden-    BRIDGE
PONT SUBMER.5IBLE               GOARDBVARGfNGE  AiS
2) )9               o oo~00   FO RD                        ORDURfES ME NA GfERES:
C Djibau                  PADIER SUBMERS/SIBFEORD          SOLID WASTE CONTAINERS
ibcuti                                    ~~~~~~~~~~BAC A ORDUIRES
-TjF! .BUILT-UP AREAS
i - ZONES DEVEZOPPEES
INTERNATIONAL O p1gNDARIXS
LM 1ITrE5 IVTERNATIrNAIAE
Are.a                                                   3)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
».<~~~~~~~'.,~~~ ~  2  ,:                 E       i
A wpai't                                                         -z 
t'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,,    ,                                _ 0,-   ,,.
X   \         v                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~METERS
'7y>é r   r,! sr or rr t    wc,l s or r   o  of
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h  \ a' ce TheL Wd  t bir&to Me éW aonors! C-POr  &Yce Nd r
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                     I~~~~~~~~. -O     sow    0   a     f~b     ceyO     cw - 09z:     mlf



IBRD 17675
| B  | BI I | I   I, |  I,i |i| Bi i 3t i   |  B, |. BI                      , | B  |, |                      - |        ,- |D-
AA1   A      AIA , A , A ,A| A,A,  A, *  A,A| A,         c             C        D*
…-----  c                                                   C   O                                     v~~~~~~~~IASOMALIA
FTTTT| _l|AX                  I              _;% |  _8; | A;s | A,;l | Aa;, | A,|A |   C  C _D        ETHIOPIA
A1A, @,~   A,    AI,   A,    AI   AA   A,               C      t                O         L A  AI AI  c 
III                                                                  Djibout3~~~~~~~~ D
2~~                                                               ~     ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  D  
Ai      AI   t  I A,  A1A,  Al jA   As AI1 1   Al | A Al  A                      Dl
Al Al           Al Al  AI    Al  Al A|  D|DDD|1 Al Al    C           |             DD|D  /
|.~ ~~4,11A                                17 m IA
~~~1~~~~ ~ ~ r --  c  D
BlB        BB 2B2 si   52 82 82                82Bi5,IB    B   ,   82  c     o
C 2   C2C,c    C2 C2   C2jC2   C2 C2   C2 C2   C2 Ci   C2              C         O
Cc    ~~~CC    c   C.c   cc    c. c         c c   c   c   c   c   c
D                              -
7DO0 D D-O' D O 'D DO0D DO  DO  D DD
-o b4 A,a                                                                                 ro Oji;outi-.
DJIBOUTI
SALINES  WEST   COMPONENT                                  LoT TYPE     DIMENSIONS   UNDEVELOPED DEVELOPED   TOTAL
SI TE  DEVELOPM ENT                                 LOT TYE                                  LTUENSION5   CEV LOE   PEVES
COMPOSANTE  SAttNfS  OIUEST                                  MA CE LLfc                  AIL/ES    coh67puir5E
Df rA411 I:ES PA4MOEUES
E$ C Eli    ô6 x 12 r 72 m2              6 
UNDEVELOPED LOT                            ô,          x 12- 96m2                  14       14
PARCElLE NUE                                                       ___ _
CJ   FANfC4DEVELOPED LOT                       _         _2    8 x 12 0 96m2                14       14
P'fCslE CONSJIRwTEd
NT-rN-r  li EMBANIKMENT                               2        8 x 15 :120.2 _l _ 
t  C     BS"15 12O.f2      36                   36
0irniSD        8 x 20: t6Or.    34                    34
ME TE RS                                 TOTAL                        7D0        106      176
ME T ERS                                                                     11
Th W"*os  ro.r.d bv 1Th. UbIdB&3 511Eeor O.lulp leN i,D cerm roea  *ALL UNITS HAVE 1 WASHROOM AND 1 KICTCI4EN,
rn g ésAnr"re~ o, rrirr.d-f or pi,.  ntrrn *~o,r,iw.,  r SUBSCR IPT DE NOTES NUMBER OF ADDITIONAL ROOMS.
o. *oS  vl oai rne ~r a,* Ad ruge b,MO,IIgonW Fmrnce ceomahmA ary rr 
DECEMBER 1963



IBRD 17676
DECEMBER 1953
_  I                                              .hL-iiiI.III.IIt,,1.I.I,I,,e,I.I.1, 1.I.III.II .1.1 n   1 .1 III,n   1 I . I.I *
.iZIIZEEI .o - [ZJZJZ(IL] 0                                                       . I e. ,
.. .. .. ~~~_ _    _ _                             _               _.'. . .
EJEEEEF__  __     _ _ _                                                 -.;i; !  `4
_ I _ _FÉ ____ _____I     __v      Ax.
- i      -             -.  ' -   ''-20'        ''-   -'*         'oJ«Z'  
4;                                  I~~~~~~~~~;
X~~~  IL '`:i 'T`d'l'+rrTp-:m::L  S?.                             i' I.` 1'- vH    1 
l175 
DJIBOUTI                                                                 Y
YEMEN  -P. D. R
SALINES WEST COMPONENT                                           L             RB (FDYEMENR
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION                                                       \RE
COMPOSANTIE SAZINES OUEST                                                                J  1r 
ALIMENTATION EN FAU ET ASSAIN/$$EMENT bMEuVr                                            /i  1
L.
WATER SUPPtY                    SEWERAGE
Ai UMEN rA7/N EAU               ASN55NSSEMENr                                                10
OFF-SITE                 *--  OFF-SITE                           ;                 ,SOMAL A
Hol5 sIrT                       SOIT S/r*
-   ON-SITE                            ON- SITE                              ETHIOPIA
M SI Eri                       IN Sire                                40             45-     71
EXISTING                                                                                    J
'FrI5TA NY                      DEVELOPED LOTS
VALVES                         PAlcEULfS COSTRUrITES             |  
VANN'ES            z            UNDEVELOPED LOIS                 I                     Aden
r  jrlm EMBANKMENT
R EAIBZAI1 a4z 1ng               l l           )(ADiibout.
1  0         25            50 METERS
I                 I                                I               +II               r{{  #  
|   rsMo fins be a red  Tl The Worrd 88anA sasbF e,cb9r torm r e conn!nence ot
F.rn,c  Cro, Voeaàon Tho dfoemn,na,ihans usPd.' ,d .,>  bourndi,s shOwn o!n tfins Ia  dO nolt
|   tr,  ff i. pA-o or Mbe Wo,kW llPA P nd *he Indt,.nirraIn F,n,nce rCopoatony &df l,dn/
Iaon  S,. lega, sIabjs d .ani IdV or or o n  p,1,1o,n CCe.VyOnce ol Suro  oo ,nccne  o  _ _uc4 b__u____



IBRD 17677
DECEMBER 1903
I JE 111F111lF IIGI<J; I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ J1 
,1  _.  | t 111  1 1 1~~D 1 BOU 1                                         4. S  y 
. s-               .___. 
ROD    AN            PULI  LIGHTING  11      1t- 
i fr:   -    .                                                           - . 
-   I     I1     I   I       L   I AIR   1 1   1         11_
14  1f   ST                   PI175m               
ONSAITE,SEC   ESTAROMPOLENT|L5 <lAA   EE
IISROAD -cvAND?  PUBLIC     LIGTN                          ETHioPiA P.
CON-   OS1-E     S                                    -_7_
MOIR/E~~~~~~~lod fr   CIARA  TeUB/CI.VzoE                           lw
DEEOPEDLOS         UDVLPEDLOTS  LIGHTING i.BNMN (1.É/
PA                              -1E7NDAY5     . POLE  D lm
-~~~lJ ,EC~s,# kO-Eb                                                         r0 Oj H10 I  --7 
DJIBOUTI ftarlMÉf  ME_ ER
-a IDEVELOPEDSLINS    WES CNDEVLOMPED LONt                        i d BaD .R. i  E N T  |uo
I,~~ I PRC    OAD   ANI PUBIèCFu    LIGHT and  1NG bvu,dfi        I ffl rs                  1
'    -   COMPOSANTEf SALINES OUEST
~~'OIRIE~~ ~ ~ EC -AR' GE ;la                                      I
OFF-SIT0         2           50  WIETES of 7t a        1- ',^,,  /0 ' o
on Ith, vr,nlW stL1x     tu% ar of  . mVy fendror WM0s"ern«i or Cr facrlAr of sur.h brnesdz  . | t   1tDr
HORS~1 SIT   IOv  MWlX                                 -~OA



IBRD 1767P
f j                         DECEMFER 1983
T          - .I''i. lII lil .1*u, .I.I.1.1|1s1 .11,1.1,1è.1.,, * it *    * i                      u   
175~~~~~~~~~~~.-
-E Si~~RAINAGE                                                                             RE
-                                                                                - __   __r_           ____u;  
SURFI _CE_                                                                       _    _I DE D LOTS
l         _.  _    _  __-               .______ _…  _.  _-              _   E1     ______'.,'.` ________'ES
-    - -4--             -___ ______r__;_
I3  INr                              lm EMAKMN EIIOI I             I I 17"';';
X~~~Ao                                     f£M   I DE l",   II111 
k                                                175- n1'
.~- rO Ae                                                   rO Dj,bovr, _
a| r~ in i r~ wd i-k - he      DJ I  BOU T I                                                .        |       .    y
|. t      to  -SALINES WEST  COMAPONENT o rue                                                                ME r(PDR.
|                          ~~~~~~DRAINAGE                                            iI             REP ;t
|             ~~COMPOSANTE SAU/NES OUEST                                                -l l                      G   '
I~~~~~~~Of DINA GE                                                                                 /  DiOTI  Aidd 
I            __. .......SURFACE DRAIN          D E'4E LOPED LOS|                                        L/t        r. -
|                 É~~~~~CO?JZEEFNTSUPERFICIEL       dA/CEL E CoNsRtJlrEs                |o 10                           o0
I~~~ SUBSURFACE DRAIN                        r i| UNDEVELOP,-D LO)TS                      |                   SOMALIA
Pfi   CANWEfAUJ|                       PXA*QCfEU  NUEf5S
INE                         rrr   # mEfUBANKMENTl    ETHIOPIA 
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ G4:/e' 
|                   0       ~      ~~       ~      ~~ 25  50 METEAS             w                  s    ^     z 
| TPbs man 7I rs   gria.n,rede > TSi. vlb,nr aab, S sraff Caci s,..* b la Iecvera.c ol      I                 
P,n|   Co.oeata,.ris. enoaaloreu ied md Ph.. ba.,avme.s enro 5PA  I? Iin Ai Ic                                  \    `I
on5 Iça S!ranu; or 0<rvri. rneavnorany i.nifsusdn,anio orae.solann anilSsnci ticNes  /                                    N   - 
| 'v. on if.  a,, od 7h. Worrlr B...,i.ano lue Ine,rl,naenl f,inanre Co.voahosn. anr' ji~niluJn |    



