Document of                     >        g 
The World Bank                         >;Si'P 
FOR OFFCICAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3789-DJI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEV ELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT FOR SDR 4.9 MILLION
(US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
R:EPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
FOR AN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 22, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  FD
US$1.00               -        FD 177.7
FD 1,000              =        US$5.6
FD 1,000,000          =        US$5,627
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cm - centimeter             =       0.39 inches
1 m  - meter                  =       3.28 feet
I m3 - cubic meter                    264 US gallons
1 km - kilometer              =       0.62 miles
1 km2- square kilometer       =       0.39 square miles
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAD   - Banque Africaine de Developpement (African Development Bank)
CCCE  - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CDD   - Caisse de Developpement de Djibouti (Djibouti Development Bank)
CFPA - Centre de Formation Professionnelle Administrative
DD    - District of Djibouti
DEB   - Djibouti Electricity Board
DUDP - Djibouti Urban Development Project
DUL   - Direction de l'Urbanisme et du Logement (Urban Planning and
Housing Department at MPWUH)
LO    - Land Office
MPWUH - Ministry of Public Works, Urbarn Planning and Housing
PMU   - Project Management Unit
SID   - Socift4 Immobiliere de Djibouti (Djibouti Housing Agency)
WDD   - Water Department of Djibouti
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DJIBOUTI
Urban Development Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Djibouti
Beneficiaries:     Ministry of Public Works, Urban Planning and Housing,
Ministry of Interior, Djibouti Development Bank (CDD),
and Djibouti Housing Agency (SID).
Amount:             SDR 4.9 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms
Relending Terms:   Funds for on-site infrastructure at Salines Ouest would
be onlent to SID at 8 percent per annum for a period of
five years with three years grace; the funds for
housing credit would be onlent to CDD at 6 percent per
annum for a period of 12 years with one year grace. CDD
would make loans for housing improvement and new
construction to final beneficiaries at 8 percent per
annum for 12 years with one year grace.
Cofinancing:        USAID with a grant of US$5.5 million.
CCCE with a loan of US$1.0 million.
Project
Description:
Objectives:       The objectives of the project are (i) to improve the
living conditions of the urban poor in the city of
Djibouti (especially the residents of Balbala and the
Old Wards); and (ii) to strengthen the absorptive
capacity of the key agencies involved in the urban
sector by providing them with staff training, equipment,
and a clearer and more appropriate framework for the
management of urban investments, and introducing more
rigor in their cost recovery practices.
Components         (a)  Old Wards.  Upgrading and drainage works in the Old
Wards to alleviate stormwater damage and provide
protection from flooding of all low lying areas. Roads,
water distribution, fire hydrants and refuse collection
would also be included.
(b) Elalbala. Upgrading of a squatter settlement; this
would include provision of roads, public lighting,
refuse collection and the construction of a market.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(c)  Salines Ouest.  A site and service development as
a joint venture with the Socigtg Immobiliere de
Djibouti (SID) on land owned by them. SID's
contribution would include the land and core
housing units; the project would finance the cost
of the off-site and on-site infrastructure.
(d) Institutional Support. Technical support
including staffing, training and equipment to the
Land Office, the District of Djibouti, SID, Caisse
de Dgveloppement de Djibouti (CDD), and a small
Project Management Unit (PMU).
(e) Housing Credit. Housing credit to improve
existing homes and the construction of new housing
units in the target areas.
Benefits:  The project objectives would be achieved through the
improved efficiency of urban institutions, the
servicing of urban land and the provision of housing
credit. The project would improve the living
conditions in the Old Wards (161 ha., 10,390
households) and Balbala (105 ha., 2,500 plots) and
would provide 176 serviced plots at Salines Ouest.
Risks:  The main risks faced by the project are those derived
from weaknesses in the execution capacity of the
implementation agencies which may lead to delays in
project implementation, and cost recovery. Specific
measures, including a high degree of institutional
support which is considered of high priority in
Djibouti, have been included as part of the project to
limit these risks.
Project Costs:
…--    US$ Million------
Local   Foreign    Total
(a)  Upgrading of Old Wards                      1.22      1.50       2.72
(b)  Upgrading of Balbala                        0.55      0.78       1.33
(c)  Salines Ouest Site & Service                0.59      0.85       1.44
(d)  Institutional Support                       1.08      2.72       3.80
(e)  Housing Credit                              0.79      0.96       1.75
(f)  Detailed Design & Supervision               0.19      0.33       0.52
(g)  Project Preparation Facility                 --       0.50       0.50
Total Base Cost                                        4.42      7.64     12.06
Physical Contingencies                                 0.48      0.66       1.14
Price Contingencies                                    0.78      1.25       2.03
Total Project Costa/                        5.68      9.55      15.23
a/ Net of taxes and duties.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
------US$ Million-…----
Source                                                Local   Foreign    Total
IDA Credit                                                      5.0        5.0
Government of Djibouti                                 2.7                 2.7
SID                                                    1.0                 1.0
USAID                                                  -         5.5        5.5
CCCE                                                   -         1.0        1.0
3.7     11.5       15.2
Estimated Credit Disbursements:
IDA              FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89   FY90    FY91
Annual           1.00    0.65    0.85    0.90    0.90   0.65    0.05
Cumulative       1.00    1.65    2.50    3.40    4.30   4.95    5.00
Economic Rate of Return:  26 percent for quantifiable project components
representing 69 percent of total project costs.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5005-DJI
Map: IBRD No. 17672






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
FOR AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Djibouti for SDR 4.9 million
(US$5.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an urban
development project. The United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) has agreed to cofinance this project with a grant of
US$5.5 million, and Caisse Centrale de Coopgration Economique (CCCE) has
agreed to provide a loan equivalent to US$1.0 million.
PART I - THE ECONCMY
2.        A report entitled "Djibouti:  Economic Memorandum"
(Report No. 3016-DJI) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 3, 1980. A more recent economic report, entitled "Djibouti:
Economic Situation and Prospects", was discussed with the Djiboutian
authorities in February 1984 and will be distributed to the Executive
Directors.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The Republic of Djibouti is a small arid country located at the
mouth of the Red Sea. Its land area of 23,000 square kilometers is
bordered on the north, west and southwest by Ethiopia and on the southeast
by Somalia. Although the results of a population census taken in January
1983 are not yet available, the 1982 population was estimated by the
Government at about 330,000. In addition, there is a refugee population
estimated at about 42,000. Djibouti became an independent nation in 1977
and joined the World Bank in 1980.
4.        The country is characterized by a rugged topography, with
elevations ranging from 150m below sea level to 2000m above. Its climate
is very dry and hot, and in the absence of any perennial rivers, the lack
of water is a major physical constraint. An estimated one million head of
livestock are herded by the nomad population, who comprise roughly
20 percent of the total population. Because of the scarcity of water and
harsh climate, only about 250 hectares are cultivated, although about
6,000 hectares are deemed to be potentially cultivable. The country's
fishing potential is just beginning to be exploited. There are few proven
natural resources except fcr salt, limestone, gypsum, other raw materials
used in the production of cement, and some geothermal potential. The
manufacturing sector is limited to a number of small-scale establishments
producing for the domestic market.



- 2 -
5.        In spite of its unfavorable climate and limited resources,
Djibouti has nevertheless been able to benefit from its strategic location
and its historical and regional ties to build upon the service-oriented
economy inherited upon independence. Thus, while both the primary and
secondary sectors are very underdeveloped, accounting for only 6 percent
and 15 percent of GDP respectively, there is a relatively dominant and
active tertiary sector associated with the port of Djibouti, the railway to
Ethiopia, the international airport, a private banking system which handles
some offshore business, and the presence of a relatively large number of
French military and civilian personnel. The economy is a highly open one,
notable for its complete lack of trade barriers and exchange restrictions,
and there is a free trade zone at the port. To finance both current and
capital expenditures, the Government has depended heavily on foreign grants
and loans, which have made it possible to sustain large trade deficits.
6.        In a number of respects, Djibouti's structural characteristics
are similar to those of other least-developed countries, while in other
respects they are exceptional. Among the exceptional characteristics are
the extent to which the economy is service-oriented (as noted above),
urban, open and aid-dependent. At the same time, the country's low level
of development is reflected not only in the level of per capita income of
its indigenous population, but also in terms of various social indicators.
7.        Djibouti's per capita income was estimated in 1982 at about
US$880. This average has to be interpreted, however, in the context of a
relatively large foreign population and a high degree of income
dispersion. The 16,000 registered wage earners received average incomes of
US$3,500 whereas the average income of the 100,000 rural and nomadic
population was well below US$300. The per capita adjusted income of the
indigenous population as a whole was estimated at US$480, thereby
qualifying Djibouti for inclusion in the United Nations list of least-
developed countries.
8.        Approximately two-thirds of Djibouti's population live in the
capital city. As a consequence of the inflow of refugees, the total
population has been growing at a rate of about 5.4 percent per annum-
substantially above the national rate of population increase, estimated at
3 percent. There is no official population policy regarding either
immigration/emigration or family planning. Djibouti spends close to
6 percent of its GDP on health services, but these are concentrated on
curative rather than preventive public health measures; life expectancy is
estimated at 45 years and infant mortality at 30 per thousand births.
9.        Djibouti's heavy reliance on expatriate administrators and
technicians is a reflection of the country's underdeveloped human resource
base. The literacy rate is only 9 percent, and the primary, secondary and
high-level enrollment ratios are estimated at 40 percent, 10 percent and
0.6 percent, respectively.
10.       The economy suffered a decline in the years immediately after
independence in June 1977, reinforced by the outbreak of hostilities
between neighboring Ethiopia and Somalia. In 1979 Djibouti started to
recover as the result of increased investment, especially in the
construction sector and commercial sectors. Coupled with increased capital
expenditures by the public sector, these developments contributed toward an



- 3 -
estimated average growth rate of real gross domestic product (GDP) of
3.4 percent per annum in 1979--81. However, since 1982 growth has been
much lower. Real per capita GDP has been on a downward trend since
independdence, partly as the result of immigration from neighboring
countries. This movement, together with the steady entry into the labor
market of school leavers, has tended to intensify the problem of
unemployment in recent years.
11.       Djibouti's fiscal performance following independence was
reasonably satisfactory up to 1981. Surpluses, averaging 4.1 percent of
GDP per annum during 1979-81, were invested abroad, which resulted in the
accrual of relatively substantial investment income. However, in 1982
financial imbalances began to emerge in the operations of the public
sector, reflecting partly the slowdown of economic growth but also a
reduction in the rate of collection of direct taxes and broad exemptions
granted under the investment code. At the same time, expenditures rose
from 46 percent of GDP in 1981 to 56 percent of GDP in 1982. This
reflected mainly an increase in investment expenditures, but also the
inclusion for the first time of the expenditures for the national army in
the budget. While foreign grants earmarked to cover defense expenditures
were reduced, there was also a noticeable rise in subsidies to public and
semipublic enterprises. As a result of these developments, the
Government's transactions recorded a deficit equivalent to 8.4 percent of
GDP. The deterioration in the Central Government's operations was
compounded by a pronounced drop in foreign grants from DF 11.2 billion
in 1981 to DF 7.9 billion in 1982. The estimated deficit for 1983 of
DF 5.0 million (7.6 percent of GDP) represents only a marginal improvement
over the performance in 1982, despite a substantial reduction in
expenditures by 12 percent, as foreign grants continued to decline to about
DF 4.8 billion. In order to finance the overall deficits, deposits with
domestic and foreign banks were drawn down and loans negotiated.
12.       Since independence, the Government has fostered the creation of
public and semipublic enterprises to provide social and economic services
in various fields, particularly where private sector participation was
nonexistent or deemed inadequate. The combined financial accounts of these
enterprises showed modest operating surpluses up to 1980, but they have
incurred losses since then. These losses were partly the result of a
deliberate government policy of not permitting price adjustments to reflect
fully the increases in costs of specific goods and services, e.g., wheat
flour and port services.
13.       Up to 1981 Djibouti's balance of payments was characterized by
large balance of trade deficits that were more than offset by the sum of
net receipts on services and official unrequited transfers. As a result
overall surpluses were realized, and official net foreign exchange reserves
reached a peak in early 1982 equivalent to about SDR 84.5 million,
corresponding to some six months of imports. In 1982, exports (most of
which are re-exports to foreigners stationed in Djibouti) fell by
8.5 percent, mainly as a consequence of the reduction in purchasing power
of these foreigners. Meanwhile, total imports remain essentially
unchanged, so imports not destined for re-export increased sharply from
about 24.5 percent to 30.5 percent of GDP. This increase reflected partly
the rise in investment-related imports of capital goods, as well as the
strong effective appreciation of the Djibouti franc. At the same time, net



-4-
receipts from services and official transfers declined sharply, and the
current account turned from a surplus amounting to 4.1 percent of GDP in
1981 to a deficit of 12.4 percent of GDP in 1982. The deficit was financed
by drawing on foreign loans and an inflow of private capital, and the
overall balance of payments remained in surplus. However, in 1983 the
continued financial imbalances in the public sector led to an overall
balance of payments deficit of SDR 17.2 million, as drawings on foreign
loans slowed and the flow of private capital was reversed.
14.       Monetary developments during the period 1979-81 mainly reflected
favorable developments in the balance of payments and in the substantial
external budgetary support. With net foreign assets of both the Treasury
and the commercial banks increasing, credit to the private sector grew at
13.0 percent. In 1982 this pattern was broken as Government deposits with
the commercial banks declined and net foreign assets fell. Money growth
accelerated to 23 percent as growth in credit to the private sector
continued at a rate of about 40 percent despite the slowdown in economic
activity. The rate of inflation, measured by changes in consumer prices
for expatriates and dominated by the development of import prices and
exchange rate movements, declined from 5.6 percent in 1981 to -2.4 percent
in 1982 but rose again in 1983 to at least 1.0 percent.
15.       The public and publicly guaranteed external debt of Djibouti is
still small and consists mostly of concessionary loans; at the end of 1982
outstanding disbursed debt amounted to SDR 36.3 million or 11.3 percent of
GDP, with a debt service equivalent to 2.4 percent of exports of goods,
services, and private transfers. However, the debt service ratio is likely
to at least double by 1987, as the grace periods of recently contracted
loans begin to expire.
Planning and Aid Coordination
16.       The main concern of the authorities is to achieve a satisfactory
and sustainable rate of growth. Given the very limited natural and human
resources of the country and its unique location, recourse to an open
economy, driven by an active private service sector, is a logical choice.
However, the services sector, which is very sensitive to external shocks,
has so far not been able to generate a sustainable rate of growth or to
generate enough foreign exchange to meet growing import expenditures.
Therefore, a redirection of effort:s is made towards a broadening of the
economic base (small scale industry, fishing, transport, livestock and even
agriculture), while trying to improve the performance of the service
sector.
17.       Although Djibouti has only a nominal planning institution (the
General Directorate of Planning, attached to the Presidency) an informal
system, based on ad-hoc commissions, was quite effective in organizing,
with the help of UNDP and the Bank, a Donors' Conference which took place
in November 1983. The Conference was aimed at broadening international
support to the country and at reversing the trend of declining
concessionary assistance. A five year investment program was proposed to
the Conference. The main objective of the program is to correct the
structural weaknesses of the economy through efforts at diversification,
development of human resources, and the continuing build up of essential



infrastructure. The size of the proposed program was US$570 million of
which US$240 million had already been secured and US$20 million was to be
financed from domestic resources. Out of the remaining US$310 million,
assurances of US$230 million were apparently secured at the Conference,
although pledges for some sectors were in excess of need. In addition,
there were a number of pledges for increased technical assistance, which
the Government considers critical, given its past absorptive capacity
problems. The Government has also created a new "Comit' de Surveillance",
which will be in charge of managing external investment financing.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN DJIBOUTI
18.       Djibouti joined the Bank and the Association on October 2, 1980.
The Bank Group assistance strategy is aimed at helping to strengthen the
country's economic management and development institutions, meet the basic
needs of some of the poorest parts of the population, develop natural
resources such as geothermal energy and improve human resources training.
19.       The proposed Urban Development project would be the fourth Bank
Group operation in the country, after the US$3.0 million credit for a
Technical Assistance project, approved in 1982, the US$6.4 million credit
for a Highway Maintenance project approved in 1983 and a US$6.0 million
credit for a geothermal exploration project approved in May 1984. The
Highway Maintenance project is now effective and a Bank mission visited
Djibouti in December 1983 to assist with its start-up.
20.       The Technical Assistance project, cofinanced with a parallel
contribution of US$1.46 million from UNDP, is designed to improve the
Government's capabilities to formulate an appropriate development strategy,
to coordinate development effcrts and to engage in planning, project
preparation and monitoring. The project provides two long-term advisors to
the Planning Directorate and one to the Statistics Directorate. In
addition to training, equipment and vehicles, it also finances a Project
Preparation and Sector Studies Fund to conduct background and feasibility
studies necessary to design and implement a development strategy. The
planning component of the project has encountered severe difficulties;
however a major reorganization of the Planning Directorate is now under
way.
21.       The Geothermal Exploration Project is cofinanced with the Italian
government, the OPEC Fund, the African Development Bank and the UNDP. The
objective of the project is to prove the availability of commercial
geothermal reserves in the Hanle/Gaggade area on the basis of extensive
geoscientific work carried oult in several areas of Djibouti. The Project
would consist primarily of the drilling of up to four deep exploratory
wells (about 2,000 m each ) and the carrying out of complementary surface
exploration in the Gaggade sub-area; it would also include technical
assistance and training for ISERST, the local implementing agency, as well
as power studies to be carried out by EDD, the local power utility. If and
when developed, the expected reserves would substantially reduce the
country's current total reliance on imported fuel to satisfy its energy
needs.



-6-
22.       Government has also asked for Bank assistance in the education
sector. An Education Sector Memorandum has been prepared. Based on its
findings and on a UNESCO preparation mission, a proposed Education project
has been appraised in March 1984. The project will address mainly the
quality improvement and expansion of primary education.
23.       The Bank participated in the Donors Conference of November 1983
where the Government presented its investment program for the period
1984-88 (see para 17). A technical secretariat to the "Comite de
Surveillance" of the Donors Conference will be established with the task of
monitoring the overall evolution of the Djiboutian economy, and of
preparing and monitoring the projects for which financing has been
obtained. To strengthen this secretariat, the Bank has proposed to assign
to it the project economist and the macroeconomist of the Technical
Assistance Project. Assistance of outside consultants financed by the
Studies Fund will also be provided.
PART III. THE URBAN SECTOR
Urban Conditions
24.       Over sixty percent of the population of the Republic of Djibouti,
estimated at 330,000 inhabitants in 1982, live in the capital, Djibouti.
Djibouti essentially consists of three economic sub-units; the city of
Djibouti with the port/railway terminal, Government services and practially
all of the country commercial activity; the French military base, the
country's main source of economic activity; and the relatively remote, poor
and sparsely populated hinterland. Over the past several years the city of
Djibouti has grown at an average rate of 5.4 percent, to a present
population of 195,000. Although growth rate is expected to decline as
compared to the two decades, growth will add 125,000 people by 1992 to a
city whose quality of life is already poor for the majority of its people.
25.       For most of this century, settlement in Djibouti city was
confined to a narrow peninsula, with the Wadi Ambouli serving as a natural
barrier to expansion. Recent population pressures have changed this
pattern. Expatriates and a small number of high-income Djiboutians remain
in low-density areas north of the commercial center and in military
compounds around the city. By contrast, the poorer "Old Wards" of the
inner city have become more densely settled, and now contain 65 percent of
the city's population. About half the population of the Old Wards are
tenants. Beyond the Wadi Ambouli, 23,000 people (12 percent of the city's
population) live in the squatter settlement of Balbala, an area with poor
access to the rest of the city and virtually no services. Average monthly
family income is US$550 for the Old Wards and US$170 for Balbala. This
income, while rather high in absolute terms, is offset by the extremely
high cost of living, such that a monthly income of US$175 puts an average
family on the verge of starvation. Malnutrition is therefore severe in the
overcrowded, poor parts of the city. Unlike most other African countries,
the "informal" sector in Djibouti is not a major employment source; it
makes up at present only about 30 percent of total employed.



- 7 -
26.       Housing conditions in the Old Wards and Balbala are generally
poor. Paradoxically in this almost treeless country, over 17,000 dwellings
are made of wood, most of which is imported from Ethiopia. Few houses are
of permanent construction. A flew units are being upgraded, although at
present this is an expensive and time-consuming process, requiring lengthy
administrative approval because of the inappropriately high building
standards of the Ministry of Public Works. Houses in Balbala are poorly
built, of whatever materials are available, including cardboard and scrap
plastic sheets. The construction sector suffers from a scarcity of trained
local labor, unreliable materials supply, and the volatile and irregular
nature of demand. In addition to these factors, self-help builders also
have to contend with the present cumbersome, 16-step process of obtaining a
plot authorization and building permit. The lack of long term financing
has meant that up to now, the housing market has operated almost
exclusively on a cash basis. Apart from sand, agglomerate and lime, all
building materials are imported.
27.       The higher income areas and the commercial center are well served
with surfaced roads, water, sewerage, and electricity. These areas are
also relatively well drained. Although adequately served both by major
access roads and secondary streets, the Old Wards suffer from poor quality
interior roads and drains. Secondary streets are unsurfaced and often too
narrow for anything but pedestrian access. Some areas lie below sea level
and are subject to flooding during even light rains; severe floods occur
every few years. The Old Wards have street lighting and a few public
standpipes (27 in the whole city, including 4 for the 23,000 people in
Balbala), as well as some private water and electricity connections.
Electricity tariffs are acceptable. Water tariffs are inappropriate
because they allow an exceedingly large minimum consumption and costly
water connections rates. A water tariff study is part of the institutional
support component of the proposed project and will be carried out in 1985.
Water quality is satisfactory. Water connections which exist often serve
many neighboring houses; the hciuseholder with a connection often charges
his neighbors high prices for this service. There are some individual
connections to the water-borne sewerage system but most housing in the Old
Wards is served by septic tanks and pit latrines.
Institutional Framework
28.       Institutional Setting.  As a city-state, it is not surprising
that the urbanized area comprising the city of Djibouti is regarded as a
national rather than as a municipal asset. In such an environment the
distinction between national and municipal responsibilities is thus hard to
define; at present, there are no elected or appointed local government
officials, although recently introduced legislation provides for
the appointment of municipal advisory councils. Responsibility for
planning, execution, and financing of urban infrastructure and other
facilities rests with national agencies, primarily with the Ministry of
Public Works.
29.       Ministry of Public Works, Urban Planning and Housing (MPWUH).
Regional and urban physical planning, execution and maintenance of roads
and drainage, construction and maintenance of government buildings and
housing, and building code enforcement are among the wide range of



-8-
responsibilities of this ministry. The proven technical capability of this
ministry has led the Government and international aid agencies to further
increase its responsibilities, particularly as regards construction and
maintenance of urban infrastructure. A Presidential Decree issued in June
1982 transferred responsibility for maintenance of Djibouti city streets
from the District to the Public Works Ministry; a subsequent decree, dated
September 20, 1982, enlarged this mandate to include maintenance of
drainage canals, sidewalks, ancd public squares.
30.       A strong technical bias has led the MPWUH to insist on
unrealistically high standards for planning and construction. The French
building code, without any modification or adaptation, is still in force in
Djibouti. Award of full title can only be granted if a permanent house is
built on a lot and on-site services conform to the planning regulations.
As procedures for granting permanent title to land and issuing building
permits are overly long, complex, and political, the bulk of house
construction since Independence has taken place outside Public Works
control. A review of the building code and permit procedure was undertaken
during preparation of the proposed project. This review has produced
recommendations aimed at simplifying the existing procedures for building
permits and allowing lower building standards, which would be incorporated
in the project.
31.       District of Djibouti (DD).  The country is divided into five
administrative districts; one of which, the District of Djibouti, (further
divided into three sub-districts or arrondissements) covers the city
areas. Rather than a true Mayor, the head of the District administration
represents the national authorilties in the city, as his title (Commissaire
de la Republique) implies. The District of Djibouti which is supervised by
the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for issuing licenses and
permits and provides police and emergency services (floods, fires, etc.).
Two of its most important functions are garbage collection and street
cleaning, which are handled by its Technical Services Department. The
Government collects taxes for this which go directly to the national
Treasury. The District has no financial autonomy, all of its receipts
being central Government transfers. The Technical Services Department of
the DD employs a total of 389 staff (of which two are expatriate
supervisors financed by FAC); 136 of these are specifically employed in
refuse collection and street cleaning.
32.       Land Office (LO).  The Land Office which is responsible to the
Ministry of Finance, processes all requests for plots, collects registry
fees and property taxes, and manages public land reserves. This agency is
divided into three sections: the Land Office Section which manages all
public land, the Cadastre which handles all topographic work, and the Land
Registry which registers all titles. The Land Office Section is divided
into three divisions: the Public Property Division which manages all
public land, the Survey Division which handles all topographic work, and
the Records and Titles Division which registers all titles. The Public
Property Division processes approximately 200 provisional or final property
concessions per year. Drafting of decrees presently is needed for
concessions ranging from a single plot to a major site.  The Survey
Division is currently able to handle one application per day or roughly
300 per year. The Survey Division needs therefore to be strengthened if
its handling capacity is to be increased. The Land Records and Titles
Division is able to meet current demand comfortably; however, it requires
better registration and filing systems.



- 9 -
33.        The Socigtg Immobiliere de Djibouti (SID) (Housing Agency) is the
parastatal agency responsible for developing and managing housing for lower
and middle income groups. Until 1975, SID benefited from concessional
financing from the French Caisse Centrale de Coopgration Economique (CCCE),
a minority shareholder in SID. Since this financing has been discontinued,
no new projects have been undertaken. Between its creation in 1956 and
1975, SID built some 2,120 housiLng units, of which it still owns about
780, the rest having been sold through rent-purchase agreements. Of the
780 dwellings, 50 percent are under lease-purchase contracts, and the
balance under simple lease contracts. SID has a total staff of 34 persons
to manage the portfolio of properties under lease and lease-purchase. SID
has assets totalling US$6.2 million of which US$3.6 million is invested in
term deposits with five Djibouti banks. In the period 1980-1983
delinquencies in payments on leases and lease-purchase have averaged
28 percent of SID's portfolio. Technical assistance to deal with these
problems will be provided to SID) under the project (3 man-months). A
condition ofdisbursement for the Salines Ouest component in the project
would be that SID reduce and thereafter maintain their arrears on leased
and lease purchase properties delinquent for more than three months to less
than 20 percent of their portfolio of properties (Schedule 1, para 1,
Category (1)(b)) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
34.        Caisse de D6veloppement de Djibouti (CDD) (Development Bank).
The Caisse de Dgveloppement de Djibouti is a parastatal agency founded in
January 1983 as a development bank with capital from the Government
(51 percent), CCCE (14 percent), the Banque Europgenne d'Investissement
(14 percent) and six local commercial banks (21 percent). The objective of
CDD is to make medium and long term loans to industry, transport, fishing,
housing and in particular to small and medium scale enterprises which
generate employment. CDD is an organization still in its infancy and as
yet does not have its own payment facilities; it uses those of a commercial
bank. CDD was formed primarily to support directly productive investments;
however, its statutes specifically provide for the granting of loans for
low- and intermediate cost housing provided that these do not exceed
40 percent of the corporation's net worth. CDD has a total current staff
of five persons, the director is an expatriate recruited by CCCE. At the
time of appraisal CDD had granted loans amounting to DF 55 million
(US$310,000), of which DF 25 million (US$140,000) to the private sector
for real estate purchases, DF 15 million (US$85,000) to commercial firms
for equipment and DF 15 million (US$85,000) for farm equipment. CDD
ensures that it has proper guarantees and makes mortgage loans at 8 percent
interest for a period not exceeding 15 years. Mortgage loans are
subject to a ceiling of DF 3 million (US$17,000) each. Financial and
managerial technical assistance will be provided to CDD under the project
(33 man-months).
Government Initiatives in the Sector
35.        Urban Master Plan.  A Master Plan study for the long-term
development of the city of Djibouti has been prepared, with financing from
the European Development Fund. The study, completed in February 1981,
recommends the development of new residential areas to the west of the city
in the Balbala area, improvement of conditions in Balbala itself, and



- 10 -
correction of the drainage problem in the Old Wards. The general approach
suggested by the Master Plan is sound, calling for standards of housing and
other urban facilities to be set according to affordability criteria.
36.       Housing.  No significant housing development by the public sector
has taken place since 1975. Although the Government of Abu-Dhabi offered
financing for several hundred housing units after Independence, only about
50 were actually built. Recently, a demonstration project for 300 finished
houses (Citg Cheikh Osman) was undertaken by MPWUH with Saudi Arabian and
Kuwaiti financing. Construction cost estimates indicated that under full
cost recovery, these units wou]d be affordable only to 5 percent of the
population.
37.       The District of Djibcouti prepared and demarcated 650 plots
adjacent to Balbala in 1982, primarily to relocate people from the most
crowded areas of the community but also to settle refugees and to resettle
a small squatter group currently located next to the offices of MPWUH.  No
infrastructure services were provided. This was a successful project and
the District would like to continue this process until all of Balbala has
basic road access and all residents are on demarcated plots.
38.       Education.  The Government is acting rapidly to expand primary
education; primary school attendance in the city as a whole is about
60 percent of the relevant school-age population. However, literacy is
still low, as is the level of marketable skills among the population in
general. Only 9 percent of the population can read, write and count.
Several donors are financing construction of primary and secondary schools,
including vocational schools, as well as providing teachers. A primary
teacher training college has been in operation since 1980. However, there
is still a shortage of qualified candidates for admission to this college
and Djibouti will continue to depend on expatriate teachers for many years
to come.
39.       Water and Electricity are provided by state owned companies, the
Water Department of Djibouti (WDD) and the Djibouti Electricity Board (DEB)
(which is attached to the Ministry of Industry). The water distribution
network in the city needs rehabilitation. A WHO-CP sector mission visited
Djibouti in April 1981 and prepared a report of its findings dated December
1981. The African Development Fund agreed in May 1983 to finance a water
supply project for the city of ])jibouti based on a Belgian technical
assistance study by Tractionel of investment needs for reinforcement of
water supply systems. This project which will provide water to the Balbala
region includes 22.4 km of water distribution network with 38 standpipes
and 35 fire hydrants in Balbala.
40.       Industry and Artisanal Production.  Djibouti has only a small
local market and little artisanal or industrial activity has developed. A
small industrialization unit has been set up in the Ministry of Industry
but, as yet, no services are offered to small or large scale industry. The
labor force is lacking in industrial skills; while the need for basic
training is widespread, training facilities are not necessarily compatible
with the needs. Wage rates in the formal sector are high, sustained by
minimum wage legislation. Development of productive activities in the
industrial sector will,therefore, be extremely difficult.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.        The Government of Djibouti initially approached the Bank in 1981
for assistance to the urban sector. The Government then commissioned a
feasibility study financed by an IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of
US$500,000, and carried out by SEDES/Groupe Huit, a consortium of French
consultants. Throughout the feasibility study (1982/83), there has been a
close dialogue between the Comitg de Suivi (an interministerial committee
established by the Presidency) and the Bank Group. This dialogue helped to
translate the program of investments proposed by the feasibility study into
specific project components suitable for donor financing. The proposed
project was appraised in October 1983, jointly with USAID. Negotiations
were held in Washington from June 4 - 7, 1984 and supplementary
negotiations in Djibouti, July 11 and 12, 1984. The Djiboutian delegation
to Washington was led by Mr. Ahmed Aden, Director of Finance, Ministry of
Finance. The Djiboutian delegation in Djibouti was led by Mr. Ali Cheikh
Barkat, Director of Urban Planning and Housing, Ministry of Public Works,
Urban Planning and Housing. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 5005-DJI is
being circulated separately.
42.        Rationale for Bank's involvement.  With the country's population
concentrated in the city, an urban project is the best vehicle to have a
significant impact with scarce investment resources since Djibouti is in
effect a city-state. The Bank has a comparative advantage in working with
the Government to develop realistic policies for the urban sector
emphasizing cost recovery and lower investment costs. In addition, the
project is in line with Government priorities and Bank strategy for
institution building. Furtherniore, the Bank's participation in the sector
has laid the foundation for the Bank to coordinate activities in the sector
and attract other finance, in particular from USAID which is cofinancing
this project.
Project Objectives
43.        The objectives of the project are:  (i) to improve the living
conditions of the urban poor in the city of Djibouti (especially the
residents of Balbala and the Old Wards); and (ii) to strengthen the
absorptive capacity of the key agencies involved in the urban sector by
providing them with staff training, equipment, and a clearer and more
appropriate framework for the management of urban investments, and by
introducing more rigor in their cost recovery practices.
Project Description
44.        The project would include the following five components:
a) Old Wards. Upgradling and drainage works in the Old Wards.
The infrastructure works would alleviate stormwater damage
and provide protection from flooding of all low lying areas.
Roads, increased water distribution, fire hydrants and refuse
collection would also be included. The actions would benefit



- 12 -
all the wards (161 ha. and 10,390 families) but would be
particularly centered on wards 3, 5, and 6 (63 ha.,
4,529 families).
b) Balbala. Upgradinr of a squatter settlement containing the
poorest segment of the population on a total of 137 ha. with
4,900 households; this would include provision of roads,
public lighting, refuse collection, and construction of a
market. (Water is being provided under a separately financed
African Development: Fund credit.)
c) Salines Ouest. A site and service development as a joint
venture with the Societe Immobiliare de Djibouti (SID) on land
owned by them. This would be a first phase development to
provide 176 plots, with the construction of 106 core housing
units ranging between 16 and 35 m2 each, the remaining
70 serviced plots would be sold with services but no housirg.
SID's contribution would include the land and will finance the
construction of core housing units; the project will provide
for the cost of the off-site and on-site infrastructure.
d) Institutional Support. Technical support including staffing,
training and equipment to the Land Registry Office, the
District of Djibouti, SID, CDD, and a small Project Management
Unit (PMU).
e) Housing Credit. Credit for some 100 new housing units of
US$9,700 each approximately and some 600 loans of
approximately US$1,400 each to improve existing houses in
Balbala and the Old Wards.
Project Implementation
45.       The project would utilize the existing institutions and agencies
and would strengthen their operations as they implement the project. The
Land Registry Office would have contracting responsibility (mattre
d'ouvrage) for upgrading at Balbala and the Old Wards; execution
responsibility (maItre d'oeuvre) would rest with MPWUH. SID would have
primary responsibility for the site and service project at Salines Ouest;
execution responsibility would rest with MPWUH as technical agents. The
District of Djibouti would have primary responsibility for the construction
of a small market at Balbala, (execution responsibility resting with
MPWUH), and management of refuse collection in Balbala and the Old Wards.
Details of the relationship between the Government and SID were discussed
at negotiations (Section 3.01 (c), draft Development Credit Agreement) and
confirmed in an agreement whose execution would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Terms of reference for the water tariff study are completed; consultants
will be hired early in 1985 to carry out this study.
46.       The Project Management Unit (PMU) would consist of seven people,
a project manager, an expatriate adviser, two accountants, and three
support staff. The role of the I'MU would be to: program project
execution, ensure liaison between the executing agencies, authorize payment



- 13 -
for project expenses, administer technical assistance, and provide for
monitoring and overall supervision of the project, including the
preparation of consolidated project accounts. The PMU would report to an
Interministerial Committee whiLch would have a composition and would operate
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.01
(b) draft Development Credit Agreement). Official ratification of the
decree establishing PMU and appointment of its director are conditions of
effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
A satisfactory candidate has already been appointed as PMU director.
Project Costs
47.       The total cost of the Project, net of taxes and duties, is
estimated at US$15.23 million, of which 62 percent or US$9.53 million is
estimated to be foreign exchange. This cost includes refinancing of an IDA
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$500,000 which was approved in 1981
for project preparation and has been almost totally disbursed. Physical
contingencies amounting to 9.9 percent of total base cost have been
estimated at 15 percent for civil works based on preliminary designs for
all sites. Detailed designs for the infrastructure works to be carried out
during the first year of the implementation period have already started.
No physical contingencies were allowed for technical assistance, studies or
housing credit. Price contingencies of 3.5 percent for 1984, 8.0 percent
for 1985, and 9 percent thereafter have been applied to both the foreign
and local cost components. The resulting price escalation factor is equal
to 17.6 percent of base costs which with physical contingencies is equal to
about 21 percent of total base costs. The project would be exempt from
taxes and duties. Cost estimates for equipment and vehicles are based on
recent bid prices and quotations in Djibouti. The costs of civil works and
construction are in line with the costs of recent similar works in the
country.
Financing Plan
48.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$5.0 million will cover 40 percent
of total costs for vehicles and equipment net of taxes, 30 percent of total
costs net of taxes for civil and construction works, 40 percent of total
costs for consulting services, including refinancing of the PPF amounting
to US$500,000, and 33 percent of total costs of housing credit. The USAID
grant (US$5.5 million) will finance a share of all project components.
Caisse Centrale financing (US$1.0 million) will cover institutional support
to CDD and public lighting in Balbala. The Government contribution
amounting to US$2.7 million will cover local salaries of project personnel,
local expenditures relating to consulting services, 20 percent of total
expenditures for housing credit and additional operating expenses of the
Land Office beginning in 1986. The SID contribution (US$1 million) will
finance the core housing units in Salines Ouest.
Financial Arrangements
49.       The Government would make the proceeds of the IDA credit, the
USAID grant, the CCCE loan, and its own contribution available to the



- 14 -
implementing agencies, either as grants in the case of infrastructure
components normally financed from the Government budget or as subsidiary
loans to SID and CDD and Government allocations to LO and DD where costs
would be recovered. Funds for on-site infrastructure at Salines Ouest
would be onlent to SID at 8 percent per annum for a period of five years
with three years grace; the funds for housing credit would be onlent to CDD
at 6 percent per annum for a period of 12 years with one year grace. CDD
would make loans for housing improvement and new construction to final
beneficiaries at 8 percent per annum for 12 years with one year grace. CDD
presently makes housing loans at 8 percent per annum ; this would be
positive in real terms given the expected inflation rate in Djibouti during
the term of these loans. Execution of Project documents between the
government and CDD for housing Credit and with SID would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a), (Iraft Development Credit Agreement).
50.       To ensure prompt availability of funds at the start of the
project, a Revolving Fund (Special Account) would be opened at the Treasury
with an initial deposit of US$500,000, corresponding to the largest
estimated quarterly disbursement by IDA (Schedule 4 and Section 3.01 (d)
draft Development Credit Agreement) . All disbursements by IDA would be
made to this Special Account and its establishment would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Government and USAID contributions would be placed in a Project Account
(Section 3.01 (d) draft Development Credit Agreement) at the Treasury and
its opening would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b)), draft
Development Credit Agreement). All payments to the implementing agencies
would be made by the PMU from the Project Account and Special Account.
51.       Cost Recovery.  The cost recovery measures adopted are such that
they would relate the charges borne by the beneficiaries to the benefits
they receive. On site infrastructure costs in the Old Wards, Balbala and
Salines-Ouest would be recovered directly through plot sales in the case of
the Old Wards and through property taxes in Balbala and Salines-Ouest. A
draft decree covering sale of land and recovery of costs for infrastructure
investments in Balbala and the Old Wards was submitted and agreed during
negotiations. Loans made by CDD for home improvement and home purchase
would be recovered directly through loan repayments by the beneficiaries.
The costs that are recovered direcl:ly account for 73 percent of total
project costs. An additional 14 percent of total project costs would be
recovered indirectly through property and refuse taxes payable by the
population of the city. The costs recovered in this manner are for
off-site infrastructure at Balbala and Salines-Ouest, the incremental
operating costs at LO and the institutional support at DD to improve refuse
collection. Both direct and indirect recovery would be closely monitored
by the PMU. The cost of institutional support to LO, DD, SID, CDD and the
PMU (13 percent of total project costs) are not considered recoverable, and
would be absorbed by the Government.
Project Cash Flows
52.       Cash flow projections for the project indicate that by 1990 when
all project components have been implemented, the cumulative net inflows
for the project would be US$1.9 million. The cumulative surplus by the
year 1994 would be US$10 million. The bulk of the surplus funds relate to



- 15 -
the sale of Government land and the recovery of infrastructure costs at
Balbala and the Old Wards in a shorter time than the repayment period on
other components. This surplus, which would be deposited in the Urban
Development Fund to be established at the Treasury, would allow for
replicability of the project in other parts of Balbala, the Old Wards, and
Salines Ouest, as well as other urban infrastructure investments (Section
3.01 (e), draft Development Credit Agreement). The establishment of an
Urban Development Fund at the Treasury would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01 (c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Agreement was reached during negotiations on the use of these funds to
finance future urban development projects, particularly the replicability
of infrastructure investments included in the project (Section 3.01 (f),
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Replicability
53.       A mechanism has been set up for replicability of the project in
the target areas of the city included in the feasibility study but not
financed by the proposed project. Funds are included in the proposed
project to finance detailed designs of future sites and the Government
would prepare by December 31, 1984 a priority plan setting out the sites
that should next be upgraded and developed. The Government would also use
the funds recovered through the UDF to finance the civil works for the
proposed future sites. SID would undertake to use the funds recovered from
the sale of plots and core housing units at Salines Ouest to develop other
sections of the Salines Ouest site. The project would thus establish a
means for replicating the results by (i) establishing priorities for
development of future sites, (ii) providing funding for detailed design of
the future sites, and (iii) by establishing a means to finance future
development of these sites using the UDF.
Procurement
54.       Civil works, totaling US$7.4 million, comprising roads, drainage,
water supply, sewerage and electricity would be awarded through ICB, in
accordance with World Bank guidelines. A preference of 7.5 percent would
be applied to bids from local civil works contractors.  Contracts for
simple works such as those for the cleaning of existing drains, land
filling, the construction of the Balbala market and the improvement of the
District garage facilities, totalling US$0.9 million, would be awarded
through LCB, following local procedures acceptable to the Association (see
para. 56).
55.       Procurement of equipment and vehicles financed through the
Project would total US$0.7 million; they would be packaged as far as
possible and awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with World Bank guidelines. Office equipment
(US$0.1 million) over US$10,000 in value and less than US$20,000 would be
purchased through local competitive bidding (LCB), in which foreign
suppliers are eligible to participate, following local procurement
procedures acceptable to the World Bank. Office equipment and supplies
valued at less than US$10,000) would be purchased by local shopping with at
least three price quotations (see para. 56).



- 16 -
56.       Ergineerirg services for detailed design and supervision, consultants for trainirg
and technical assistance totallirg US$3.2 million would be obtained fron consultirg firms or
consultants on ternms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank. Incremental operatirg
expernes include US$0.7 million for local staff salaries. All contracts above the value of
US$50,000 for equipment and US$100,000 for civil works wauld be subject to prior Bank review;
they wuld cover 75 percent of the value of works and 75 percent of equipment value. Other
contracts wduld be subject to post-award review.
57.       Procurement arrargements are sumarized below:
Not         Total
PYo ect Elements            ICB         iLCB         Other        Applicable      Cost
(US$ million)
Off-site infrastructure     2.6 (0.8)*                                            2.6 (0.8)
Onr-site infrastructure     3.9 (1.4)                                              3.9 (1.4)
Market, drain cleanirg,                  0.9 (0.4)                                 0.9 (0.4)
garage, land fillirg
Hbuse construction          0.8 (0.0)                                             0.8 (0.0)
Vehicles                    0.5 (0.2)                                              0.5 (0.2)
Maintenance and)            0.3 (0.1)                                              0.3 (0.1)
Office equipment
Design and supervision                                0.5 (0.2)                   0.5 (0.2)
Technical assistance,                                 1.7 (0.4)                    1.7 (0.4)
trainirg and studies
Project Unit Support                                  1.0 (0.4)                    1.0 (0.4)
Hoasirg credit                                                      1.8 (0.6)      1.8 (0.6)
Incremental operatirg                                               0.7 (0.0)     0.7 (0.0)
expenses
PPF refinancirg                                                     0.5 (0.5)     0.5 (0.5)
TOIAL                   8.0 (2.5)    1.0 (0.4)    3.2 (1.0)     3.0 (1.1)    15.2  (5.0)
*Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amunts financed by mDA.



- 17 -
Disbursements
58.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit of SDR 4.9 million
(US$5.0 million) will be made so that the total amount disbursed under each
category will be as follows: (a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and
95 percent of local expenditures up to 40 percent of total costs of
equipment, vehicles and supplies; (b) 100 percent of expenditures up to
30 percent of total costs for civil works; (c) 100 percent of expenditures
up to 50 percent of total costs for consulting services; (d) 100 percent of
expenditures up to 33 percent of total costs for housing credit; and (e)
100 percent refinancing of PPF. The participation of USAID is expected to
be in the form of joint financing. An understanding concerning
co-financing arrangements has been worked out between USAID and IDA. U.S
AID and IDA will disburse jointly for all project items. All contracts
financed by IDA and USAID will be procured in accordance with World Bank
procurement guidelines. Both institutions will inform each other of any
disbursement request as well as any disbursement made under said
contracts. The Development Credit Agreement contains the
cross-effectiveness and cross-default clauses normal for this type of
co-financing.
59.       Since this is one of the first IDA projects in Djibouti, there is
no disbursement profile for the country. The disbursement schedule used is
based on the disbursement profile for IDA credits in the region, adapted to
take account of refinancing of the PPF of US$500,000 and establishment of a
special account at the Treasury or US$500,000.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
60.       Separate project accounts would be established by the LO, DD,
SID, and CDD (Section 4.01 (a), draft development Credit Agreement). The
LO and PMU would be requirecl to submit audited statements of project
transactions to IDA within eight months of the close of the Government
fiscal year (Section 4.01 (c), draft Development Credit Agreement). The
audit report of the PMU would include a separate analysis of the use of IDA
funds under the special account. CDD and SID would be required to submit
audited project related accounts to IDA within eight months of the close of
their fiscal years (Section 4.01 (d), draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       The PMU would prepare and transmit to the Assqciation progress
reports each quarter that would briefly identify major problems and
recommend solutions; review the performance of implementing agencies; and
maintain performance indicators to monitor project goals (Section 3.04 (b)
(iii), draft Development Criedit Agreement). A Project Completion Report
would be prepared by the PMU and sent to IDA within six months of the close
of disbursements (Section 3.04 (d), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
62.       Direct benefits have been quantified for project components
constituting 69 percent of total project costs representing the upgrading
components for the Old Wards, Balbala and Salines Ouest. The other
components, which constitute 31 percent of total project costs, represent
institutional support for the urban institutions and would benefit the



- 18 -
urban population as a whole. Economic rates of return based on
quantifiable direct benefits have been calculated for the Old Wards,
Balbala, and Salines Ouest sites. The economic rates of return all exceed
18 percent, with an overall rate of return of 26 percent.
63.       Urban poverty impact.  The poverty income level per capita
amounts to DF 29,857 (US$168) per year. Household incomes amount to
DF 179,142 (US$1,008) per year. Over 90 percent of the households in the
Old Wards (9,350 households) and virtually 100 percent of the households in
Balbala (2,500 households) have incomes below the poverty level.
Therefore, these components, which represent 34 percent of total project
costs and will benefit slightly more than 11,850 poor families, are
virtually serving the target poverty group as defined by the Bank.
64.       The indirect benefits of the project fall into two categories:
(a) improvement in capacity of urban institutions and (b) enhancement of
capacity for locally financed projects. The project would have a
substantial impact on the key urban institutions by improving their
operations and enabling them to implement future projects. In addition
alternative methods for financing urban services and lower income shelter
delivery well be developed through the Urban Development Fund and the
financial participation in Salines Ouest.
65.       The main risks faced by the project are those derived from
weaknesses in the management capacity of the implementation agencies and
this may lead to delays in project implementation and cost recovery.
Special attention was given to institutional support to limit the project
execution capacity risk. Specific measures have also been included to
limit the cost recovery risk (see para. 51). Security of tenure would be
provided to residents of the target project areas contingent on repayment
of the upgrading costs and a draft decree covering this has been reviewed
by IDA. Similarly, a draft decree providing for simplified building
permits and lower building standards for Balbala and the Old Wards has also
been reviewed. Should the owners of existing structures in Balbala and the
Old Wards not exercise their purchase options within a three-year period,
the plots would be sold by the LO to other purchasers, with priority given
to existing tenants.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Djibouti and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this Report.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 22, 1984



-20-                                       ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
T A B L E  3A                                        PAGE 1
DJIBOUTI                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DJIBOUTI                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) Is
HOST                 (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb         lb       RECENT/b       MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960-      1970       ESTIMATE-    AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                   22.0       22.0          22.0
AGRICULTURAL                             2.5        2.5           2.5
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                         ..         ..            ..           1112.9                     1149.6
ENERGY CONSUEMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)         7506.0     4690.0        1619.0            529.0                      622.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,NID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)        126.0      160.0         330.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           49.6       62.0          66.0             29.7                       48.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  0.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)
POPULATION MOMENTUM
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                            5.7        7.3          14.5             55.8                       36.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND                51.4       65.3        130.6             111.5                      461.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                              ..          ..         34.0              45.4                       43.6
15-64 YRS                              ..          ..         65.0              51.7                       53.1
65 AND ABOVE                            ..         ..          1.0               2.9                        3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                  2.0        2.4          6.0 /c            2.8                        2.8
URBAN                                   ..        4.7          6.8               5.2                        4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)              ..         ..         49.2              47.0                       40.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)              ..         ..         18.3              15.2                       11.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   ..         ..           3.2              3.2                        2.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)               ..         ..
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..           ..                ..                       22.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                             ..         ..            ..             91.6                       97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)            ..         ..            ..             98.2                      110.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                ..         ..           ..              56.7                       70.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             ..         ..            ..             17.0                       17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             23.0       16.0         10.0              18.7                       14.6
HEALTh
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)             ..         ..         50.0              51.7                       57.5
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          69.1        32.6         30.0 ld,e        102.7                      101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                   ..         ..         43.0 Id,f         35.6                       59.7
URBAN                                   ..         ..         53.0 /=           54.1                       84.5
RURAL                                   ..         ..         20.0 /d,f         27.3                       38.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         ..
URBAN                                   ..         ..
RURAL                                   ..         ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             9690.0      3640.0       1960.0           11948.3                    4345.1
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                  ..       600.0        550.0 /g         2248.9                     1831.1
POP. PER NOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                190.0      170.0        240.0 /g          986.9                      632.9
URBAN                                   .     .     .        180.0 /R          368.7                      545.5
RURAL                                   *-         '         420.0 7j         4012.1                     2513.5
ADMISSIONS PER- HOSPITAL BED              ..       16,5 /h      13.7 /g             ..                       26.2
SOUSING
AVERAGE S12E OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..         ..          7.0 /e
URBAN                                   ..         ..
RURAL                                   ..         ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..         ..
URBAN                                   ..         ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (T OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..         ..            ..               ..                       46.2
URBAN                                   *-         *'            *-               *-                       77.7
RURAL                                   .. .M                   ..                ..                       16.1



-    -                                           ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
T A B L E  3A                                         PAGE 2
DJIBOUTI                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DJIBOUTI                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                  (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT        MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
19601b     1970/b     ESTIMATE/b    AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                        ..          ..          32.0             91.0                        88.3
MALE                        ..           ..           ..              90.5                      102.5
FEMALE                      ..           ..           ..              73.6                       73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       ..           ..           8.0              17.4                       43.0
MALE                        ..           ..           ..              23.7                       52.3
FEMALE                      ..           ..           ..              14.8                       33.0
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)            37.9         44.0          25.3               5.3                       10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              36.0         36.0         44.0              38.6                        30.3
SECONDARY                            13.0         12.0          19.0             24.3                        23.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..          ..          10.0              35.6                       43.5
CONSIMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/bHOUSAND POP               ..        48.7          45.8             20.7                        17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              ..        43.8          54.8            100.8                       138.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..         6.3          16.1              18.5                       46.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                ..           ..            ..              17.2                       31.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..          ..           2.3 /i            0.3                        1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)                 ..          ..          79.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        ..          ..            ..              33.8                       10.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   ..          ..           1.7             57.1                        42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      ..          ..          20.6              17.4                       27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..          24.0             36.3                        26.2
MALE                                    ..          ..            ..             47.6                        46.4
FEMALE                                 ..           ..            ..              25.1                        5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                ..           ..           1.5               1.4                        1.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..            ..             525.3                      274.8
RURAL                                   ..          ..            ..            249.0                       177.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..            ..            477.4                       402.6
RURAL                                  ..           ..            ..            186.0                       284.9
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (x)
URBAN                                   ..
RURAL                                  ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961- "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1980 and 1982.
/c   This high rate reflects steady immigration from neighboring countries; /d  UNICEF data; /e 1978; /f 1976; /& 1977;
/h 1972; /i 1975.
JUNE, 1984



.itE22E.                                                              I                  00 N-ON-N            IN
a                                                                                           I                                  I
O!ONNNE!!fl2               OONNNN            -"       -                     N-NO  o  N-   U     0000000000 ONjNNNNNNoO            -              r           'N
NNOO I
N  NON-NOoN  .             oN-oN                           ''
N      NOONONO..                0.ONNNNOONN.NNN         ONNONNO                                     -
NOON-N-NON'                                                                - NN-NNONN'N  NONNO NOON              NON.N.O.NONN        I         I
NON                                  NNNONNOO   ONNNNNNNNN                      NooE;oOENE2N...,, OOOOoo. o-o&   N.NNN-
-.                        00010 NONO                ONNON                 2
NOIN-ONO.    NO.10000
NNNO2EEa.2Ozg0           ONNO  NIN                ONNNINNNN           I             ONN-.ONN  N N                    I
-            j                       N NO    N  N! ON
NIX..  2                                            -c -                                 
ONNNNOJN                                      N NNNNN  NNNNNN-NONNNNN-N-N                                  N
aNNON.. NE?.-E  N-NNNN  ONNNE0Ea0                       .oo
NNNNON-N   EEE!'O                                  NOONNNOON'N                    NNN*
oONo.o      NNN.N-ON.N N-            NONNN-O1N20                                             -.NoN-NN
N-N N N              NN-NN0NNONoOOO                               NN-NNN-N.N...ZN%OINNNNON-               0000                NNON-!O2ONNi
-                                 NOONON  aN-NONNOONON  IN N                                         N NIN' ON
N                                                                           N- NN.O..ONN2'   NNNELENEEZN!INN ON-OONo.
NNEZE222  N-N-N-  NON-N-    ON-N                  NNNNON    NON-NON  IO*OOO
N ON-N-ON-N 0  N               N? 10 -    OO0Oo N N 'o
N N     N 0  0.   N  N- N N  N- N    N.
N-.NNNNNNNN-N. N-                                                              OONNNNN            N
N  N NO N N- ONINNO  N-N N  *N*N N N     N N-N N N NN NON'               N N    N N N  NON N
a      N  *NN N-ON-NO ON. ON-ON-N-ON-N             ONN  N
N NOONNON                 N N N N  N-
ONNNN  N N NN N. 000.                         NNONNN22N-X!NN-
ONNN.N    N- NNNNN.N  N            NNNNNNNNNNNNN.N                 NNEaON   NjONON.ONNNNNN-N-O NNNNNN
ONOONNON   NO N                    - N-          ON N N N N N N N N N
N2;N!N-N-N0  NNNNO   - NON                                                                                 ON
N OOON                            N N N N -  N N ON N N N N N                         N 5¼.
NNNNN-ONNNONNNNN-ON                               OINI2aZOIOONOE;a.MENNNNN N N-NONNaNIE  N
N  N N ON N NNON'NNNNN ONNN           2..  OIEO  N-   NNNNONONNNNNN                     NN N NON  NNON   N    N-N  N.
N- N    N.N N NNINN                           NONOONNON- NON   ONNIa N                    NN  ON
ON             N   N N - N           N N-N- ON NOON   NNNO NO ON N N N ONN..NN...-N  N N ON
INNNN-NNON-NNON<NNNNNNPN..2
N  N NNNNONON-oNN.  NON ONO!                !N                 NONiN  N-N
N             aIaX N N ONNi…INI   ONNIN   N NON  N. NNNINI NN-N-. .N    "NON NNNNNNONNNON N ON
- -             N  No    N-NNNNN2N  NONO. -   NNN   NO 000
N NOONNo - NNNN'NO ON
N N-NNONNNN N N-            N-NO  'N N- N.NN ONO  NON N    N   N
N-ON N-ON N NN-NN  NNN ONN- - -  N- NO                 N N          ON
NONONiNNNNON  NONNN- NNO                                 N    0    N        NNN%
N NO    N-NOON  NON-N                                        22                                              NNNN-NNNN-NNN-    NO   0
0000 NNOONN          N
EROXNSOENNNONNNNN ON   NONNO                   N N-IN- 0i2O    NON   2         N  NO
N-ON-NON           N  N  N - N N  NNNNNN N NNNNNNO NONONON
NO N'             NNNNN N-N aONON-ON-0  N-,  ONN                  - ON-ON NNN-NN   NNN-NNNN ONNNN
ON-NON   NNNN  NON  N      N N NONONO ONNON  N N-NNNNN N NNN   NON-N                    N N NO N          NON N ONNNNNONI2N NNNN
N N 0           ON-ON-.                       N
N N N N N N N N           N N N N N N N N- N NON-ON-NON  N 0                NONNNNNNON'ONNNN  N NOON-NOONN   0                                        0 N N N N N -
N N NNNNNNNNN-O                   NON-NO    ONN  NON N' N N N N N-N.NNON                                N ON-NOON N   N - N N N N N N  N
N 0 N  N N N ON'NONN                NNN-NOONNNNNN
N' N N  ONONONNN N' N N             N N N N N N N N N N N  N N N N  N N N N N         NON'  ONONNOONNO               N N N N N N N' N N  N
N - N  ON-N-N-N N N N N N           ONNOONNO  N N N  NOON-N        21000             N N N No. N N   .N' WoN-NooN NNNNNONNOON   N
NOON  ON N N               N  NON  N                     N N N      N N
N' oWI!2 fO                ONNiN-aN   N  - NN-  ON
NOON   ONNN ON N N                                                     ON               NNNOONNNON                    NOON NoN'N-
NNN-NNNN       N N               NMONNONNOONNO                 N                    N N NN N N  NNNNNO'N  N NN.NNON  NON ONO  N-                              2000  NON
N N' 0 N N  N N N N N O'ONNN             ONNNONNNNNNO N-N  N- 0 N ON                    N 0  N N       NNNO   NNNNNONNNNN   NON
N               N.J  N              ONONON   00000                      N N N-
NO                                    ON         ON
NjO    NaN   NNNNN                  NNONOO  NON. N NN  ON N N    . N-NO                N N NO' N
NON   N No N                              ON N 'ONO  N    N NNNN  NNN-O  NO  N N   N'  No. NO
NNNN.N20  ...       NNNNN    NON                    N            NINONNONOON   N-NO
NOON  NOON NON-N-NN N  N
N-NON  NONONO    NO                   N N NI  N N  0'22?E _ NNN   ON_ON ON NNN
NO ONNONNO                                                                                                                N
N       ONNON  NNN-NN                                                                  'NO    N              N N    N N  N NON  N N N 10
-     ...                 N N  II N 0  IN N - N- N N    N  N N   N N. N N N 6 o N- N  0     N              -    -.
NON    NNN=N N NN                     NNNNNN                                                      N              Noo.       NOON-  N
N                                                       NON ON-N-N        ON                                               ON-N
--              N  NO                N ON-N.NN              -  N  N  N N-                  N N N  NNNNONNNNNN   N                                                  N
N-N NN  NN   N        N  NONNON                   N  N-NNN*NNNNNNNNNNNN              N              N-   NON   NON NON  NO, N-
ON N N               N N     N N N N        N  N    N                  N    0  N 0 '        NO0   N                                   00000  ONiN
N                   N N                N- N   N . N           N-  N    N                  N  I NN'NNENNO                                         N       N N N N ON
N    N N              N                         N     N N N-N  NO  N
NON 2
N
N INN       0-N         N N-                  0  '00
ON-N'           ONNOOOOON-N 0            2    a                                        ON-                                    ON-
N ON
OON-NOOONIN-NN !32220  *ONNOOON-ON                NON-NON             .000 ON-NON-.NN  0.01                       00000
IF                                                            2ia9a'a&a IN-N NONNIONONO             N-NON  ONO
NOON-NON N-              oN" 22-  2            j23N-NE2                                     H                              ONONNON N N N 000000
NONONNONNON N- N-NON o NOON ONNO ONNNNN N- N-NOoooo.N-N.fNFEN 000.0
NNN-OOo NON-
.0N0- ONNOONNON NONO
0000                    NNOINOOOON-NN-NNO                             I      LI   NOON N-N N-NO    ON-NON               0000   NooN
OONNNONN ONNO            N.ONONN-N-EO            O*N ONONON-NOF        N-NOON-NON-NO              N N NO
N N N- NONNO N 0 N- NNON NOON NO
ON          N                            N.NNN   'N-ON NONNON             NOON  N
N            'NON NOON-N-NON  NOON    NONNONONNO                 N ONNO  NON              ONOONON-ONNO   N NO  ONN-...oN NO
NOON NOON              o o N N   o N.O   ON- NN-OON N N N N            - N-NOON-ON-0            000    ON-ON-           NON ON-NON   ON0  NON
NON-NON . NOON-NO NONONONO
0.000                      I   NON-N-NO                NNNN'OO   000   NON N-N No   ONON   NNOONNNNNN                 NNNNN' NOONNOON
H
ooo. 022EN-   5¼N  OO2OL0aN!E ON-N- NO    ONOONOOON-N                     N N NNN-NN- NN' NON' O    N NOON  N-NO                         NOjON  NON
0000                         N- N NON    N-NON NON-N
I                                                                                        N- ON  N ON-  N. N
000  N-NON                NO      ON-ON-NON'                           oooooI                  NNooo.o.oo               N- NOONNO oo N'NN0NN
NOON- N N INEEO 0100.0 NOON ON-N NO0 ON-NO NON-NOON NON- 'NON-ON N-NON- ONONO NO
ON-NON N-NON N- N-NON NIONO N-N ON-NON ONNONO NONo N-N-NON-N
F 00.00  aa'a'                                     NO N NON. N NOOO N-   NON  NNNON-N
NOON-ON      ON-NON-                                                                                N N-Nooo    N-  N  N N
N N NOIONONONOy N N-N. NNN'
ON-N            N- NNOOONNINNNON-O    ONN  NON  N N              NON
NO   NON  NO   NONO   N N-  No oN-N  'N  NO   000000   N-N ON ON         N 0000  N-NO    ON
ENNO%  010                            O'NwN-      N ONNNONN N-                               [                                           NON 0   NO
NOON   N                         ooEEj0 'NO    N 000 NONOONNON-   N  No NNON-N N-' ooNNONOO No  00   NOON ON N-N  N-ON N    OOOo   NOON-N  NO 00   NO.0  00 N...0  N-NO   NON    ON ONO 0.00   ON-N- N-ON-N  N ON  ON
NON               o 'NON N NOON-N ON   NOON-N- NO
ON-N-                               0 0 N- N      ONONOON-NO               ON-NON  NO oN NON-N  N-N-NOON           OrN-
0233                  N-   No            N 000000  ON                00000                  ooo '0  000
ONONO                      N- N-  N-  N-NO
00 0  00 ..           N-N--NO       N- N-NN-                                 lON-NNON-0ON-NN-    00   oooo                 No    oo o NO NO  N-N
002002        ON- NI     3                           ON-   NONNN-ooj            'NE22N           NOON   N  0  00
N-NOON-NON    oNO  NOON                  N-  NON' NON-ON-NON N    o.. N-NOON                  o            ON-NON   N
NON             NOON-ON-N-N                            N-N-NOON    -No -00000                           231:3
0'              3gN;go       o3o23       ONNOONONO                 ON- N-  0000000  N    -N                          N ONo   0 N-N
0000 NOON ONONO NN-3'N-33333 3000 ONO N oooo NOON-ON-N N-NON N N
N-N                  N   N-N-  N-N-                                   NoN       NO            N- NNN  ON    0000  ION        '  NO NN-ON NN  NON-        jN-
NON-ON-N-N NON NOON-ON
'N- N-N 20 NNNN N NOON
N-ON N-NNON NON- 000000
ooooooo3                  NON-N                  NNOOOO*NN-
Ni N ON N NON ON ON-Noo N NO NON-N
O NOON-                INN-ON No 1000  00  NO                                                     NON   N NO
NO 0 0 0 NOON-ON ON-NO N N-
O 20 No NONNN N- NOON-NON O,0 N ON ON-N
N- N- o o o o                                                                         00000                                 0. ooo ooo N N-NOON
N-No o NON- aE'N32N-3N i3''2 NO
N N                                                                     O0  No   ONNO    oo6N-2!N-N-N-                                NON-N- ON-ON
NOON-NON   2                NON-NON ON-ONNON                               N-NON  NOON-aNN  .  N-N
N                          ONNO I N-ON              NON 000  0000  00  NO ON- NO 000000  NO'
NN-2N-Z32IOON N'
N-         NoN-    00000000   0 00
IN-N-
N                                                                 N 0                  o       N- N N- -0 N-                       0 N-NO N-No
10 0 N- NOON-N- o 0 NOON N-N NO NoNo
2 NOON  NO                            NON-NON                              oN-N-N-NON-   CooN   oo
NOON-No                                         ON-N  NOONNON                                    NNNN-N-O.N                ID 00 N N  N  N- 0 0 0 N- N N N  0
N N N- N N N                         N N ON-ONo
N-ON!      N             NON-No                               N-'N-N-N NON
NON-NON N
N No NO                              N      NON
N ONION                 N-   0 NIN-N-NZ  12 3                 La
N. N N 0 o                           0 000
O     o       0100                       o o
0                                             0     0                       N NO NO
N-. 0
QN



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
DJIBOUTI: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1982
Annual Rate of Growth
(Constant prices)
US$ Mln      %       1979-82         1981-82
GDP at Market Prices                  355,0   100,0          3,0            2,3
Gross Domestic Investment              87,3    24,6        38,0            22,5
Gross Domestic Saving                 -35,1     9,9           -               _
Gross National Saving                   4,3      1,2           -              -
Exports of Goods and Services         121,1    34,1        -4,6           -9,7
Imports of Goods and Services         243,5    68,6         8,8             5,1
OUTPUT IN 1982
Value Added
US$ Mln.     __
Agriculture                                       22,3           6,3
Industry                                         49,1           13,8
Services                                        222,5          62,7
Unallocated                                       61,1          17,2
355,0         100,0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1982            % of GDP
US$ Mln        1978-82    1982
Total Receipts                            132,2           34,4      37,2
Current Expenditure                       111,9           22,6      31,5
Current Surplus                            20,3           11,8       5,7
Capital Expenditure                        65,3           17,8      18,4
Capital Grants                             29,8            7,6       8,4
Global Surplus/Deficit                    -15,2            1,7      -4,3



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                  1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
(In US$ Mn. outstanding end period.)
Money Supply                              83,4    103,0   111,9  119,5  147,8
Bank Credit to Public Sector            -36,2    -46,7   -66,4  -77,9  -57,8
Bank Credit to Private Sector             26,1     41,5    55,7   68,8   95,4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money Supply
As Percentage of GDP                      34,9     36,1    34,0   33,6   41,4
GDP Deflator (1978 = 100)                100,0    114,9   128,1  134,4  132,2
Annual Percentage Changes in:
GDP Deflator                                -      14,9    11,5    4,9   -1,6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                -      29,0    42,2   17,3  -25,8
Bank Credit to Private Sector               -      59,2    34,2   23,4   38,6



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
DJIBOUTI: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million)
1978     1980       1981 1/      1982 1/
Exports of goods, NFS.               109       143        138          121
Imports of goods, NFS.               130       214        222         243
Resource Gap                         -21       -71        -84        -122
Factor Payments, Net                 -18       -17        -15         -28
Unrequitted Transfers, Net            46        73         73           68
Balance on Current Account             7       -15        -26         -82
MLT Borrowing, Net                    -1         8         -1           23
Private Investment, Net               -5        10         11           12
Capital Grants                        20        28         24          13
Errors and Omissions                   -        -3          5          -2
Variations in Reserves                 -       -28        -13           36
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Fixed parity between Djibouti france and US$
US$ 1 = DF 177.721
Exports in 1982
US$ mln.
Exports of Goods in Transit                      33                      27
Re-exports of Goods                              50                      41
Exports of Services                              38                      32
Total                                           121                     100
EXTERNAL DEBT, December 1982          US$ mln.
External Public Debt                          IBRD/IDA Lending, March 31, 1984
Outstanding and Disbursed              40.1                        IBRD    IDA
Outstanding &
DEBT SERVICE AS % OF EXPORTS                    Disbursed            -    0.74
1.  Debt service as %                        Undisbursed             -    8.26
of total exports                    2.8  Outstanding incl.
Undisbursed          -    9.40
2. Debt service as %
of locally produced exports2/       9.0
1/ Provisional estimates.
2/ Since almost all goods exported from Djibouti are re-exports, total
foreign exchange revenue earned by the Djibouti economy comes mainly
from exports of services.



- 26 
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN DJIBOUTI
A.  Statement of Bank Loans/IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1984)
Loan or                                              US$ million amount
Credit                                               Less Cancellations
Number      Year    Borrower    Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1232-DJI    1982    Djibouti    Technical         -      3.0     2.22
Assistance
for Planning
and Statistics
1303-DJI    1983    Djibouti    1st Highway       -      6.4     6.04
TOTAL                                       -      9.4     8.26
of which has been repaid                    _      -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/           -      9.4
TOTAL undisbursed                                  9.4     8.26
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1984)
None



- 27 -
ANNEX III
DJIBOUTI
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suplementary Project Date Sheet
I.  Timetable of key events
(a)   Identification                                  1981
(b)   Project preparation                              1982-83
(c)   Appraisal mission:                              October 1983
(d)   Negotiations:                                   June and July 1984
(e)   Board Presentation:                             September 1984
(f)   Date of effectiveness:                          December 1984
II. Special IDA Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
(i) establishment of: an Urban Development Fund at the Treasury
(para. 52), ancd Special and Project Accounts at the
Treasury (para. 50);
(ii)  executed agreement between the Government and CDD, after
consultation wiLth IDA, for housing credit (para. 49);
(iii) executed agreement between Government and SID, after
consultation wiLth IDA, for execution of the Salines Ouest
component (para. 45); and
(vi)  official promulgation of decree establishing PMU to manage
and supervise the Urban Development Project and report to
a Ministerial Committee whose composition and operation
will comply wilth terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (para. 46).
(b) Condition of Disbursement
For Salines Ouest, SED would reduce and thereafter maintain
arrears on leased and lease purchase properties delinquent for more than
three months to less than 20 percent of their portfolio of properties
(para. 33).



I



IBRD 17672
YEMEN       P. PD. R.
DJIBOUTI                                            :15°                                  ARAB       YEMEN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                      REP 
PRoIT rE DE vEL OPPEMENT URSA/N ll
SUBPROJECT LOCATIONS
EMPLACEMENT DES S0US-PAOJETS
I00 :      /}   PSOMALIAA10
ETHIOPIA
Of"f                                                                                       40'              4,50 
SUBPROJECT LOCATIONS
EMPLACEMENT DES 50OUS-PROJETS
PRtMARY ROADS
ARTERES PRINC/PAI ES
:+t- :'RAILROAD
CHEMIN Df FER
BUILT-UP AREAS
ZONES DEVELOPPEES
-       _* - >       -         X  .            \ \ .        :        --    INTERNATiONAL BOUNDARIES
L IM/TES /NTERNAT/ONALES
' x<, , ,' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-LD 5 \                                                                  1/     v- 1  0.5 1lS 2
'-\ 'I; I I                                       '\ -, . / \ X KILOMETERS
\\, th - , I                                                  \ III'll
-.1. _,'\I . _d_f f.X t
ALBA, ft \Li
This map has been prepared byI\
The World dank sn stafl exolosovely1\i
tnt tile coiteenlence ol the/\\
readers and as excIosovely ton the                                            \ 
internal one af The Wonld Bank
and the letemsonat Finance
Conpenaten The denomnat'ons
uned 00d the bounda-es Shown
on ths ato  do n-t mply, os-te    ('                                                                                          -
part at The A/ontd Bank ano inec 
Intennatonal Flsnane Corporabton \/
any jodg-ent 00 the legal status
af any territory an any
endorsement r acceptance at 
such beundaries        ~                          
X   ---  .         \  X                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DECEM8ER 1983



