RESTRICTED
B RECULAT G COPY            Report No. P-672
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESf;j
IN GENERA FILES
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR THE
SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE II
February 12, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPIMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THlE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR THE SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE II
1o        I submit the folloiing report and recammendation (a) on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$12 million to the
Repub2_Jc of Turkey to assist in financing the irrigation, drainage and on-
farm development in Stage II of the Seyhan Irrigation Project in the Adana
plain, and (b) on a proposed credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to US$12 million to the Republic of Turkey for the same purpose.
PART I. HISTORICAL
2,        Turkey has so far received eight Bank loans for a total amount of
$95.7 million, of which $55n8 million was outstanding at January 31, 1969.
It has also received seven IDA credits for a total amount of $80.5 million.
A loan of $22.8 million (63-TU) was made in 1952 for the multi-purpose Seyhan
Dam and related power facilities, and an IDA credit of $20 million (38-TU)
was made in 1963 for the Seyhan Irrigation Project - Stage I.
3.        On the south coast of Turkey between the Taurus mountains and the
Mediterranean lies the Adana plain, potentially one of the richest areas of
the country.   The Seyhan river flows through the center of the plain.   The
whole area is being developed as a multi-purpose project comprising flood
control, power generation and irrigation.  Work on the first phase of the
project, consisting of levees for flood control and irrigation canals, began
in 194t) and was completed in 1953.  The second phase consisted of the
construction of the principal dam on the Seyhan river together with a power
generating plant and transmission system and some additional flood control
and irrigation works.
4.        The second phase was completed in 1956, and the original intention
was to proceed immediately with the last phase which was completion of the
irrigation works on the plain.   However, technical investigations revealed
that there were serious drainage problems on parts of the plain, and further
studies carried out by a firm of consultants engaged by the Government
resulted in a phased plan for the development of the plain.   Their plan
was adopted by the Government and the project which constituted the first
stage of that plan was financed by an IDA credit of $20 million (38-TU) in
May 1963.   The Turkish authorities were informed that a further loan or
credit for the second stage of the Seyhan irrigation plan would receive
consideration at a later date.



-2-
5.        The Government of Turkey has now requested a Bank loan and an
IDA credit to assist in financing Stage II of the Seyhan Irrigation Project.
Work on Stage I, comprising irrigation and drainage development of 625000
hectares and within that area, on-farm development of 53,000 hectares is
nearing satisfactory completion after a slow start.    A mission to appraise
Stage II was in Turkey in June 1967.   A supervision mission for Stage I and
an updating appraisal mission for Stage II visited Turkey in May 1963.
Preliminary discussions on the proposed Stage II project were held in
Washington in November 1967.   Negotiations on an IDA credit for the project,
subject to IDA replenishment, began in M4arch 1968 and were substantially
completed by September 1968.  IWith the timing of an IDA replenishment then
still uncertain, and in view of the desirability of starting work on the
second stage as early as possible in the 1969 construction season, the
Government requested that the proposed credit be converted to a Bank loan or
to a combined Bank loan and IDA credit, and final negotiations were conducted
on this basis.   Principal members of the Turkish delegation in the
preliminary discussions in 1967 were Mr. Zeki Ozyar, Director of Projects
and Construction, DSI - State Hydraulic Works, Mr. Huseyin Yegin, Assistant
General Director, Topraksu, Mr. Lufti Solakoglu, DSI, and Mr. Bedrettin Sarp,
Technical Adviser, Turkish Embassy.   For the negotiations in 1968 the
Turkish Delegation consisted of Mr. Zeki Toker, Economic Counselor,
Mr. Mehmet Akmansu, Financial Counselor, and Mr. Bedrettin Sarp, Technical
Adviser, all from the Turkish Embassy.    For the final negotiations the
Turkish Delegation consisted of Mr. Kemal Canturk, Secretary General of the
Treasury. Mr. Zeki Toker, Director General of the Treasury, Mr. Sabahattin
Sayin, Assistant Director General of DSI, and Mr. Naki Uner, Director
General of Topraksu.
6.        From 1962 until 1966 Turkey was considered an IDA country, but
since 1966 it has been regarded as able to service limited amounts borrowed
on more conventional terms.   Pending IDA replenishment the financing of
the Keban Transmission Line Project ($25 million - 568 TU) was approved in
October 1968 as a Bank loan, and other projects for Turkey in Fiscal Year
1969 are being prqposed for Bank loans.    For this project, however, it is
proposed to provide $12 million of IDA funds.



- 3 -
7.        The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Turkey as at January 31, 1969:
Loan or                                                          Amount (US$ million)
Credit                                                                         Undis-
Number    Year       Borrower                 Purpose            Bank   IDA    bursed
Six loans and three credits made between 1950 and 1964 -         60.7   11.5     -
all disbursed
38-TU    1963   Republic of Turkey    Seyhan Irrigation          -     20.0     2.7
59-TU    1964   Republic of Turkey    Second Cukurova Power      -     2h.0    10.6
75-TU    1965   Republic of Turkey    Industry - TS.YB           -     10.0      .1
h61-TU    1966   TSKB - Industrial     Industry - TSKB          10.0     -        .6
Development Bank of
Turkey
91-TU    1966   Republic of Turkey     Industry - TSKB           -     15.0     1.0
568-Tu    1968   Republic of Lurkey    Keban Transmission
Lines                    25.0     -      25.0
Total (less cancellations)                             95.7   80.5    40o0
of which has been repaid to Bank and others         39.9
Total now outstanding                                  55.8
Amount sold                          0.9
of which has been repaid          0.3               o.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                         55.2   80.5
Total undisbursed                                      25.6   1h4.    40.0
8.        Execution of most of the projects has been satisfactory.    Two
changes in the construction plans of the Second Cukurova Project were agreed
in 1966 and 1968, and the project is now scheduled for completion in 1971.
Progress with the on-farm development under the Seyhan L-rigation Project,
which had been disappointing until 1967, is now satisfactory. An improvement
in the administration for implementing the project and an increase in
agricultural credit for the project area have recently been agreed with the
Government.



- 4 -
9.        The following lending operations are under consideration for
this Fiscal Year:
(a) TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey) was reappraised
by IFC in August 1968.   A Bank loan of $25 million has just been negotiated
and is being submitted shortly for the Executive Directors' consideration.
(b) Kadincik II hydroelectric station for the Cukurova Electric
Company was appraised in December 1968 with a view to a Bank loan or IDA
credit of about $11.5 million.
PART II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
10.
LOAN
Borrower:             The Republic of Turkey.
Amount:               Various currencies equivalent to $12 million.
Purpose:              To assist in financing the irrigation, drainage
and on-farm development in Stage II of the Seyhan
Irrigation Project in the Adana plain.
Amortization:         In 30 years, including a 10 year period of grace,
through semi-annual installments beginning
June 1, 1979 and ending June 1, 1999.
Interest Rate:        6-1/2 per cent.
Commitment Charge:    3/h of 1 per cent.
CREDIT
Borrower:             The Republic of Turkey.
Amount:               Various currencies equivalent to $12 million.
Purpose:              To assist in financing the irrigation, drainage
and on-farm development in Stage II of the Seyhan
Irrigation Project in the Adana plain.
Amortization:         In 50 years including a 10 year period of grace,
through semi-annual installments of 1/2 of
1 per cent from June 1, 1979 through
December 1, 1988 and of 1-1/2 per cent from
June 1, 1989 through December 1, 2018.
Service Charge:       3/4 of 1 per cent per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding.



- 5 -
PART III. THE PROJECT
11.       An appraisal report entitled "Turkey - Seyhan Irrigation Project -
Stage III' (TO-61ha dated February 4, 1969) is attached.
Background
12.       The Adana plain has a typical Mediterranean climate with hot
summers, mild winters and a low average rainfall which falls mostly from
October to April.   The plain is well suited to irrigation with gradients
varying from steep in the upper parts to relatively flat in the middle and
lower sections.   The most important physical problem in developing
irrigation is the provision of drainage.   All the plain needs some drainage
but the need for drainage increases as the coast is approached.    However,
numerous studies and experience have sho-m that drainage can be provided at
a reasonable cost.
13.       Agriculture on the plain exhibits the contrasts to be expected in
an area which is changing from primitive to modern methods.    Some farms use
commercial fertilizers, tractors, plant protection methods and other up-to-
date practices, while others are still operated along traditional lines.
Cotton, cereals, rice, citrus fruits and vegetables are the most important
products of the area.
14.       The Turkish Govermnent proposes to develop the whole irrigable area
of 170,000 hectares of the plain as part of its second Five Year Plan of
economic development.   This is a large undertaking and in order to ensure
its success it was agreed for the first stage of the Seyhan project that the
work should follow a systematic program.    In line with that approach, Stage I
of the plan for the whole plain originally included the completion of the
irrigation wcrks and on-farm development on 53,000 hectares, the irrigation
works being later increased to 62,000 hectares.    Stage II provides an
irrigation and drainage system on 39,250 hectares and on-farm development
on these and on an additional 9,000 hectares.    Stage III, if found to be
economically justified, would complete the plan with the development of the
remaining 83,000 hectares.    This last stage covers the lowest lying parts
of the plain where the teclnical problems are the most difficult.   Work on
Stage I is now progressing satisfactorily after some initial difficulties.
The irrigation works have been virtually completed for about one year and
on-farm development is nearing a satisfactory completion.
15.       In addition to the construction of the main irrigation canals and
the drainage system, the on-farm development in both Stages I and II includes
the work on individual farms necessary to enable the farmers to take
advantage of the water.   This work consists of land levelling, the
installation of farm drains and irrigation ditches and, in some areas, soil
improvement.   This part of both projects is, of course, essential, since
without it no economic benefits in the form of increased agricultural
production wil1 be realized.



-6-
Cost of the Project
16.       The total cost of the project is estimated to be $63 million
equivalent of which $40 million would be used for the construction of the
main works and the remainder ($23 million equivalent) for on-farm development.
The foreign exchange requirements (including $2 million interest during
construction) are expected to amount to the proposed $214 million total of
the loan and the credit, based on the estimate that 40 per cent of the
contracts for irrigation works would be awarded to foreign firms.    No
financing of local costs, as in Stage I, is proposed for Stage II.
Execution of the Project
17.       The carrying out of the project will be the responsibility of the
Turkish Government.   A Central Coordinating Committee was established in
Ankara to guide and coordinate all engineering and agricultural activities
on Stage I.   In addition a senior official of the State Planning Organization
reporting directly to the Committee, would be appointed as Project Manager.
The Coordinator heads a committee comprising field representatives of the
various agencies and is responsible for coordination at the project level.
This organization structure would be maintained for Stage II as well.    The
construction and maintenance of the civil works will be the responsibility
of the Devlet Su Isleri (State Hydraulic Works), an agency within the Ministry
of Energy and NJatural Resources, which is responsible for all irrigation
projects in Turkey.   The design and the supervision of construction of the
civil works would be the responsibility of foreign consultants to be employed
by DSI.   Construction of the civil works would be performed by contractors
to be selected after international competitive bidding.    On-farm development
would be carried out by personnel of Topraksu (Directorate of Soil Conservaticn
and Farm Irrigation), an agency within the Ministry of Village Affairs, under
the supervision of foreign consultants.   I^ihile the work will be carried out
principally by Topraksu itself, it may hire private contractors for about
10 per cent of its work, and in a few instances the farmers themselves will
level their own land.   Topraksu also will continue to operate certain
demonstration farms and a research station.   EDtension services would be
provided by an extension organization set up for both stages of the Seyhan
Project, in association with new Department of Agricultural Credit for
Special Projects of the Agricultural Bank, and will continue to provide
advice and assistance to farmers concerning crop patterns and varieties,
irrigation methods, pest control etc.
18.       The Government has undertaken to prepare specific reccmmendations,
to be discussed with the Bank, regarding the amount of agricultural credit
to be made available through the Agricultural Bank for the use of farmers
in Stages I and II of the project over the next five years.    Pending this
action it is understood that the Agricultural Bank is presently prepared
to make available an additional TL 60 million, spread over the next five
years, to farmers in the project area participating in the extension program.



-7-
Economic Justification
19.       Turkey's Second Five-Year Plan gives a high priority to increasing
agricultural production both for export and to meet the demands of its rising
population.   The project would increase the production of cereals, fruit
and vegetables for the domestic market, wihile the increased cotton output
would help to meet the requirements of Turkey's growing textile industry and
to maintain exports.   The increase in cereal production, especially of high
yield Mexican wheat, will help to reduce Turkey's traditionally high wheat
imports.   The Bank is also examining related project proposals to implement
the Government's drive to promote exports of fruits, especially citrus,
vegetables, and processed foods originating largely in such irrigated
coastal farming areas as the Adana plain.   This project should contribute
directly to an increase of agricultural exports.   Allowing for the increase
in production costs, including imputed wages to family labor and annual costs
of operation and maintenance, the annual incremental net value of production
to the economy at full agricultural development in 1985 would be about
TL 133 million (US$14.8 million), yielding a rate of return of about
15 per cent.
PART IV. LEGAL IINSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
20.       The draft Loan Agreement (Seyhan Irrigation Project - Stage II)
between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, a Resolution approving the proposed loan, the draft Development
Credit Agreement (Seyhan Irrigation Project - Stage II) between the Republic
of Turkey and the Association, the Recommendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, and a Resolution approving the proposed development credit are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.    The agreements
incorporate the new General Conditions of the Bank and the Association
respectively.   Withdrawials from the Loan account may be made only after the
Credit has been exhausted except for withdrawals on account of interest and
other charges on the Loan, accrued before the Project is completed, which are
not subject to this limitation; cf. Section 2.03, paragraph (b), of the Loan
Agreement.   The Agreements contain a covenant providing for irrigation
charges (Section 5.10 of the Loan Agreement, Section 4.10 of the Credit
Agreement).
PART V. THE ECCNOMY
21.       The report of the 1968 economic mission to Turkey entitled "The
Economy of Turkey" (No. EMA-4) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.   It reappraises the country's economic situation in
the light of its porformance under the First Five-Year Plan (1963-67) and
the problems and prospects faced in the period of the Scccnd Five-Year Plan
(1968-72).



- 8 -
22.        Turkey is clearly in need of large amounts of foreign assistance
over the next few years if a serious interruption of economic development
is to be avoided. However, the economic report points out that the pro-
vision of foreign aid alone cmnot bring about a lasting solution. Although
economic progress has been substantial in recent years, Turkey seems to have
reached a juncture where major changes in basic policies are required to
bring about improvements of decisive importance for the longer term. In
these circumstances Turkey should continue for the next few years to receive
part of its aid on concessionary terms, including IDA credits. However,
part of Turkey's needs for external capital can prudently be provided on
conventional terms and I consider Turkey creditworthy for the proposed loan.
PART VI. COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMIENT
23.        I am satisfied that the proposed Bank Loan and IDA Credit comply
respectively with the requirements of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and the Association.
PART VII. RECONUENDATION
24.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan and Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: J. Burke Knapp
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
February 12, 1969



