R'ESTRICTED
Report No.   TO-614a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TURKEY
SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE II
February 4, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                                    Turkish Lire (TL) 9.0
TL1                           =            US$0.11
TL 1 million                               US$3.111,11
WEIHTS AND MEA1SURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)                             2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                           0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)                   0 o.386 square miles
1 meter (m)                                39.37 inches
1 square meter (m2)                        10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)                         35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (Im3)  =           810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)             =            0.039 inches
1 liter (1)                                0.219 Imperial gallon
DSI - State Hydraulic Works, an agency of the Ministry of
Eiergy and Natural Resources
TOPRAKSU - An agency of the Ministry of Village Affairs
TAHAL/ECI -   Consultants, a consortium of TAHAL Ltd. of Tel Aviv,
Israel and ECI of Denver, Colorado, U.S.A.



TURKEY
SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE II
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY    eecee.e.eoe.ec .       ** . ..     0cc. .  e.  ee.            i-ii
I,        INTRODUCTION o.eeamoeca.ecgeeeeoec*ee meOe                       1
II.       BACKGROUND *.**        ... .*.... .. ...... *ce.*o                 1
III.      THE PROJECT AREA ....e....... e*.ce .. -.                          2
General .e.c.oc..e.eoecc.eceeeea               ec             2
Climate .e...                ....                             3
Soils, Topography and Drainage           ..............       3
Farm Size and Land Tenure ...................
Agricultural Production     4...............                  h
Transportation and Marketing ................
IV.       THE PROJECT .ooe.o...eoo*eeo.e.eeeeooeeaeeoe
Irrigation and Drainage ..o..e..ee               ec           6
Operation and Maintenance Facilities ecaae                    6
On-farm Development m...        .    .e.e     ......          6
Water Supply ..e..e,,cc..*0eeee      ooe e.o..    e           7
Status of Ehgineering ...e        ceeee.eooceocc              7
Cost Estimates em.e,eae.cceceeeeceeeemee                      8
Financing e...... e..omcc..oc.. oeces              e          9
Procurement    e.ee.c.e.ecmeee.ec,     oooeoa   o            10
V.         ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...eemme ce          -J--           11
Irrigation and Drainage Works ee          e*  .eec           11
Operation and Maintenance ...ecece .me                       11
On-farm Development ..        ....ecccce e        cam        11
Technical Assistance, Services and Credit
to Farmers      ....... .             a m       c          12
Auditing of Accounts       .....mec..e.c.                ..... 13
Project Coordination ccccccccccce.e.....eoc.c                13
VI.        AGRICULTURAL DEVELOP]ENT                                          14
VII.      FINANCIAL RESULTS                       ...ec.e...e.e.ecee .ec    15
Operation and Maintenance Costs cecececece                   15
Water-Charges      .... ccc. ee                              16
Benefits to Farmers e.ceeccccccccecc.eee                    16
cont'd/..



Table of Contents
- page 2 -
Page No.
VIII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....................      16
It.      CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENATIONS .°.....*660*00        17
ANNEES
1.   Soils
2.   Construction Schedule
3.   Description of Works
4.   Water Supply, Requirements and Quality
5.   Consultant Services
6.   Cost Estimates
7.   Equipment List
8.   Equipment Requirements for Civil Wiorks
9.   Present Cropping Pattern
10.   Projected Future Cropping Pattern
11.   Marketing
12.   Organization Chart
13.  WIater Charges
14.   Economic Rate of Return
Seyhan Irrigation Project.
This report was prepared by M4essrs. Mitchell, Douglass, Golan
and Bhatia, and is based on findings of a mission which visited Turkey
in June, 1967, and on a supervision and updating appraisal mission
which visited Turkey in Play, 1968, consisting of Messrs. Golan and
Snelson (FAO).



TURKEY
SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE II
SUAMARY
i.        The Government of Turkey has requested joint Bank/IDA financing
to assist in the development of Stage II of the Seyhan Irrigation Project
which would be the continuation of Stage I.   In 1963, an IDA Credit of
US$20 million was made to the Government of Turkey for Stage I compris-
ing irrigation and drainage development of 62,000 ha and, within this
area, on-farm development of 53,000 ha.   After a slow start, Stage I is
nearing a satisfactory completion.
ii.       Stage II works would provide an irrigation and drainage system
on 39,,250 ha.  On-farm development work would be carried out on this
area, as well as on an additional 9,000 ha, for which the distribution
system is being constructed as part of Stage I.   Upon completion, the
project would provide a reliable water supply and drainage system to an
area now dependent upon insufficient rainfall.
iii.      The estimated expenditure necessary to implement the project
(Stage II) is TL 567 million (US$63 million equivalent), of which US$24
million, including US$2 million for interest during construction, would
be in foreign exchange.   The Bank loan of US$12 million, including
US$2 million for interest and the IDA credit of US$12 million, about 38%
of the total estimated cost, would cover the foreign exchange cost and
would be used to finance payments to contractors for irrigation and
drainage works, on-farm development ivorks, purchase of equipment,
machinery and supplies, foreign consulting services and interest on the
Bank loan during the construction period.
iv.       The State Hydraulic Works, DSI, an agency within the Ministry
of Energy and Natural Resources, would be responsible for the construction
and maintenance of the civil works portion of the project.   The design
and the supervision of construction of the civil works would be the
responsibility of foreign consultants to be employed by DSI.   Construction
of the civil works would be performed by contractors to be selected after
international competitive bidding.   On-farm development would be carried
out by personnel of TOPRAKSU, an agency of the Ministry of Village Affairs,
under the supervision of foreign consultants.   Extension services would
be provided by an extension organization set up for both stages of the
Seyhan Project and agricultural credit would be extended by the
Agricultural Bank.
v.        A Central Coordinating Committee was established in Ankara to
guide and coordinate all engineering and agricultural activities on Stage I.
In addition, a senior official of the State Planning Organization, report-
ing directly to the Committee, would be appointed as Project Coordinator.



- ii -
The Coordinator heads a Committee comprising the field representatives
of the various agencies and is responsible for coordination at the
project level.   This organization structure would be maintained for
Stage II.
vi.       DSI would levy irrigation charges sufficient to recover from
farmers annual operation and maintenance costs and as much of the
capital invested in the project as would be feasible without impairing
the farmer's incentives,,
vii.      Allowing for the increase in production costs, including imputed
wages to family labor, and annual costs of operation and maintenance, the
annual incremental net value of production to the economy at full
agricultural development in 1985 would be about TL 133 million (US$14.8
million), yielding a rate of return of about 15%.
viii.     The project is technically sound and economically advantageous
to Turkey, and is suitable for a Bank loan/IDA credit of US$24 million.
The term of the Bank loan will be 30 years with a grace period of ten
years.   The term of the IDA credit will be 50 years with a grace period
of ten years.



TURKEY
SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE II
I. fBTRCDUCTION
1.01      The Government of Turkey has requested joint Bank/IDlA financing
to assist in the development of Stage II of the Government's plan for
irrigation and drainage development of the Adana Plain.   Stage I,
financed by an IDA Credit (No. 38-TU) of US$20 million in 1963, is being
satisfactorily completed.
1.02      This report is based on material and reports prepared by the
Government and its consultants (a consortium of TAIiAL Ltd. of Tel Aviv,
Israel, and ECI of Denver, Colorado, U.S.A.) and on findings of an
appraisal mission which visited Turkey in June 1967.   Members of the
mission were Messrs. D.S. Mitchell, J.C. Douglass, A. Golan and S.K.
Bhatia.   A supervision and updating appraisal mission for the two stages
of the Seyhan Project visited Turkey in M4ay, 1968, consisting of Messrs.
A. Golan and K.E. Snelson (FAQ).
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The Adana Plain, comprising about 220,000 ha, is located in
southern Turkey.   The lower end of the plain borders the Mediterranean
Sea,   The area is bounded on the west by the Berdan River and on the
east by the Ceyhan River.   The Seyhan River, the source of the water
supply for the area, bisects the plain.   Adana, the fourth largest city
in Turkey, is located in the north central portion of the plain (see Map).
2.02      The development of the plain is being undertaken as a multi-
purpose project serving flood control, pover and irrigation purposes.
The flood control levees were completed along each of the rivers in 1953.
An earth-fill dam, a powerhouse with two 18,000 kw units and about 80 km
of transmission lines were completed and placed in operation in May, 1956.
The foreign exchange cost of this development was financed by Bank loan
63-TU, amounting to US$22.8 million.   A third unit of 18,000 kw was
installed in 1963.   The foreign exchange cost of this unit was financed
by IDA credit 34-TU amounting to US$1.7 million.
2.03      Irrigation development on the plain was initiated in the 19h0's
when the diversion dam on the Seyhan River, the right and left bank main
canals and a partial distribution system for about 16,5OO ha were
completed.   The Seyhan Reservoir provides a firm water supply for
irrigation of about 170,000 ha and for power generation.



_2-_
2.Q4      As a part of the work under Bank loan 63-TU, the Turkish
Government engaged the firm Tippetts, Abbett, McCarthy and Stratton
(TANS) to review the technical problems in the plain and to prepare
a plan of development for irrigation and drainage.   Upon completion of
this plan, in October 1961, the Bank was requested to consider financing
the first stage irrigation development.   An IDA Credit of US$20 million
(38-TU) was granted for this purpose in May 1963.   This Credit provided
partial financing for construction of irrigation and drainage works on
about 62,000 ha and for on-farm development of 53,000 ha.   After a slow
start, Stage I is nearing a satisfactory completion.   The irrigation
and drainage works were completed in December 1968 and the on-farm
development is expected to be completed in 1972.
2.05      The following changes were made in Stage I from the project
described in Report TO-348b, dated Nay 21, 1963:
(a) establishment of an administrative organization in
Ankara and in the field to improve coordination between
agencies involved in the project;
(b) attribution of full responsibility for the execution of
on-farm development to TOPRAKSU.   The portion of the
credit earmarked for the Agricultural Bank to help
finance loans to farmers for on-farm work was re-allocated
to finance the work carried out by TOPRAKSU:
(c) employment of consultants by TCPRAKSU whose cost would
be financed under the credit; and
(d) enlargement of the area from 53,000 ha to 62,000 ha 2/
to provide irrigation and drainage service, but not
on-farm development.   These changes in organization
and responsibility have contributed to the progress of
work on Stage I.
III, THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      As proposed by the Government, the entire plan for irrigation
and drainage development in the Adana Plain would cover an irrigable area
of some 170,000 ha,   Development has been scheduled in three stages,
the first now nearing completion, the second, which is the subject of this
report, and the third, which consists mostly of poor lands involving high
development costs, to be considered at some future time against alternative
irrigation projects elsewhere in Turkey.
1/  The increase in area was 9,800 ha gross.   In this report, the net
irrigable area of 9,000 ha is used.



-3-
3.02      The agriculture of the area is characterized by the extreme
contrasts to be found in an area undergoing a change from rudimentary
agricultural methods to modern ones.   Tractors and other farm equip-
ment are common, while much manual labor and many outmoded practices
are still used.   On well-operated farms having access to irrigation,
commercial fertilizers, plant protection measures and other up-to-date
farming practices are applied.   Very little fertilizer is used for
crops grown under dry farming.
3.03      Much of the trade and industry of the region is based on
agriculture.   The Adana Plain is one of the main cotton producing areas
in Turkey, and the cotton processing and textile industries are of great
importance to its economy.   Although cotton is the dominant crop in
the region, wheat, citrus, vegetables and melon production are also
important sources of income and employment,
Climate
3 .4      The climate is MIediterranean.  The summers are hot, with
average monthly temperatures of 200C (680 F) to 280C (820F), from May
through October.   The winters are mild, with average monthly temperatures
of about 900  (480F) to 130C (550F) from December through MIarch.  Frosts
are rare and have not prevented citrus production, although the lowest
recorded temperature is -7.10C (190F).   However, these cold periods are
generally brief.   The average amount of bright sunshine is about five
hours per day for December and January and about six hours per day during
February.
3.05      The average annual rainfall is about 600 mm (24 inches) at Adana,
based on the records of the period 1927-1959, and varies greatly from
year to year.   Most of the rain falls during the winter and in the summer
precipitation is scanty, averaging from 5 to 25 mm a month from April
through October.   In some years, moderate rainfall starts as early as
September and sometimes extends into May.
Soils, Topography and Drainage
3.06      Land classification and soil surveys show that most of the soils
are wvell suited to irrigation development with a net irrigable area in the
plain of about 170,000 ha.   Stage II includes the majority of the best
lands in the plain.   With minor exceptions, the soils are of light to
medium texture wzith good topographic and drainage characteristics.  A
more detailed description of the soils is given in Annex 1.
3.07      Topography of Stage II lands is well suited to irrigation.
Gradients vary from steep in the upper parts of the area to relatively
flat in the middle and lower sections,.  Slight to moderate undulations
occur throughout, thus requiring some degree of land planing or leveling
on all land.



4
3.08      Drainage is an important physical factor in developing the
plain for irrigation.   However, in Stage II, because of the better
soils, sub-surface drainage is a much less critical factor than it was
for Stage I or will be in Stage III.   Most lands in Stage II would
require a surface drainage system to remove excess water during the
rairy season.
3.09      The numerous studies and experiments conducted on the drainage
of the plain show that the necessary drainage required in Stage II can
be provided at a reasonable cost.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.10      The average farm size in the area is ten hectares, although
farms of larger size account for about 63% of the cultivated area and most
of the smaller holdings are combined into larger operating blocks.
Efforts to consolidate small holdings have not been successful to date
and the process of land fragmentation through inheritance is expected to
continue for some time.   The likelihood of further fragmentation of small
holdings has been taken into account in the economic benefits analysis by
using conservative projections of yields and of the area likely to be
brought under double cropping.
3.11      A majority of the farm land is cultivated either by owners
themselves or by hired managers.   Tenant farming is rare and is found
almost exclusively on land growing rice.
Agricultural Production
3.12      Roughly 46,0oo ha, or about 95% of the project lands, are now
under dry farming, with cotton accounting for about 85% of the dry farmed
area.   Although the Adana Plain is well suited to cotton production,
yields in the region are very low, averaging about 600 kg seed cotton per
hectare.   The major reasons for the low yields are inadequate moisture
in late spring and summer, the continuous growing of cotton year after
year, insufficient use of fertilizer and outmoded methods of production.
Cereals and watermelon are the next most important crops, occupying
respectively eleven and four per cent of the dry farmed area.   On
irrigated lands, the cropping pattern is essentially the same as under
dry farming, with cotton predominating.   Rice, citrus and vegetables
are also grown under irrigation,
Transportation and Marketing
3.13      The Adana Plain has excellent air, sea and ground transporta-
tion connections with the rest of the country.   A mainline railroad and
highway run through the northern and northwestern part of the project.
Adana has a good daily air service to Ankara and Istanbul.   There are
two harbors, Iskenderun and Mersin, in the vicinity of the project.



-5-
3.14      There are several paved highways in the project area in
addition to the levees along the three principal rivers which serve as
roads and are connected to the main highways.   Farmers also have use
of the project's operation and maintenance roads.   However, many of
the feeder roads are not surfaced and are practically unusable for
transportation in the winter.   To provide the project with an adequate
transportation network during the rainy season, existing feeder roads
would be converted into all-weather roads and new ones constructed.
About 75% of the road construction requirement uould be carried out
under the project and the balance by appropriate Government agencies.
3.15      The local textile industry and export outlets provide a market
for all the cotton that is presently produced in the Adana Plaino   Most
of the cereals and a sizeable portion of the vegetables and fruits now
produced in the area are consumed locally.  IHowever, there are organized
wholesale markets for fruits and vegetables in Adana, Tarsus and Mersin,
and some fruits and vegetables handled in these markets are hauled to
Ankara and Istanbul.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.ol      The project proposed for joint Bank/IDA financing is Stage II
in the progressive development of the Adana plain, and includes:
(a) the construction of anrirrigation and drainage system on
about 39,250 ha and on-farm development on about 48,250
ha, including about 9,000 ha provided with irrigation
and drainage facilities in Stage I;
(b) the construction of a concrete pipe factory;
(c) the building of operation and maintenance facilities;
(d) the procurement of equipment, materials and supplies;
(e)  the undertaking of a study on wJater charges;
(f) the implementation of an extension services program; and
(g) the agricultural training overseas of personnel of the
BorrowJer.
To assist in implementing the project, a foreign engineering consulting
firm with expertise in construction, operation and maintenance, water
and land development and extension services, would be engaged.   The
irrigation and drainage works would be completed within five years and
the on-farm development within six years (see Annex 2).   Upon completion
of the wiorks, about 100,000 ha in Stages I and II, comprising the better
and least costly lands to develop in the Adana Plain, would be irrigated.



_6_
4.02      Project lands lie on two plains separated by the Seyhan River.
Those lying west of the river are on the Tarsus Plain and are designated
as TP areas.   Those east of the river lie on the Yuregir Plain and are
prefixed YP.
Proposed Works
4.03      Irrigation and Drainage: All areas in Stage II would be
served by gravity flow.   Eccept for the first 11 km of the TS-1 canal
serving the 2 TP area, the main canals would be unlined.   The distribu-
tion system would consist of concrete pipe in the higher elevations of
the 2TP and 5YP areas.   Canalettesl/ as now adopted for Stage I would
be used to serve the balance of the Stage II area.   A surface drainage
system would be constructed throughout the project area to remove
excess water during the rainy season.   A new outlet would be constructed
through the right abutment of the emergency spillway at Seyhan Reservoir
for Canal TS-1.   The existing irrigation outlet constructed at the left
abutment wiould be modified to supply Canal YS-9.  A detailed description
of the works is presented in Annex 3 (also see Nap).
4.04      Concrete pipe, rather than canalettes, wiould be used on the
steeper slopes and for large discharges.   There is, however, no factory
at present in Adana or in the vicinity with equipment suitable for
making concrete pipe for irrigation use.   To assure availability of
proper pipe for project use, the State Hydraulic Works, DSI, an agency
of the Ninistry of Energy and Natural Resources, with responsibility
for irrigation and drainage development in Turkey, would construct and
operate a pipe factory in the area.   The necessary equipment for pipe
manufacturing would be purchased under international competitive bidding
and financed from proceeds of the loan and/or credit.
4.05      Operation and Maintenance Facilities:  Additional facilities
would be required for operation and maintenance of Stage II,   The
existing office at Yenice would be enlarged and three new area operation
offices and 38 canal rider houses would also be constructed so that each
canal rider would handle a unit of about 1,000 ha.
4.o6      On-Farm Development:  The on-farm development program would be
carried out on 4d,250 ha.   This area consists of 9,000 ha in lTP 6 KS
in wrhich the distribution system is being constructed under Stage I and
39,250 ha iwhich corresponds to the area included in the Stage II construc-
tion program.   On-farm development works would consist of land leveling
over the entire area, installation of tile drainage on about 20,900 ha,
excavation of some 950 km of surface drains, and construction of 240 km
of feeder roads.   Details of the program are given in Annex 3.
1/ An eliptical reinforced concrete section open at the top, which is
prefabiicated at a factory and field assembled on precast concrete
saddles.



- 7 -
4.07      The basic and essential roads to be constructed by TOPRAKSU
as part of the on-farm development works represent about 75% of the roads
which may eventually be required.   The balance would be constructed by
appropriate Government agencies as part of their annual construction
program.   Assurances have been obtained from the Government that road
construction requirements, not included as part of the project, would be
carried out during the construction period.
Water Supply
4.08      Irrigation water for Stage II would come from the Seyhan River
regulated by storage in Seyhan Reservoir.   With the presently installed
capacity in the power plant, there is little possibility of conflict
between the use of water for irrigation and power as the natural flow
plus storage can supply water for irrigation of 170,000 ha in the Adana
Plain, for dependable prime energy of 127 million kwh per year and
secondary energy varying between 92 and 240 million kwh per year.   Since
Stages I and II of Seyhan Irrigation Project would develop only 100,000 ha,
the water supply is more than adequate to meet irrigation requirements and
the present power demands.
4.09      Water requirements have been computed on the same basis for
individual crops as used for Stage I.   Water quality for Stage II will
be identical to that for Stage I and is well suited for irrigation use.
Water supply, requirements and quality are discussed further in Annex 4I.
Status of Engineering
4.10      The feasibility report for the project was prepared by the
consortium TAHAL-SCI Consulting Engineers, the consultants to DSI and
TOPRAKSU.   Detailed designs were prepared for about 40% of the main
canals and drains and were used to determine cost estimates.   Unit bid
prices experienced in lateral construction on Stage I were applied to
scaled quantities.   The consortium would be employed by DSI to prepare
the necessary final designs and detailed drawings for Stage II works.
The consultants would also supervise construction done by contract and
work done by DSI's force account through 1973 and thereafter as necessary.
4.11      Preliminary plans for on-farm development were prepared by
TOPRAKSU with the assistance of the consultants.   DSI unit prices for
similar work on other projects and actual costs experienced on Stage I
work were used to estimate costs.   Equipment requirements for the program
were prepared by the consultants on the basis of performance on Stage I
and are considered reasonable.   TOPRAKSU would continue to employ
consultants, comprising as a minimum a chief engineer, an irrigation and
drainage engineer and a machinery specialist, to assist in the preparation
of final details for the on-farm development program and to supervise the
work carried out by TOPRAKSU's personnel.



-8_
4X12      The engineering and on-farm development plans are sound, and
the arrangements for the employment of consultants satisfactory.   A
list of consultant services to be used on the project is shown in
Annex 5.   Assurances have been obtained from the Government that
consultants would be employed as outlined above and that the Bank and
the Association would be given an opportunity to approve their terms of
reference.
Cost Estimates
4.13      The cost estimates for the irrigation and drainage works are
based upon detailed designs prepared by the consultants, except for the
area lying below the west main canal (2YP) and part of the area directly
above the north main canal (3TP) for which preliminary designs only are
available.   Adequate provision for engineering, administration and
consulting services have been added to the cost estimates.   A 15%
contingency allowance was added for equipment and a 20% contingency
allowance for civil works against possible over-runs of quantities.
As was the case on Stage I, contracts would be awarded without an
escalation clause, and therefore no contingencies were added for escala-
tion of cost.   On-farm development cost estimates were prepared by the
consultants on the basis of similar work performed on Stage I and DSI
unit prices for similar work on other projects.   In the absence of
detailed quantity estimates for on-farm development works in Stage II,
a contingency of 20% has been allowed which is in accordance with
experience on Stage I.   All equipment and machinery unit costs are
based on recent price quotations received for similar items on Stage I.
The cost estimates are reasonable.   The estimated expenditure required
to implement the project is US$63 million.   Details are given in
Annex 6 and are summarized below:
Cost Estimates
TL (millions)         Us$ (millions)
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total
DSI
Irrigation and Drainage. Works 245.7    90.0   335.7   27.3    10.0    37.3
Equipment and Supplies           -      24.3    24.3     -      2.7     2.7
Subtotal                 245.7   114.3   360.0   27.3    12.7    40.0
TOPRAKSU
On-farm Development Wiorks      93.6    12.6   106.2   10.4     1.4    11.8
Equipment and Machinery           -     63.o    63.o     -      7eO     7eO
Subtotal                  93.6    75.6   169.2   10.4     8.4    18.8
CONSULTANTS                     11.7     8.1    19e8    1.3      *9     2.2
INTEREST during CONSTRUCTIONY     -     18.0    18.0     -      2.0     2.0
TOTAL                    351.0   216.0   567.0   39.0    24.0    63.0
1/ Simple interest on the Bank loan @ 6.5%.



Financing
4.14      The Bank loan and IDA credit wiould be used to finance the
foreign exchange cost of the irrigation and drainage works (US$10 miljlion),
equipment and supplies to be purchased by DSI (Us$207 million), on-farm
development works (US$1.4 million), equipment and machinery to be
purchased by TOPRAKSU (US$7.0 million), foreign consulting services
(US$ .9 million) and interest on the Bank loan during the construction
period (US$2 million).   A list of the equipment, machinery and supplies
to be purchased by DSI and TOPRAKSU for the project and their cost is
presented in Annex 7.
4.15      The proposed loan/credit would be US$24 million (TL216 million)
which is approximately 38% of the total cost, including interest during
construction which is estimated to be completed by the end of 1974.  The
expenditure schedule, including disbursement of the proposed Bank loan/
IDA credit would be as folloT4s (millions US$):
Calendar Year    1969   1970   1971   1972   1973  1974   1975   Total
Government
contribution     3.3    8.6    9.7    8.4    5.5   3.0    0.5    39.0
IDA Credit        1.6    8.6    1.8     -     -_     -      -     12.0
IBRD Loan          -      -     4.2   3.3     2.5   2.0     -     12e0
Total         4.9   17.2   15.7   11.7    8.0    5.0    0.5   63,0
4.16      Withdrawals from the Bank loan account to defray the cost of
anjy material, equipment, supplies, civil works, on-farm development,
consultantst services and training outside Turkey, of personnel of the
Borrower, shall be made only after the proceeds of the IDA credit shall
have been fully withdrawn or committed.
4.17      For civil works contracts awarded to local contractors and for
on-farm development works, the loan would be disbursed on a percentage
basis, representing the estimated foreign exchange component of such works.
The loan would also be disbursed against foreign exchange payments for
civil works contracts awarded to non-Turkish contractors as well as for
equipment, materials and supplies and consultants' services procured from
outside Turkey, together urith the overseas agricultural training of
personnel of the Borrower.   In the event that equipment, materials and
supplies, fabricated in Turkey from imported components, are procured,
the equivalent of 7Q% of the invoiced price less all custom duties and
other taxes and charges on importation would be disbursed; the equivalent
of 70% of the invoiced price of any other imported equipment, materials
and supplies procured for the project in Turkey would also be disbursed.



- 10 -
Procurement
4.18      Construction of the new headworks at the dam site, which are
too small for international bidding, would be performed with DSI's
force account.   All other irrigation and drainage works would be done
by contracts let after international competitive bidding.   The Govern-
ment agrees that contracts for these works would be subject to inter-
national competitive bidding in units or groups of units large enough
to interest international construction firms and that the Bank and the
Association would be given an opportunity to review the proposed awards,
The contract for the construction of the operation and maintenance
facilities which is not large enough to attract foreign interest would
be awarded after local competitive bidding.   Equipment and machinery for
the on-farm development work would be procured under international
competitive bidding; however, about 10% of the on-farm development work
would be performed by local contractors after competitive bidding, and
the balance would be performed as force account work by TOPRAKSU.
4.19      Contractorls performance on Stage I was often handicapped by
the lack of heavy equipment due to import restrictions.   To ensure the
work of the best quality on Stage II, local contractors should have
adequate heavy construction equipment to permit them to perform the work
in the most efficient manner.   A list representing an approximation of
the number of pieces of heavy equipment likely to be needed by local
contractors for each area is presented in Annex 8.   In the cases where
contracts are awarded to international contractors, they would be
permitted to bring the necessary heavy equipment into the country and to
re-export it after completion of the work.
4.20      Imported equipment, machinery and supplies for the project
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
In the past, the import of machinery and equipment by TOPRAKSU has been
subject to import licensing and local assembly regulations which have
caused delays in the purchase of equipment for the project.   To
facilitate the purchase of equipment by TOPRAKSU, the Government has
agreed to ensure the prompt issuance of import licenses or exemption
from import restrictions for all equipment and spare parts to be used on
the project, including contractors' equipment, where required as outlined
above.



V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEENT
Irrigation and Drainage Works
5.ol      DSI would have responsibility for planning, design, construc-
tion and operation and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage works.
It would also be responsible for collecting water charges.   A foreign
engineering consulting firm would be employed to assist DSI in all
phases of the project.   The consultants would supervise all contract
works and construction by DSI's force account and would certify with-
drawal applications from the loan and credit accounts.
5.02      DSI has agreed that potential bidders for civil works would be
prequalified by a special board to be set up for this purpose by the
agency.   A list of prequalified bidders, together with the recommenda-
tions and comments of the consultants, would be submitted to the Bank and
the Association for approval.
Operation and Maintenance
5.03      The operation and maintenance organization established by DSI
for the irrigation and drainage works on Stage I, would be expanded to
serve Stage II and the services of the operation and maintenance foreign
adviser, presently assisting DSI on Stage I, would be retained for the
initial four years of Stage II.   Overall responsibility would be
exercised by the Regional Office in Adana.   Operation and maintenance
services for project areas on the Tarsus and Yuregir Plain would be
provided, respectively, from headquarters located in Yenice and Mihmander.
On-farm Development
5.o4      TOPRAKSU has overall responsibility for on-farm development
works in Turkey,   In the early phases of Stage I, the agency was
responsible for the preparation of on-farm development plans, but these
were to be executed by farmers with financing provided by the
Agricultural Bank.   This arrangement proved to be ineffective and
cumbersome.   TOPRAKSU was, therefore, given full responsibility for
execution of this work which was financed as a project cost (see para.2.o5).
TOPRAKSU would continue to perform the majority of the work by force
account on Stage II as it has on Stage I.   The agency, which is staffed
with competent personnel, has gained valuable experience on Stage I and
would be able to implement the works successfully.   A group of at least
three foreign consultants, headed by a chief engineer, would assist
TOPRAKSU in the preparation of on-farm development plans, supervise the
execution of -work and certify withdrawal applications from the loan and
credit accounts.



- 12 -
Technical Assistance, Services and Credit to Farmers
5.05      TOPRAKSU and the Extension Service are the major agencies
responsible for providing technical assistance and services to farmers
in the project area.   In addition, the Agricultural Bank and research
institutes in Adana also provide technical services.
5.06      The Extension Service is the agency mainly responsible for
educating the farmers in modern and improved methods of cultivation
(irrigation methods, crop varieties, pest control, etc.) in the project
area.   In addition, the Ectension Service is responsible for inducing
the required change in the cropping pattern by the introduction of alfalfa
and other legumes and winter crops on suitable land. In the early phases
of Stage I, extension services in the project area were not effective as a
result of inadequate equipment and personnel and, perhaps even more
important, the lack of any real coordination of field work.   To alleviate
this situation, an emergency extension services program was introduced in
May 1967.   The program established an extension organization for the
Seyhan Project Stage I, headed by a director and assisted during the
initial two years by a foreign cotton specialist.   The organization is
under the supervision of a directorate comprising the regional directors
of all the agencies engaged in agricultural activities in the region.
Under the emergency program, extension services are provided by TOPRAKSU's
irrigation foremen, backed up by experts from the Ministry of Agriculture,
Ectension Service, Plant Protection and Cotton Research Institutes.
Based on the evaluation of this emergency program during the 1967 irriga-
tion season, the Five-Year Extension Program is being prepared and would
be implemented on both Stages I and II.
5.07      There are several research institutions in the project area and
in the immediate vicinity which provide the necessary research services.
The Tarsus Irrigation Research Institute conducts research covering amounts
and methods of water application, methods for reclaiming waterlogged and
saline soils, adaptability of various crops and fertilizer requirements.
The Cotton Research Institute has been working on increasing the yields
of cotton and other principal crops.   The Plant Protection Institute
carries on research on plant diseases and does extension work on plant
protection.   The foreign exchange requirements for additional equipment
needed for research activities are included in the loan.
5.08      The Agricultural Bank, an autonomous Government agency under
the Ministry of Commerce, is the major institutional source of credit to
farmers and farmers' cooperative societies in Turkey.   Three branches of
the Bank located in Adana, Tarsus and MIersin serve the project area.
Credit operations are limited mostly to short-term production loans to
farmers, made either directly or through credit cooperative societies.
These loans presently amount to about TL 27 million annually in Stages I
and II of the project.   In addition to production loans, medium and long
term development loans totalling some TL 4 million are granted annually
to farmers primarily for the purchase of agricultural equipment and the
establishment of orchards.   Aside from the Agricultural Bank, various
other credit sources such as cotton gins, large farmers, merchants and



- 13 -
commercial banks are also active in the area.   There are no reliable
estimates of the volume of credit extended through these sources,
although it is believed to be substantial and often involving extremely
high interest rates.
5.o9      The Government has undertaken to prepare specific recommenda-
tions, to be discussed with the Bank and the Association, regarding the
amount of agricultural credit to be made available to the Agricultural
Bank for use in Stages I and II of the project over the next five years.
While the actual amount of funds to be provided would have to be kept
flexible and should be reviewed from time to time, it is estimated that
annual production loans and medium and long term development loans granted
should both increase by about 20% annually to reach, by 1973, about
TL 63 million and TL 10 million, respectively.   The balance of annual
credit requirements estimated at TL 140 million for production loans and
TL 30 million for medium and long term development loans would continue
to be provided through sources other than the Agricultural Bank.
Auditing of Accounts
5.1o      The agencies involved in the project maintain separate accounts
for the project.   Annual audits are made by the Auditor General of each
agency and these audits wfould be submitted to the Bank and the Association.
Auditing procedures are satisfactory and the existing system would be
adopted for Stage II,
Project Coordination
5.11      In the early phases of Stage I, there was no close coordination
between the agencies responsible for executing the project.   To ensure
better coordination, a Central Coordinating Committee for the Seyhan
Project iwas established in Ankara in mid-1966, to guide and coordinate
all engineering and agricultural activities in Stage I.   Members of the
Committee are: the Chief Coordinator of the State Planning Organization;
the General Directors of DSI and TOPRAKSU; and representatives of the
Agricultural Bank and of the Extension Service of the Ministry of
Agriculture.   In addition, a senior official of the State Planning
Organization, reporting directly to the Central Coordinating Committee,
would be appointed as Project Coordinator,   The Coordinator heads a
committee comprising the field representatives of the agencies engaged in
the project.   He coordinates their activities at the project level and
serves as a liaison between them.   This organization structure, a chart
of which is shown in Annex 12, would continue to function for Stage II.
5.12      To ensure effective coordination, meetings of the Central
Committee in Ankara are held at least twice a year writh the Project
Coordinator participating.   The local coordinating committee in Adana,
with the top representatives of the four agencies present, meets at least
quarterly, with additional meetings being held during the construction
season or at other times as needed.



VI. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMNT
6.oi      The present cropping pattern in the area (see Annex 9) is
expected to be gradually transformed into a more intensive pattern of
summer as well as winter cropping.   Although lands in the area are
particularly well suited for the production of high value cash crops,
including citrus and other fruits, farmers are expected to be slow in
diversifying their crops in view of the established pattern of cotton
production.   It was, therefore, assumed that at full agricultural
development in 1985, cotton would still be planted on about 48% of the
area, compared with 81% at present.   Although the area planted to
cotton would be reduced, output would more than double during the same
period.   The estimated growth rate of cotton production on the project
between 1966 and 1985 is 4.1% per annum.   Unlike cotton, the areas
under fruit and vegetables would increase.   Details of the expected
cropping pattern, including yields and price projections, are presented
in Annex 10.   This cropping pattern would be further refined as part
of the Five-Year Ectension Program (see para. 5.06).
6.o2      Although most of the area is suitable for double cropping even
without irrigation, there is practically no double cropping at present.
This is primarily due to the absence of an adequate drainage system,
proper land leveling, all-weather roads and effective extension services.
Under the project, these deficiencies would be removed, and at least   -
20,000 ha are expected to be double cropped by 1985.   With the improve-
ment of marketing arrangements and the expansion of agricultural credit
in the region, the area actually to be double cropped would probably
exceed the projected figure used above.   The largest portion of the
double cropped area, roughly twio-thirds, would be occupied by dry beans,
while winter vegetables, including cabbage, melons and watermelons,
would be grown on the balance.
6.03      At full agricultural development, some three-fourths of the
net value of production in the project area would be derived from cotton,
citrus and vegetables.   Domestic and export marketing prospects for
these crops are discussed below.   Further details are given in Annex ll.
6.04      Cotton production in Turkey is projected to be around 1.85
million balesl/in 1985, an increase of about 23% over the 1965/66 level.
Of this total, approximately 160,000 bales, or nine per cent, would be
produced on Stages I and II of the project.   Roughly one-half of the
total national production is expected to be exported with a similar
pattern developing in the project area.   With an active demand on the
world market for the longer staples, Turkey should find no difficulty in
exporting half of its cotton production as it is already producing
medium long staples and the staple length is expected to improve further
as a result of irrigation and better seed varieties.   The remaining
production of cotton in Turkey, as well as the project area, would be
consumed locally.  IWith rising per capita income and a rapidly growing
population, domestic cotton consumption is expected to increase considerably
over the present level, as reflected in plans by the domestic textile
industry to expand its spinning capacity by at least 15% by 1970, and the
additional cotton production would be easily marketed.
1/ 480 pounds net.



6.05      Citrus production in the area is expected to increase from the
present infinitesimal level to about 182,000 tons by 1985.   Mlost of the
produce would be geared toward the rapidly expanding domestic market.
A citrus packing plant located in Miersin is only partly utilized at
present and would be able to absorb much of the increase in production
from the project.   Prospects for exports are also good.   Overall citrus
exports from Turkey are presently less than US$2 million, but are
expected to increase to US$12 million by 1985.   The project area, which
has good land communication with nearby ports, could become an important
factor in this growing export trade.
6.06      The bulk of vegetable production from the project is expected to
be consumed in the region with excess produce hauled to Ankara and
Istanbul.   Although vegetables production would not depend on export
markets, there are good prospects for developing such markets.   Presently,
exports of vegetables are quite small (some US$0.1 million), but the
country could export more provided a determined effort were made to
establish efficient marketing.   Should Turkey succeed in establishing the
necessary marketing facilities, the project could export some of its
vegetable production.
VII. FI1NANCIAL RESULTS
7.01      All investments required for development of the project are
scheduled to be completed by the end of 1974.
7,02      The project involves transformation of rudimentary dry land
farming to a modern irrigated agriculture.   The Government would provide
extension and research services, training, and administrative costs.   The
farmers would pay all operation and maintenance costs and on the basis of
findings of a water charges study (see para. 7.0), would also repay as
much as was feasible of the capital cost of the project.
Operation and Maintenance Costs
7.03      Estimates of operation and maintenance costs for Stage II are
based on experience gained in Stage I and include costs of personnel,
equipment replacement, fuel, spare parts, construction materials, overhead
and contingencies.   Annual operation and maintenance costs are estimated
at TL 135 (US$15) per ha.   For the 48.,250 ha included in Stage II, the
annual cost would be about TL 6.5 million or US$720,000.   This includes
that part of the costs of operating Seyhan Dam and Reservoir allocable to
Stage II.   Annual operation and maintenance costs would be as follows:
TL (million)
Year           1969     1970     1971     1972     1973
Cost            .4       1.2      2.1      3.3      4.5
From 1974 onwards, the full annual cost of TL 6.5 million is anticipated.



- 16 -
Water Charges
7.oQ      Existing legislation provides adequate authority for DSI to
assess and collect the necessary water charges on irrigation projects to
meet operation and maintenance costs and to amortize the investment writh
interest.   With prevailing water rates and the projected cropping
pattern for the project, annual revenues from water charges would be
about TL 6.7 million or an average rate of TL 140 per ha.   The existing
rates would thus only enable DSI to cover operation and maintenance costs
on the project.   Assuming that repayment of on-farm development works is
to begin in 1981 and payments are to be made over the life of the project,
water rates would have to be gradually increased to TL 560 per ha by
1981 in order to recover fully the investments in on-farm development.
Further details are provided in Annex 13.   Since the expected gross
value of production in the project area would increase from the present
level of TL 1,000 per ha to over TL 5,300 per ha of irrigated land at
full agricultural development in 1985, water charges could probably be
raised even further at that time in order to amortize part of the invest-
ment in civil works.   It is impracticable, however, to prescribe exact
rates at this time wyithout further study.  The Government has agreed to
undertake, with the assistance of consultants, a comprehensive study
covering both Stages I and II of the project which would relate the
recovery rate to farmerst incentives and capacity to pay.   Within two
years after signing of the loan/credit agreements, the Government would
submit such study to the Bank and the Association, and discuss with them
the effect to be given to the recommendations of the study.
Benefits to Farmers
7.05      Under prevailing dry farm methods, the average net return per ha
on project land after deducting all production costs, including imputed
wages for family labor, but before taxes and water charges, is around TL 410.
At full agricultural development in 1985, this average, without taking into
account double cropping, is expected to be TL 2,300 per ha.   Assuming
that double cropping would be practised on about 4c0 of the area, average
net income would increase further to TL 3,300 per ha.   This represents
an ultimate increase of more than eight-fold in farmerst income, and
should provide adequate incentive to farmers to participate in the
project.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The most important benefits which are expected to be derived
from the project are improved yields and the diversification of agricultural
activity, which is at present concentrated primarily on cotton production.
In addition, the project would improve the balance of payments position of
the country by reducing import needs and by contributing to exports.



- 17 -
8.02      At full agricultural development in 1985 of all lands in
Stage II, the annual gross value of production at farm prices is estimated
to increase from the present TL 51 million (US$5.7 million) to TL 354
million (US$39.3 million) per annum.   Allowing for the increase in
production costs, including imputed wages to family labor, and annual
costs of operation and maintenance, the annual incremental net value of
production to the economny at full development would be about TL 133 million
(US$ 14.8 million).   Assuming a 15-year development period and a life-
time of the project of 50 years, the investment in Stage II would yield a
rate of return to the economy of about 15% (see Annex 14).
8.03      By comparison, when benefits from Stage I are computed on the
basis of actual performance to date and present commodity price and yield
projections, the rate of return would be 14-% and the combined rate for
both Stages I and II wfould also be 14%.  The corresponding rates
estimated when Stage I was appraised in 1963 were 16 and 20% respectively.
The decline in the rates of return reflects the slow rate of construction
on Stage I and an increase in cost estimates for civil works and on-farm
development on Stage II.
IX. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMM3NDATIONS
9.01      The project is an essential and integral part of the overall
plan for development of the Adana Plain.   It would provide a dependable
water supply and adequate drainage for an area now largely dry-farmed.
Irrigation would make possible an intensive cropping pattern, enabling
greatly increased crop yields to be obtained.
9.02      In spite of a slow start, works completed on Stage I and agri-
cultural development already achieved demonstrate that the plans for
Stage II are sound.
9.03      The project is economically advantageous to Turkey and is
suitable for joint Bank/IDA financing of US$24 million, covering the
foreign exchange component of the total US$63 million investment.   The
Borrower would be the Government of Turkey.   The Bank loan term would be
30 years including ten years of grace, and the IDA credit term would be
50 years with a grace period of 10 years.
9.o4      During negotiations assurances wrere obtained that:
(a) road construction requirements, not included as part of
the project, would be carried out by the Government
during the construction period;
(b)  consultants wrould be employed by both DSI and TOPRAKSU,
and the Bank and the Association would be given the
opportunity to approve their terms of reference;



- 18 -
(c) the Government would ensure the prompt issuance of
import licences or exemption from import restrictions
for all equipment and spare parts to be used on the
project, including contractors' equipment, where
required;
(d) a list of prequalified bidders, together with the
recommendations and comments of the consultants, would
be submitted to the Bank and the Association for
approval;
(e) the Government would prepare specific recommendations,
to be discussed with the Bank and the Association,
regarding the amount of agricultural credit to be made
available to the Agricultural Bank for use in Stage I
and II of the project over the next five years;
(f)  the Project Coordination Organization wiould continue to
function during Stage II;
(g) the Government would provide extension and research
services;
(h) with the assistance of consultants, a comprehensive
water charge study covering Stages I and II would be
carried out and would relate the recovery rate to
farmers' incentives and capacity to pay.   The study is
to be submitted within two years.
February 4, 1969



ANNEX 1
SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE II
SOILS
1.        The Seyhans Ceyhan and Berdan Rivers have played a major role in
the formation of the Adana Plain. The plain is essentially a compound
delta formed by alluvial depositions from the rivers and outwash from the
Taurus Mountains to the north.
2.        As would be expected in any large alluvial plain such as the one
under consideration, the soils are quite variable, depending on the source
and nature of the parent material and the manner of deposition. However,
as a general observation, it may be stated that the soils vary from slightly
coarser-grained clay loams across the northern or higher elevations of the
plain to progressively finer-grained heavy dense clays as one proceeds
southward toward the sea coast.
3.        The soils of the plain may be divided into three broad categories,
with the first two of which this report is mainly concerned. The categories
are as follows:
(a) the highlands located between the foothills of the Taurus-
Mountains and a line two to five kilometers south of and
parallel to the Mersin-Misis Highway. Project units 1 and
2TP and parts of 4 and 5YP are included in this category;
(b) the central delta including the area from the sorthern
boundary of category (a) above to about the five-meter
contour elevation; and
(c) the lower delta comprising the lands between the five-meter
contour and the Karatus limestone hills and the sand dunes along the sea
coast.
4.        The soils in category (a), the higher lands, consist of
sedimentary deposits from the livestock rocks of the Taurus JIountains.
They are highly calcareous,, lime content ranging from 16 to 30%. Some soils
in the northern part of this area are shallow, but in the major part of the
area they are deep, Textures range from clay loams to fine silts and clays
underlain by clay with some sand and gravel. This area in general is well
drained owing to the permeability of the underlying strata. No appreciable
salt or alkali problems exist and very little artificial drainage will be
required except in the southern parts of the area. M4ost of the area would
be well adapted to vegetable and orchard production.
5.        Soils within the central delta area, category (b), are quite
variable, particularly in the northern part of the area, depending upon the
source of the material deposited. Those parts of the area having alluvial



ANNEX 1
Page 2
fan deposits from the mountains and areas comprising old natural river levees
and channels are of coarser-grained texture with good permeability. No salt
or alkali problems exist in these areas. Water tables are high in most of
the area, so artificial drainage would be required to maintain production when
large quantities of water are applied to the plain. In the balance of the
central delta, the soils are much heavier, ranging from medium to heavy clays.
Internal drainage varies from good to very poor, depending upon the water
table level which varies from very near surface to about three meters in
depth. Slight to severe salinization of these soils, depending on their
proximity to the rivers, is now apparent, Although many of these lands
are now in production, these soils will become increasingly saline after
irrigation commences, unless adequate drainage is provided. IWith adequate
drainage, these soils should be well adapted to rice and other cereals
as well as cotton in the better locations.
6.        The lower delta area, category (c), is predominantly comprised
of hydromorphic soilsj, with small areas of loess soils and sand dunes
along the Mediterranean coast. The hydromorphic soils generally are of
very heavy texture and poorly drained, Following wetting, they swell and
then shrink and crack when dried. Hydromorphic soils are found in about
the lower one-third of the Adana Plain; all have serious drainage
problems and many are saline-alkaline. A very small amount of this area
is presently under production because of the high water table and saline
conditions* Rice is the main crop grown, with limited areas of cotton
in the more desirable locations.
7.        Stage I of the irrigation plan which is nearing completion,
includes limited areas of hydromorphic soils, the majority falling into
category (b). The soils of Stage II as defined in this report fall mostly
into category (a).



TURKEY: SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE - STAGE 31
1968                1969                 1970                 1971                 1972                1973                 1974                1975
STAGE I COMPLETION
DSI IRRIGATION WORKS
Right Conveyance Canal km 13-26
ITP, KS6
3YP-IYP, KS8
Canal Rider Houses
TOPRAKSU
7,000 ha             6,000 ho            9,000 ha             9,000 he             8,750 ha
Land Levelling
3,700 ha            4,000 ha             4,000 ho             3,794 ha
Tile Drainage
Tertiary Canals, Drains & Roads
STAGE II
DSI IRRIGATION & DRAINAGE WORKS
Area ITP                                                              -
Area 27? 
Area 3TP
Area 2YP
Area 5YP                                                              -
Headworks                                                                                  -                               -
O & M Facilities
PROCUREMENT
Equipment Pipe Factory
O & M Equipment
TOPRAKSU
6,000 ha         6,000 ho             6,000 ha            15,000 ho            15,250 ha
Land Levelling                                                                           -
3,000 ha         4,500 ha             4,500 ha             4,500 ho            4,400 ha
Tile Drainage                                                                            -
47 km         190 km               190 km               190 km               190 km              143 km
Surface Drainage                                                      -
12 km          48 km               48 km                48 km               48 km                36 km
Field Roads
Equipment PurchasesPcs
CONSULTANT SERVICES                                                          -                                                                                                                                 z
Z
IBRD-4237       X
I"



ANNEX 3
SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE II
DESCRIPTION OF WORKS
1.        The works on the project are divided into irrigation and
drainage works to be constructed by contractors selected after international
competitive bidding under the supervision of DSI and their consultants.
Topraksu would in general perform the majority of the on-farm construction
by force account although it is expected that about 10% of the work would
be performed under contract with local contractors. The irrigation and
drainage wiorks include the construction of canals, drains and distribution
system. On-farm development works include land leveling, installation of
farm tile drainage, excavation of surface drains and construction of
feeder roads.
Irrigation and Drainage Works
2.        Project lands lie on two plains separated by the Seyhan Rivera
Those lying west of the river are on the Tarsus Plain and are designated
as TP areas* Those east of the river lie on the Yuregir Plain and are
prefixed YP.
3.        Irrigation and drainage works would be constructed by contracts
let after international competitive bidding. The only exception would
be the headworks at the dam site which would be constructed by DSIts force
account and the operation and maintenance facilities which would be
built by local contractors. Pumping stations, which were originally
included in the project proposal, would not be built as all areas in
Stage II would be served by gravity flowo All main canals would be unlined,
except for the first 11 km of the TS-1 canal, The distribution system
consisting of concrete pipe and canalettes is designed to deliver 0.8 1/sec/
ha. A water surface elevation, 60-80 cm above ground level, would be
maintained at turnouts to provide head for efficient irrigationo The
surface drainage system would be designed to remove the runoff from a
storm having a frequency of one year in ten, assuming an infiltration rate
of 6 mm per hour, within a short enough time to avoid damage to the crops.
4.        The project area is divided into five units, three on the Tarsus
Plain and two on the Yuregir Plain. Eight civil works contracts are
presently proposed for the irrigation and drainage works, although these
contracts would be consolidated further in order to attract international
contractors. The nature of the works is as follows:
(a) 2TP
This area contains 14,250 ha for wJhich three contracts are
proposed. The first would include construc3ion of the TS-1
main canal with an initial capacity of 21 m /sec. Except
for the first 11 km which would be concrete lined, the



ANNEX 3
Page 2
canal would be unlined.- The second contract would include
construction of the TS-2 canal and enlargement and
reconstruction of the Kusaklama drain which would serve to
intercept runoff from the foothill area and divert it into
the Berdan River before it reaches the main plain. The
third contract would include construction of the drainage
and distribution system including the installation of
concrete pipe in the area served by the-TS-l canal and
canalettes in the area served by the TS-2 canal;
(b) 5yp
This area contains 6,100 ha and would be served by a new
canal starting at Seyhan Dam. The-contract would include
construction of the main canal (YS-9), the installation of
a concrete pipe distribution system and excavation of the
surface drainage system;
(c) lTP
This area contains 3,700 ha. Some parts of the area are
irrigated by an extension of the Right Conveyance Canal
but the system is in need of rehabilitation and the
installation of drainage. The contract for this area
would include all work on main canals, distribution and
drainage system. Canalettes would be used for the
distribution system;
(d) 2YP
Three contracts would be awarded in this area which contains
approximately 13,000 ha. The exact work division between
the three is not yet defined but would involve work on
the main canal and drains, the installation of the canalette
distribution system and a surface drainage system;
(e)  3TP
This area contains 2,200 ha. Only one contract would be
awarded here, covering all works on the main canals and
drains, installation of canalettes and excavation of
surface drains; and
(f) Headworks
New headworks would be installed through the right abutment
of--the emergency spillway at Seyhan Reservoir for canal
TS-1 serving the 2TP area. A gate structure would be
constructed and a channel excavated into the reservoir with
bottom elevation at 47m with a cast in place concrete pipe
built in a cut and cover section through the abutment.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
The existing irrigation outlet constructed at the left
abutment would be modified to supply the new canal YS-9
serving the 5YP area. The existing hollow jet valve
would be moved and a steel pipe installed on the left
dam abutment to the elevation of the canal heading. A
control valve would be installed at the discharge end of
the pipe.
On-Farm Development
5-        On-farm development works would consist of land leveling over
the entire areas installation of 1,667 km of farm tile drainage on 20,900 ha,
excavation of 950 lkm of surface drains throughout the project area, and
construction of 240 kom of feeder roads. Leveling requirements fall into
four categories according to the amount of earth mnoveme4t required.
These are: larmd planing only; light leveling (0-450 m-) ha); medium
leveling (450-900 m3/ha); and heavy leveling (over 900 mj/ha). It is
estimated that land planing would be required on 21% of the area, light
leveling on 31%, medium leveling on 37% and heavy leveling on 11%.     -
Farm tile drains would on1y be required in the lTP and 2YP areas. Sub-
surface drainage construction would be acconplished by buried tile lines
spaced 100-150m apart. Actual spacing would be determined by the hydraulic
characteristics of the soil profile and the need to maintain a minimum
groundwater depth of 1.2m between drains. Surface drainage would be
accomplished through leveling and the construction of collection drains
at the lower end of each field from which water would be conveyed to the
project drainage system. To provide access to farms which are not adjacent
to the main canalo, additional farm and village roads would be constructed.
The estimated additional road requirement in the project area is 6.6 mAha
of stabilized road. Since some of the roads would be constructed by DSI
and other agencies, TOPRAKSU's road program wJould only include 5 rn/ha
or a total of 240 km. All road construction would be done by contractors.



AkNNEx 4
SEYiAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE II
WATER SUPPLY, REQUIREMENTS ANID QUALITY
Water Supply
1.        The Seyhan River has a drainage area above the Seyhan Dam of
19,254 km2e Records of flow are available from 1939 to the present.
Records taken since 1953 are considered reliable. Those taken earlier
have been reanalyzed in light of the more dependable subsequent records.
Mean annual inflow to the Seyhan Reservoir for the period 1939 to 1964
inclusive is 5,393 TMim3 and varies from a low of 3,1484 in 1964 to a high
of 7,878 vTm3 in 1953.
2.        Seyhan Dam and Reservoir were first placed in operation in 1956.
Reservoir capacities are allocated as follows:
yffa3      Elevations m
Dead Storage                300         Below 49
Irrigation and Power        500         49-61
Flood Control               400         61-67
Flood Surcharge             300         67-70.9
Operating rules adopted for the reservoir are:
November 1 to April 1       Ilaximum pool elevation 61,0 except
during floods
April 1 to April 30         Pool allowed to fill to elevation
67.0
1May 1 to September 3D     Mkaxium pool elevation 67.0
October 1 to October 31     Pool drawn down to elevation 61.0
3.    -   Reservoir operation studies were made by the Consultants for
the 25 year period 1939-64 inclusive. The full irrigation demand,
assuming that the entire 170,000 ha of the Adana Plain were irrigated, was
imposed. Some water spilled every year except one. Irrigation demands
were satisfied in every year without shortage. The lowest reservoir
level was reached in 1964 with a minimum level of 57.3m.
4.        From this study it can be concluded that there is no question of
adequacy of the water supply to meet all requirements for irrigation water
for Stages I and II. Iwhen Stage III is appraised, this point should be
further reviewed in light of records then available as to whether the
water supply might impose a limitation on land to be developed.



Water Requirements
5.        Water requirements have been computed for Stage II using
identical procedures to those used for Stage I. Irrigation requirements
were calculated by the Penman consumptive use formula after deducting
from it effective rainfall. Field application was assumed at 70%
efficiency and canal and operation losses as 25% of water diverted. The
annual irrigation requirement for Stages I and II are summarized as
follows:
STAGES I AND II
Irrigation                    Farm
Crop      Area     Consumptive  Irrigation     Delivery 1/ Diversion
Use less    Requirement Requirement.- Requirement-/
Rainfall
(Hectares)   (Meters)                 illions m            -
Cotton     43,150      0O58           250          357           476
Rice        5,000       10e8           54           77           103
Citrus     11,000       0.70           77           10           147
Alfalfa    13,500       0.54           73          104           139
Other       2,000       0.67           13           19            25
Fruits
Short      26,500       0.54          143          204           272
Crops
1013150                     610          871         1,162
1,162 Ym3 - 942,000 ac-ft m 3e74 ac-ft/ac.
Water Quality
6.        The quality of the water of the Seyhan River is excellent.
Total dissolved solids as measured in samples taken from canals and the
reservoir vary from 150 to 320 p.p.m. with a low sodium percentage.
1/ Irrigation efficiency of 70% i.e., 007 Farm Delivery Requirement
Irrigation Requirement.
/ Diversion loss of 25% i.e., 0.75 Diversion Requirement = Farm Delivery
Requirement.



ANNEX 5
SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE II
CONSULTANT SERVICES
Number         Man-Months
DSI
Irrigation and Drainage Works
Project Manager                            1                 60
Planning Engineers                         2                  6
Design Engineers                           7                 68
Specification Engineer                     1                  6
Construction Engineers                     7                228
Operation and Maintenance Advisor          1                 48
Head Office                                                  20
Unassf'6ned D:,crts                        -                  5
Sub-Total                                                 441
Toxo ENA Trr'TT
Gn-i'arrm DeveLopnment
Chief Engineer                             1                 hS
Irrigation and Drainage Engineer           1                 36
Machinery Specialist                       1                 36
Head Office                                                  20
TT:te,:,. E;z,erts                                            3
Sub-Total                                                 143
TOTAL Man-Months                                          584



ANNEX 6
SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE II
COST ESTIMATES
TL (millions)         US$ (millions)
Item                       Local  Forean    Total  Local  Foreign  Total
DSI
I.     Irrigation and Drainage Works/'
Area 1 TP                        15.3    8.1     23.4   1.7     .9      2.6
Area 2 TP                       58.5    30.6     89.1   6.5    3.4      9.9
Area 3 TP                         9.9    4.5     14.4   1.1     .5      1.6
Area 2 YP                        40.5   21.6     62.1   4.5    2.4      6.9
Area 5 YP                       18.0     9.9     27.9   2.0    1.1      3.1
Headworks                        6.3      -       6.3    .7     -        .7
0 & M Facilities                 6.3      -       6.3    .7     -         .7
Contingencies 20%             30.6    15.3     45.9   3.4    1.7      5.1
Right of Way                     29.7     -      29.7   3.3     -       3.3
Engineering & Administration    30.6      -      30.6   3.4     -       3.4
Sub-Total                    Z77      90.0    =3.    27.3     10.0   37.3
II.    Equipment and Supplies
Equipment for Pipe Manufacture   -       1.8      1.8    -      .2       .2
Gates, Hoists and Material for
Irrigation & Drainage Works    -       6.3      6.3    -      .7       .7
0 & M Equipment                   -     16.2     16.2    -     1.8      1.8
Sub-Total                      -      24.3     24.3    -     2.7      2.7
Total DSI                     245.7  114.3    360.0  27.3   12.7      40.0
TOPRAKSU
III.   On-Farm Development
Land Leveling                   41.4     6.3     47.7   4.6     .7      5.3
Tile Drainage                    18.9    2.7     21.6   2.1     .3      2.4
Surface Drainage                  7.2     .9      8.1    .8     .1       .9
Feeder Roads                     4.5      .9      5.4    .5     .1       .6
Contingencies 20%              14.4    1.8     16.2   1.6     .2      1.8
Engineering & Administration      7.2     -       7.2    .8     -        .8
Sub-Total                     937    l.o      5b7S I. .      I      11.T
IV.    Equipment and Nlachinery             -    63.0     63.0   _      7.0      7.0
Total TOPRAKSU                 93.6   75.6    169.2  10.4    8.1     18.8
V.     Consultants                        11.7    8.1     19.8   1.3     .9      2.2
VI.    Interest during Construction
@ 6.5% 2/                        -    18.0     18.0    -     2.0      2.0
GRAND TOTAL                   351.0  216.0    567.0  39.0   24.o     63.0
1/ The cost of works subject to international bidding, including contingencies, is
US$28.9 million-(TL 260.1 million).    It is expected that local contractors would
be successful- bidders on 60% of the works (US$17.3 million or TL 155.7 million).
The imputed foreign exchange cost of civil works carried out by local contractors
is 24% (US$4.2 million or TL 37.8 million), and for foreign contractors 50%
(US$5.8 million or TL 52.2 million).   The total foreign exchange cost (US$10.0
million or TL 90 million) was then pro-rated.
2/ Provision of US$2 million (TL 18 million) has been made for the payment of interest
on the Bank loan of US$10 million at 6.5% daring the construction period which iall
end in December, 1974.   Thereafter, for the remainder of the grace period of ten
years, interest will be payable by the borrower on the Bank loan.



SEYHAN IRRI3ATION PROJECT
STAGE II
EQUIFNENT LIST
DSI                                                                Total Cost
(CIF Adana)
Item                                    No.          US$ lOOO's
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Excavator Dragline - 1½ cu yd                      1                 53
Excavator Dragline - 3/4 cu yd                     2                  87
Gradal or Simiar - i cu yd                         1                  47
Trailer - 30 ton                                   2                  52
Dozer - D8                                         2                110
Dozer - D6C                                        2                  56
Dozer - D4                                         1                  15
Tractor Wheel                                      3                  20
Motor Grader - 100-120 hp                          3                  54
Motor Grader - 50 hp                               1                  10
Loader Wheel - 1-314 cu yd                         2                  40
Loader Crawler - 1-3/4 cu yd                       1                 15
Scraper - 12-15 cu yd                              1                 15
Truck Dump - 7 ton                                30                 300
Truck Flatbed - 7-10 ton                           8                  80
Pick-Up 4 ND - ½1- ton                            18                  54
Jeep 4 WD                                          8                 16
Station Wagon 4 WD                                 5                 18
Truck Crane - 15 ton                               1                  25
Contractor Pumps - 2 in - 4 in                     4                  6
Portable Workshop                                  3                  52
Generator - 5-10 kw                                3                   6
Welding Generator - 100A                           3                   9
Compressors - 120-220 psi                          3                  9
Concrete Mixer - 120-250 1                         2                   4
Concrete Dumper - 300 1                            2                  4
Compactor (Vibratory)                              2                  1
Contourmatic Sprayer                               1                   8
Gunite Machine                                     1                   7
Trencher - J57                                     1                  44
Truck for water tank (with tank)                   2                  25
Backhoe with front end Loader on Wheel Tractor     3                  42
Current Meters                                     3)                  3
Water Stage Recorders                              3)
Spare Parts 20%                                   L.S.              257
Contingency 15%                                                      232
Subtotal 0 & M Equipment                                       1,776
Equipment and Supplies
Equipment for pipe manufacturing                  L.S.               200
Epoxy                                             L.S.               100
Curing Compound                                   L.S.              100
Headworks mechanical equipment                    L.S.               500
Subtotal                                                          900
TOTAL DSI                                                       2,676



ANIqEX 7
Page 2
TOPRAKSU                                                         Total Cost
(CIF Adana)
Item                                        No.         US$ l000's
Land Levelling
Scraper with Tractor 12-17 cu yd                  33             1,419
Scraper with Tractor 7-9 cu yd                    29               986
Scraper 8 cu yd with wheeled tractor              14               392
U-dozer blade with controls for
150 hp tractor                                   8                30
U-dozer blade with control for
110 hp tractor                                   8                22
Land Plane with 110 hp crawler tractor             4               100
Land Plane with 50-65 hp wheeled tractor          10                70
Subtotal                                                      3,019
Tile Drainage
Trencher                                           5               150
Front end loader, 1-3/A cu yd
side dump bucket                                 5               100
Front end loader, 1-3/4 cu yd
standard bucket                                  2                38
Excavator dragline, 3/4 cu yd                      1                30
Dump truck 8 Ton capacity                         18               180
Flat bed truck - 3 ton                             5                30
Grader, motor patrol, I10-130 hp                   4                75
Screening plant                                    2                50
Subtotal                                                        653
Surface Drainage
Grader                                             2                38
Farm ditcher with tractor 50-60 hp                 5                40
Farm ditcher with tractor 30-40 hp                 5                30
Subtotal                                                        108
General and Transportation
Low bed tractor-trailer - 30 ton capacity          5               190
Bus for 45 persons                                 7                98
Self propelled trailer 4 x 4                       1                 5
Jeep                                               5                10
Trailer Truck                                      2               100
Pick-Up 2 x 4                                     30                90
Pick-Up 4 x 4                                     13                47
Station Wagon 2 x 4                                4                14
Station Wagon 4 x 4                                2                 8
Two-way radio for car or pick-up                  14                 4
Central radio transmittor                          1                 2
Subtotal                                                        568



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Total Cost
(CIF Adana)
Item                                       No.           US$ 1000's
Service Equipment
lIbbile maintenance shop                           8               80
Mbbile repair shop                                 7              248
Fuel tanker 5000 1                                4                60
Central Work shop equipment                       -                5°
Subtotal                                                       435
Extension Services
Vehicles                                          18               59
Tractors                                           4               66
Pick-Ups                                         L.S.              88
Miscellaneous                                    L.S.
Subtotal                                                       275
Total Equipment                                              5,058
Spare Parts 20%                                                 1,010
Total before contingencies                                      6,068
Contingencies 15%                                                 910
TOTAL TOPRAKSU                                               6.978



ANNEX 8
SEYHAN IRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE II
EXUIFIMT REQUIREMENTS FOR CIVIL tORKS
Estimated Cost
CIF Adana
Item                                 No.              US$ 1000's
Construction. Equipment
Area 1 TP
Heavy Equipment                          5                   250
Miscellaneous                                                100
Area 2 TP
Heavy Equipment                         19                   950
Compressors                              5                    50
Miscellaneous                                                400
Area 3 TP
aiscellaneous                                                150
Area 2 YP
Heavy Equipment                         12                   650
Miscellaneous                                                260
Area 5 YP
Heavy Equipment                          3                   150
Compressors                              2                    20
Miscellaneous                                                 70
Subtotal                                              3,050
Spare Parts 20%               L.S.                  610
Total before contingencies                            3,660
Contingencies 15%                                   550
TOTAL                                                 4.210



ANNEX 9
SEYBHAN IRRIATION PROJECT
STAGE II
PRESSZT CROPPING PATTEMI
'48,150 Irrigable Ha
Gross              Net
Value   Pro-     Value
Area    Yield  Price    of Pro- duction of Pro-
Crop                   ha     kgAa   TL/kg   duction  Costs   duction
----- TL (Million)-
Dry Farming
Seed Cotton               38,800     600    1.40    32.6    21.7     10.9
Cereals                    5,ooo   1,500     .50     3.8     2.6     1.2
Melons and Watermelons    2?°00   15,000     .20     6.o     2.6      3.4
Subtotal             45,800                     42.4    26.9    15.5
Irrigated Land
Seed Cotton               1,500    2,000    1.40     4.2     2.5     1.7
Rice (Paddy)                 550   3,000    1.00     1.7       .8      .9
Citrus                       100  20,000     .50     1.0      .3       .7
Vegetables                   200  15,000     .60     1.8     1.0       .8
Subtotal               2,350                     8.7     4.6     4.1
GRANfl TOTAL                 48,150                    51.1    31.5     19.6



ANNEX 10
SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE II
PROJECTED FUTURE CROPPIUG PATTERM
Gross            Net
Value   Pro-    Value
Area    Yield   Price  of Pro- duction of Pro-
Crop               ha     kg/ha   TL/kg  duction Costs    duction
---TL (Million) ------
Irrigated Land
Seed Cotton             23,150   2,400   1.40    77.8    44.0    33.8
Cereals                  3,500   2,800     .50    4.9     2.5    2.4
Rice (Pad,dy)            2,000   4,000   1.00     8.0     4.0    4.0
Citrus V.                7,000 26,000     .50    91.0    60.0   31.0
Vegetables               3,500  20,000     .60   42.0    19.2    22.8
Oilseeds                 2,500   1,300   1.30     4.2     1.7    2.5
Ilblons and Watermelons  2,000 25,000     .20    10.0     5.0    5.0
Alfalfa                  2,500 12,000      .15    4.5     3.5     1.0
Other Fruits             2,000 12,000      .60   14.4     8.0    6.4
Subtotal           48,150                  256.8   147.9   108.9
Winter Crops
Vegetables               4,000 20,000      .60   48.o    20.0    28.0
Melons and Watermelons   3,500 25,000      .20   17.5     8.7     8.8
Dry Beans               12,500   1,800   1.40    31.5    16.7   14.8
Subtotal           20,000                   97.0    45.4   51.6
GRAND TOTAL                68,150                  353.8   193.3  160.5
/ Production costs include the estimated investment required to replant
trees after the seventeenth year.



ANNEX U2
SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE la
By 1985, when all lands in Stage II should be fully developed, roughly
72% of the net value of production should be derived from three crops:  cot-
ton, citrus and vegetables. The marketing prospects for these three crops
are as follows:
Cotton.   It is estimated that by 1985, Turkey's cotton crop could total
1.85 million bales, an increase of roughly 23% over the 1965-66 production.
Of this total, some 159,000 bales or 9% would be produced on Stages I and
II / together. At present, about one-half of the total production of cotton
in Turkey is exported. This is roughly 6% of world cotton export. Assuming
that the present pattern of export remains the same., roughly 925,000 bales
would be left for domestic consumption in 1985. Cotton is the major textile
fiber used by the Turkish population. According to the Food and Agricultural
Organization, Turkey's per capita consumption of all fibers totalled 11.2 lb
in 1963. Of the total, cotton accounted for 8.2 lb. In view nf the increase
in per capita income (an increase of 4.5% per annum) and the population growth
estimated at 2.5% per annur.,the domestic consumption of textile and hence of
cotton would increase considerably. Turkey's cotton textile industry has in-
creased cotton consumption considerably in recent years. Several mills have
ambitious expansion and modernization programs either underway or planned.
A report released early in 1966 by Turkey's State Planning Office indicated
that by 1970 the nation's cotton spinning capacity would be increased by at
least 15%. Much of the increased cotton consumption would probably be by
private mills. Managers in many private mills are aggressively seeking new
domestic outlets, while Sumerbank (a Government organization) seems content
to maintain traditional domestic markets. In addition, national policy calls
for the encouragement of textile exports. Turkey's exports of cotton yarn
and fabric were negligible before 1960. In that year, Turkey shipped 19 M sq
yd of fabric, and about 9,000,000 yd in each of the next two years. Shipments
were sharply raised in 1963 and reached a record of about 25 M sq yd in 1965.
Major destinations of Turkish cotton textiles have included the United States,
the United Kingdom, West Germany, Cyprus and Tunisia.  In July, 1964, Turkey
and the United States announced a bilateral agreement covering Turkey's ex-
ports of cotton textiles to the United States. The agreement, reached in
accordance with provisions of the Long-Term Cotton Textile Arrangement (made
under GATT), extends over a three-year period which began July 1, 1964; this
1/ It is expected that by 1985 only 20,000 ha in Stage I would be under
cotton cultivation and would produce some 73,000 bales. Stage II
would produce roughly 86,000 bales.  (Bales of 480 lb net).



Al E11
Page 2
had been extended for a further three years. In addition to a one-time al-
lowance of 1.1 M sq yd, overall ceilings for the first year totalled 2.75
M sq yd. In each year of the agreement ceilings will be increased 5% over
those of the preceding period.
In view of these facts it appears very likely that Turkey would be
able to market the total cotton production without much difficulty. From
the importing countries' point of view, Turkey is a well established source
of relatively high-quality cotton at competitive prices.
The recent price trends in cotton have varied according to staple
length and variety but have been on the whole less unfavorable than had been
anticipated. Although the new legislation empowered the U.S. to reduce the
U.S. export price (and, therefore, world price) for middling 1 in cotton from
about 23.5 cents per lb (f.o.b.) to as low as 21.0 cents, the Administration
announced a minimum CCC-export price of 22.0 cents at the beginning of the
season, and prices have in fact fluctuated around this level in recent months.
Prices of medium and longer staples and of superior varieties within each
staple length, on the other hand, are running 2-3 cents higher than last year
and above the corresponding U.S. rates. Thus, while the U.S. export price
continues to act as a floor for the world price in shorter staple cottons,
there seems to be currently a genuinely free market in longer staple cottons.
The bulk of Turkish cotton is already medium long and the staple length is
expected to improve further as a result of irrigation and better variety of
seeds. In addition, the grade of cotton would be improved by reducing the
amount of foreign materials now found in Turkish cotton and this improvement
would render it more attractive to importers.
In view of these developments and assuming that cotton prices would
continue to follow the recent trend, it was assumed that farm gate prices
in Turkey would be 7 cents per lb for seed cotton. Prices for lint cotton
(1/3 of seed cotton) would thus be around 21-22 cents per lb f.o.b. Mersin,
with the surplus seeds covering the ginning costs. After adding transporta-
tion and insurance costs, Turkish cotton would be priced at 23-24 cents per
lb (c.i.f. Liverpool) compared with a projected world market price of 25-26
cents. Turkey would thus be in a position to compete in the world market
even if prices should fall below the presently expected level.
Citrus. The bulk of citrus production, roughly 80 to 85% would be domestic-
ally consumed. Considering an improved transportation network inside the
country, population growth and increased purchasing power, the domestic de-
mand for citrus is expected to rise at a rate of about 10% per annum. In
addition, since most of the citrus plantations would be new, Turkey would be
in a position to select a variety which would better fit the timing of demand
from importing countries. Moreover, in the past, Turkey has exported citrus
to Eastern Bloc countries and these exports are expected to increase in the
future. However, it does not seem justified to count on sizeable citrus
exports, The situation could improve if a determined export drive were



ANNEX 11
Page 3
launched. In view of these facts, it is estimated that total citrus exports
could reach $ 12 million by 1985, compared with less than $ 2 million in 1964.
This would still be a very small percentage of the total world export.
Vegetables. The marketing prospects for vegetables are the same as for citrus.
Mainly they would be marketed inside the country. Present exports of vege-
tables are quite small (some US$ 0.10 million). Turkey could export more,
especially to the Middle East, provided a determined effort were made to es-
tablish efficient marketing. In addition, the demand for canned vegetables
in Turkey is expected to rise considerably. Thus the processing industry
would provide another outlet for the increased production of vegetables.



TURKEY: SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART -STAGE I[
CENTRAL COORDINATION COMMITTEE -ANKARA
CHIEF COORDINATOR OF THE STATE PLANNING ORGANIZATION
GENERAL DIRECTOR - D. S. I., MINISTRY OF ENERGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES
GENERAL DIRECTOR - TOPRAKSU, MINISTRY OF VILLAGE AFFAIRS
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE AGRICULTURAL BANK
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE EXTENSION SERVICE, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
SEYHAN PROJECT COORDINATION COMMITTEE -ADANA
PROJECT COORDINATOR
(Senior Official of the Stote Planning Organization)
REGIONAL DIRECTOR-D.S.I.*      REGIONAL DIRECTOR-TOPRAKSU*            EXTENSION SERVICE *              AGRICULTURAL BANK
Responsible for planning,design,  Responsible for on-form           Responsible for providing technical  Responsible for supplying credits
construction, operation and       development in the project area.  assistance and services to farmers  to farmers in the project areo.
maintenance of the project.                                        in the project area.
PLANT              COTTON
PROTECTION          RESEARCH
INSTITUTE          INSTITUTE
*A foreign engineering consulting firm would assist D.S.I. in all irrigation and drainage works and would provide technical assistance    D
to TOPRAKSU and the Extension Services.                                                                                                  Z
(4R)IBRD-3498 -
TURKEY: SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT~~~~~~



ANNEX 13
SEYHA.1N IRRDATION PROJECT
STAGE II
1-ATER CHAM1ES
On-farm development works on Stage I were to be financed through loans
to farmers from the Agricultural Bank on the basis of farm plans prepared
and approved by Topraksu. This arrangement failed to produce the desired
results and in 1966, as part of the project revision, Topraksu was given
full responsibility for implementing the on-farm development works on behalf
of the farmers. The cost of these works were included in the project costs
and farmers would repay them through water charges. The new provisions for
on-farm development proved to be successful and were adopted for Stage II
as well.
Superimposing existing water rates on the projected cropping pattern
for the project results in an average water charge rate of about TL 140 per
ha, or an annual total of TL 6.7 million. The existing rate would thus only
cover annual operation and maintenance costs and, in order to recover the
investment in on-farm development, water rates would have to be increased.
Assuming that repayment is to begin in 1981, the annual charge (principal plus
6% interest) would be TL 19.8 million over the remaining life of the project.
Making allowance for years in which late rains would reduce the demand for
irrigation, such payments would require an increase in water charges from
the present average rate of TL 140 per ha to TL 560 per ha by 1981. iEth
this increase in water charges, project revenues and expenses would be
roughly as follows:
Expenses                                     Mil.lion TL
Annual operation and maintenance cost                   6.5
Annual amortization of on-farm development works
at 6% interest (over a 38-year period begin-
ning in 1981)                                        19.8
Total            26.3
Revenue
Water charges on the basis of TL 560 per ha            27.0
At full agricultural development, the adjusted water rates would re-
present approximately 17% of average net value of production from both irri-
gated and winter crops. Such rates are not unduly high and could be increased
further to recover a portion of the investment in civil works. It is not
practicable, however, to prescribe an exact level of water charges at this
time. The Government would therefore undertake a comprehensive study to de-
termine future rates. The proposed study would cover both Stages I and II
and would relate the recovery rate to farmers' incentives and capacity to
pay. On the basis of the study which would be completed within two years
after signing the Loan and Credit Agreements, the new level of water charges
would be determined.



ANNM 1L4
SEYHAN IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAGE II
ECONOMIC RLTE OF RETURN
The following assumptions were made in computing the economic
benefits to be derived from the project:
a) All project investments represented in Annex 6, except for
interest during construction were included in the cost stream.
In addition, TL 36 million were added to the cost stream in
the first year representing the cost of joint works allocated
to Stage II. Joint works include: modification of the right
and left bank conveyance canals; primary, secondary and ter-
tiary laterals and drains and a portion of the cost of the
Seyhan Dam and Reservoir allocated to irrigation.
b) The distribution system in area ITP-KS6 is being constructed
as part of Stage I while the on-farm development is included
in Stage II. In computing the rate of return, the cost of
the distribution system in the area (TL 17.7 million) was
added to Stage II in the first year and the benefits phased
in as they accrue.
c) The change over from the present cropping pattern to the
projected one was assumed to occur gradually over the
first 15 years of the project.
d) In computing agricultural benefits it was assumed that crops
would reach the projected yields and production costs in
the following manner: citrus in the 12th year; cotton, cereal
and rice in the 6th year; all other crops after the 3rd year.
The increases in production costs and yields were phased
between the first year and the year at which the crop reaches
full development. Production costs include wages for hired
labor and the imputed cost of family labor.
e)  In computing economic benefits from cotton production, an
f.o.b. 14ersin price equivalent to TL 1.52 per kg of seed
cotton was used instead of the TL 1.40 per kg used to cal-
culate farmers' income. The cost of ginning and transporta-
tion to Nersin was assumed to be covered by the value of
seeds left after the ginning.
f) Replanting of citrus trees was assumed to occur after the
17th year. Thus net benefits from citrus production
on the project would reach a peak of TL 52 million in
the 20th year, decline to TL 10 million by the 27th year,



AIqNl 4
Page 2
and increase again to their peak by the 3jth year. For the
purpose of economic analysis it was assumed that the net
value of citrus production would stabilize at TL 31 million
after the 20th year.
The incremental net benefits and project costs streams based on
the above assumptions are illustrated in the following table.
Incremental Net Value of
Year      Project Costs                  Production
-   --------- TL  M llions -----------------------
1            122                             9
2            144                            15
3            146                            24
4            120                            40
5             68                            56
6             21                            67
7              7                            77
8                                           84
9                                           91
10                                          100
11                                          107
12                                          124
13                                          139
14                                          147
15                                          154
16                                          162
17                                          167
18                                          169
19                                          169
20                                          169
21                                          140
50
If the tourist rate of exchange is used, namely TL 12 to US$ 1, the rate of
return would be slightly greater than 14% compared with about 15% at the
official rate of exchange.
2/ Project costs from the 7th year on represent the rounded annual
operation and maintenance costs.



' -  : ' '  ' ': ' '- ' "'-''. \   ''                            \             \                                             .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  IR A
- " - " -:3: , S ,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................... B
sUrxeY < < / 7 i. N I E RC C;
SEYHAN  IRRIGATION  PROJET   - : - +\         \:             t. A-A JA
STAGE                                                                   z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ... ..... . . :  -- .Al.pp
* ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~ Triaincnl   TG      OILTD-                    \       \5                     /|C                       < 
~ ~ ~ Drainag  canals  <H;,  tl TOPRASSUONLY  -  >     \            ,6            =  -   ~     ( Y-P
I | ~~~~~~~~~~~~-i 1,Lve TG IDI2TOPRSU\\,X J..-.:.-
8 g z g | S W Railroad _ \ , _s - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
STAGE I11.  i FUTURF       \_)            /t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m-i
T  P   Tarsus  Pl-in  .,   .  O   i'   4   E;   E   10      -   ,:     xf  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~H    -
y p  Yuregir Plain                   KILOMETERS                \_>gn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L.
JA U R  99IR                                                                                                                                   14



