F긴Y . …－치． ·＼1 -, FI
「，/[. &-, ．…－.-,1--...(／〃． ...．·－&,!
7‘「， … ,-&’·씩－-[&&&&-’。－-.1&&1&,& ㅏ．&&&&．긴‘」


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 143 TU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Seyhan Irrigation Project-Stage 11)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 28, 1969


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 143 TU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Seyhan Irrigation Project-Stage II)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 28, 1969


﻿AGREEMENT, dated February 28, 1969, between REPUB-
LIC OF TURKEY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
ATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATIoN (hereinafter called the
Association) :
AVIIEREAS, pirsuaiit to the developmiient credit agieenieut
between the Borrower and the Association dated May 31,
1963, the Association is assisting in the financing of Stage
I of the Seyhan irrigation project, as therein described;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association
and the International Bank for Reconstruction and De-
velopment (hereinafter called the Bank) to assist in the
financing of Stage II of such Project; and
WJIEREAS the Association and the Bank have agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in vari-
ous currencies equivalent to twenty-four million dollars
($24,000,000) to assist in such financing in the form of a
development credit in various currencies equivalent to
twelve million dollars ($12,000,000) granted by the Asso-
ciation and a loan in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million dollars ($12,000,000) made by the Bank (herein-
after called the Loan), on the terms and conditions set
forth hereinafter and in the loan agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the Loan Agreement)
Now   THEREFO1RE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated


﻿4
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Associa-
'ion being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
SEC"TioN 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following mean;ngs:
(a) ")SI" means Devlet Su. Isleri (State Hydraulic
Works), an agency of the Borrower under the responsi-
bility of the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
of the Borrower, and includes any successor to such agency;
(b) "Topraksu" means the agency so named and in-
cludes any successor thereto. It is concerned with soil con-
servation and farm irrigation and is an agency of the
Borrower under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Village Affairs;
(c) "Agricultural Bank" means the T. C. Zirtat Bankasi
and any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The A ssociatio agrees to lend to the Bor-
]ower, on the terms and conditiois in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twelve mn illion dollaus
($12,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withirawn from
the Credit Account as 1)rovide(l in, and stbject to the rights


﻿5
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agree-
ment and the General Conditions and in accordance with
the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant to
the provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTIWN 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitle(l to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods or services required for the Project and
to be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, as shall be required to
meet payments to be made) for expenditures in
currencies other than that of the Borrower under
contracts for civil works awarded to non-Turkish
contractors (Category III of the allocation set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement), for equip-
ment, materials and supplies (Categories I and 11)
and consultants' services (Category V) procured
from outside Turkey directly for the Project and
for training outside Turkey of personnel of the
Borrower in irrigation and land-lovelling works
and agricultural extension services in connection
with the Project (Category V)
(ii) the equivalent of 70% of the invoiced price less all
customs duties and other taxes an(d charges on im-
portation of equipment, materials and supplies
fabricated in Turkey from imported components or
raw materials and procured in Turkey for the
Project (Categories I and II);
(iii) the equivalent of 70%, of the invoiced price of im-
ported equipment, materials and supplies procured
for the Project in Turkey and not included in para-
graph (ii) above (Categories I and II);


﻿6
(iv) the equivalent of 24% of such amounts as shall have
been expended under contracts with Turkish con-
tractors awarded for works required to carry out
the Project (Category III) ; and
(v) the equivalent of 14% of such aniounts as shall have
been expended for on-farm development (Category
IV);
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of such expenditures for the works described in
paragraph (iv) above or of such expenditures described in
paragraph (v) above, the Association may by notice to
the Borrower adjust the percentage stated in such para-
graph as required in order that withdrawals of the amount
of the Credit then allocated to such works or to such
expenditures, as the case may be, and not withdrawn, con-
tinue pro rata with the expenditures remaining to be made
therefor.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made under paragraph (i) of Section 2.03 of this
Agreement on account of expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services sup-
plied from, the territories of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02
of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (3of 1 %) per annum on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.


﻿7
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 1979
and ending December 1, 2018, each installment to and in-
cluding the installment payable on December 1, 1988 to be
one-half of one per cent ( /, of 1%/o) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (11/4/ ) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this De-
velopment Credit Agreement to expeiiditures on the Proj-
ect, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall, otherwise
agree, (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procure(I on the basis of in-
ternational competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in February 1968, and
in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
+hereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
or as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such
goods and services shall be acceptable to the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit to be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Project. The specific goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit under Categories I and 11 of
the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be


﻿8
determined by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound agricultural, engineering, economic
and financial policies and practices and shall provide
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) In caryring out the Project the Borrower shall cause
to be employed by DSI and Topraksu consultants accep-
able to the Borrower and the Association. The nature and
scope of the responsibilities of such consultants and the
other terms and conditions of their employment shall be
determined in respect of each part of the Project by agree-
ment between the Borrower and the Association.
(c) The works and facilities included in the Project shall
be constructed to general design standards satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association. Upon request from time
to time by the Association, the Borrower shall promptly
cause to be furnished to the Association the plans, speci-
fications and work schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications subsequently made therein, in such
details as the Association shall request.
(d) To construct the civil works included in the Project,
the Borrower shall cause to be employed by DSI, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, qualified and experienced contractors acceptable
to the Borrower and the Association.
(e) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project, to record thv progress of the


﻿9
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect iii ac-
cordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures and availability of funds in
respect of the works and facilities included in the2 Project,
of any department or agency of the Borrower responsible
for the construction of such works and facilities or any part
thereof and shall enable the Association's representatives
to inspect the Project, the operation of the works and facili-
ties included therein, the goods and services, and any
relevaiit records anid doctunents.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the works and
facilities included in the Project to be operated and main-
tained, and to be renewed from time to time as necessary,
in accordance with sound agricultural, engineering, eco-
nomic and financial policies and practices and shall take
such action as shall be reasonably required to ensure the
economic use of the water made available by such works
for agricultural development and power generation.
SECTION 4.03. (a) In carrying out and operating the
Project or any part thereof the Borrower shall coordinate
the activities of its departments and agencies in respect
thereof in accordance with sound administrative, agricul-
tural, engineering, economic and financial policies and
practices and under experienced and competent manage-
ment, and in particular shall cause the arrangements for
coordination established for Stage I of the Seyhan irriga-
tion project to continue to function for Stage II.
(c) The Borrower shall cause DSI, Topraksu and the
Agricultural Bank to have such powers, facilities and re-
sources as are necessary for the diligent and efficient carry-
ing out and operation of the Project. Any import, ex-
change or other licenses required for the importation of
goods or the supply of services for the Project shall be
issued by the Borrower without delay.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the


﻿10
Credit will be a,complished. To that end, the Borrower and
the Association shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views through their representatives
with regard to the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition with
respect to the Project, of DSI, Topraksu and any other
agency of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out
of the Project or any part thereof, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Credit and the
maintenance of the service thereof, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit, the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds, the Project, and the administration, op-
erations and financial condition with respect to the Project,
of DSI, Topraksu and any other agency of the Borrower
responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any
part thereof. Such information shall include information
with respect to financial and economic conditions in the ter-
ritories of the Borrower and the international balance of
payments position of the Borrower.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Associa-
tion of any condition which interferes with, or threatens
to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, or the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable oppor-
tunity for accredited representatives of the Association
to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for
purposes related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.03. As part of the information to be furnished
under Section 4.04 (b) above, the Borrower shall, within
six months following the close of each fiscal year, furnish


﻿11
to the Association reports by auditors acceptable to the
Association of the operations of DSI and Topraksu in
relation to the Project.
SECTION 4.06. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.07. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registra-
tion thereof, and the Borrower shall pay all such taxes,
if any, imposed under the laws of the country or countries
in whose currency the Credit is payable or laws in effect
in the territories of such country or countries.
SECTION 4.08. Except as the Association and the Bor-
rower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes to
insure or cause to be insured the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 4.09. The Borrower shall at all times provide
or cause to be provided appropriate credit facilities in
adequate amounts, and agricultural extension and other
technical services (including veterinary and research serv-
ices), in the area of the Project, and shall cause such
facilities and services to be made available to farmers
through an adequate staff of officers trained in techniques
appropriate to the Project.


﻿12
SECTION 4.10. (a) The Borrower shall make arrange-
ments or cause arrangements to be made for the setting of
charges levied on beneficiaries of the Project at levels
which will provide revenue at least sufficient to cover all
operating and maintenance costs of the Project, and, in
addition, provide for the recovery, on reasonable terms and
conditions, of as much as practicable of the moneys in-
vested in the Project (taking into account the relation-
ship of the investment recovery rate to farmers' incentives
and capacity to pay), together with reasonable interest
thereon. Such arrangements shall be subject to periodic
review at intervals not exceeding five years.
(b) In order to obtain such information as is necessary
for formulating and adhering to a policy which will enable
the Borrower to comply with paragraph (a) above, the
Borrower shall
(i) undertake or cause to be undertaken with the assist-
ance of consultants acceptable to the Association
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the As-
sociation a study of the repayment capacity of
farmers in the areas of both Stages I and II of the
Seyhan irrigation project, which study shall take
into account such factors as the gross income that
farmers are expected to obtain with a dependable
source of water under the Project and the financial
incentives that will be necessary to ensure intensive
cultivation; and
(ii) within two years from the (late of this Agreement,
submit such study to the Association and discuss
with the Association the effect to be given to the
recommendations of the study.
SECTION 4.11. The Borrower shall take all such actions
as shall be necessary to provide adequate farm-to-market
roads within the Project area, to promote improved ar-
rangements for marketing of crops and livestock and to im-
prove market research services.


﻿13
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the As,,ociation
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal
of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable im-
mediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with
such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an ad-
ditional condition to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions, namely, that the consultants
referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this De-
veloment Credit Agreement have been retained on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
SECTION 6.02. If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not come into force and effect by May 29, 1969, this
Development Credit Agreement and all obligations here-
under shall terminate, unless the Association, after con-
sideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later
date for the purposes of this Section. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later (late.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SEcTION 7.01. The Closing Date for withdrawals from
the Credit Account shall be June 30, 1975 or such later


﻿14
date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu
ve Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Toskilati Genel Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
Maliye
Hazine
Ankara
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SECTION 7.03. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿15
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By  /s/ AHMET TUFAN GUL
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   ,Is/ SmION ALDEWERELD
Vice President


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit and of Loan
Maximum Amounts Expressed
Category                     in U. S. Dollar Equivalent
I. DSI-Equipment, Materials and
Supplies                        2,500,000
II. Topraksu-Equipment, Materials
and Supplies                    6,300,000
III. Civil Works                       9,100,000
IV. On-farm Development                1,200,000
V. Consultants' Services; Train-
ing outside Turkey of per-
sonnel of the Borrower            900,000
VI. Interest and other charges on
the Loan                        2,000,000
VII. Unallocated                       2,000,000
TOTAL                      24,000,000
Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit
1. The amount of the Credit shall be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided under Article II of this Agree-
ment, and shall be applied to expenditures under (ate-
gories I to V of this Schedule, until the total of withdrawals
and commitments shall have reached the equivalent of
$12,000,000.
Allocation of Proceeds of the Loan
2. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account as provided under Article II of the Loan
Agreement. Withdrawals from the Loan Account under any
of the Categories I through V of this Schedule shall be
made only after the proceeds of the Credit shall have been
fully withdrawn or committed.
0


﻿17
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
3. If the estimate of the cost of items under any of
Categories I through V shall decrease, the amount then
allocated to, and no longer required for, such Category
will be reallocated by the Association and the Bank to
Category VII.
4. If the estimate of the cost of such items shall increase,
the Association and the Bank will, at the request of the
Borrower, reallocate from Category VII to the appropriate
Category an amount equivalent, in the case of Categories
I, II and V, to the portion, if any, of such increase to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and in the case
of Categories III and IV, an amount calculated by applying
to such increase the percentage stipulated for the respec-
tive Category in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, subject,
however, to the requirements, as determined by the Asso-
ciation and the Bank, for contingencies in respect of the
cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿188
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The Project is Stagc II of the Plan of the Borrower for
irrigation, drainage and on-farm development in the Adana
Plain and consists in the irrigation and drainage of about
39,250 hectares and on-farm development of about 48,250
irrigable hectares, the formulation and implementation of
a five-year extension program, the provision of agricultural
credit and the undertaking of a study on water charges.
The Project includes:
A. Irrigation and Drainage Works
The construction, from designs and under the super-
vision of consultants, of (1) new headworks at Seyhan
Reservoir to serve Units 2TP and 3YP, (2) canals, drains
and gravity irrigation distribution systems to serve about
39,250 hectares in Units 1TP, 2TP, "TP, 2YP anl YP
and (3) related operational and maintenance facilities;
B. On-Farm iDerelopment
On-farm development under the supervisio1 of con-
sultants of about 48,250 hectares (including aboat 9,000
hectares provided with irrigation and drainage facilities in
Stage 1 of the Plan), consisting in (1) land-levelling, (2)
installation of on-farm tile drainage systems, (3) excava-
tion of surface drains and (4) construction of feeder roads;
(. Pipe Plant
The construction and equipment of a plant for the
production of the concrete pipe required for the irrigation
works included in A above; and


﻿19
D. Training
The training outside of Turkey in irrigation and
land-levelling works and in agricultural extension services
of personnel of the Borrower, in connection with A and
B above.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1975.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. Services procured to carry out on-farm development
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under
Category IV of Schedule 1 need not be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
2. With respect to any contract involving expenditures
equivalent to $100,000 or less in the case of civil works or
$25,000 or less in the case of purchases of machinery, equip-
ment or materials, copies of all tender documents, including
the evaluation reports, and of the executed contract shall
be sent to the Association promptly after the execution of
any such contract and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect thereof.
3. For all other contracts, the procedure outlined below
will be followed:
a. Tenders for civil works inviting international com-
petitive bidding will be issied in amounts, no less than
$3 million, large enough to interest foreign construction
fit-rms. Separate schedules may be used within each tender
iving bi(l(lers the right to bid on one or any combination
of schedules.
b. Potential bidders for civil works will be prequalified
by a special board set up for this purpose by DSI. A de-
scription of the prequalification procedure, a list of pre-
qualified bidders and the recommendations and comments
of the consultants will be submitted to the Association for
approval.
c. A copy of the invitations to bid, draft forms of con-
tract, specifications and all other bidding documents, to-
gether with a complete description of the international
advertising procedures to be used will be submitted to the
Association for its review and approval before the invita-
tions are issued.


﻿21
d. After bids have been received and analyzed, a copy of
the analysis of bids together with the recommendations of
the consulting engineer and the proposals of DSI or
Topraksu for the award, stating the reasons for such pro-
posals, will be submitted to the Association for its review
and approval prior to the award of the contract or the
issuance of a letter of intent.
e. If the proposed final contract is to differ substantially
from the terms and conditions contained in the respective
documents approved by the Association under b, c and d
above, then a copy of the text of the proposed changes will
be submitted to the Association for its review and approval
prior to the signature of the contract.
f. Promptly after the signature of each contract, two
conformed copies thereof will be transmitted to the Asso-
ciation.
g. If during the term of any contract there is any change
or addition which is in excess of 10%/< of the original value
of the contract, the Association will be promptly advised.
4. Where bids are submitted by Turkish suppliers of
machinery, equipment or materials, the following rules
shall be observed for the purpose of comparing any such
bid to any competing bid of a foreign supplier:
a. All customs duties and similar levies shall first be
deducted from the total of such foreign bid;
b. The portion of such foreign bid representing the
C.I.F. landed price of the goods shall then be increased
by 15/ thereof or the actual rate of such duties and levies,
whichever is lower;
c. The resulting figure plus the portion of such foreign
bid representing inland freight, insurance and other costs
of delivery of the goods to the site of use in the Project,
shall be deemed to be the delivered price of the imported
goods;


﻿22
d. If the ex-factory price of the goods offered by the
competing Turkish bidder (after deduction therefrom of
any customs duties and similar levies on such goods to be
borne by such bidder) plus inland freight, insurance and
other costs of delivery to the site of use in the Project, is
equal to or lower than the delivered price of the imported
goods arrived at under c above, and other terms and con-
ditions are satisfactory, then the Turkish bid may be con-
sidered the lowest evaluated bid.


