Lo AAJ 6q - (dAj
i     COPY                               RESTRICTED
Report No. PTR-55
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
NIGERIA
April 28, 1970
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents:
Currency Unit          - Nigerian Pound (NE)
NE 1                    US$2.80
US$1                   - NW.357
NE1,000,000            a US$2,800,000
Fiscal Year: April 1 to March 31
Weights and Measures:  British/US
British/US               Metric
1 mile (mi)           =  1.61 kilometers (km)
1 foot (ft)              0.305 meters (a)
1 ton                 -  1,016 kilograms (kg)
Abbreviations and Acronym
KAMPSAX        - Kampmann, Kierulff and Saxild A/S
NEDECO         - Netherlands Engineering Consultants
NRC            - Nigerian Railway Corporation
NPA            - Nigerian Port Authority
UNDP           - United Nations Development Programwe



NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF A TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................i - ii
1.  INTRODUCTION        ......................................
2.  BACKGROUND ........................................         2
A.   Economic Setting ......   ....................        2
B.  The Transport Sector . ..................... ...       3
Ports   ..............................           3
River Navigation ..      ......................  4
Railways .....................                   5
Air Transport ..................                5
Roads and Road Transport ................        5
C.   Post-War Transport Problems .....     .............   6
3. THE PROJECT.7
A.   The Rehabilitation Program     .       .              7
B.   Technical Assistance 7      .....      ....           7
C.   Project Description     . ..............              8
Ports....   9
Railways ....   9
Roads   ...                                     10
D. Local Cost Financing ..10
E.  Procurement and Disbursement       .     .11
F. Execution .....11
4.   JUSTIFICATION      ..................... .... .............  13
5.   RECOMMENDATIONS        ...................................  14
ANNEX 1 - Tentatively Proposed Items for Bank Financing
ANNEX 2 - Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
MAP     -  Nigeria:  Transport Rehabilitation Project
This report was written by Mr. H.J. Van Helden and was edited by Miss J.
Murphy.






N`GERIA
APPRAISAL OF A TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUlJMAAY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Now that the civil war iru Nigeria has come to an end, the Gov-
ernment is faced with the difficult task of bringing conditions back to
normal as soon as possible. In addition to administrative and relief
meastures, thia task involves extensive rehabilitation, largely, but not
exclusively, in the eastern States.
ii.       It is too early to expect a complete inventory of the effects
of three years of war in either thQ public or private sector, or cost
estimates for their repair. But the amount 4  stizeable, possibly of the
order of NE 100 million (US$280 million equivalent). The Government man-
aged to finance its military expenditures without entering into large
foreign debts. But reserves have been depleted, and the Government is
now looking for both multilateral and bilateral assistance in the financ-
ing of its rehabilitation. The Government has asked the Bank to finance
part of its cost, in an amount of US$25 million equivalent, to cover broad
categories of expenditure for the transport sector. It has requested a
Bank commitment as soon as possible, not only because the reconstruction
of the country's infrastructure is urgent, but also to enable it to nego-
tiate further bilateral financing assistance from countries which have
shown interest in doing so.
iii.      The Government's rehabilitation program may be broadly divided
into three phases: a first phase of emergency repairs, much of it of a
temporary nature; a second phase for permanent rehabilitation of those
facilities for which the need is obvious, and for which no further studies
are needed; and a third phase for longer term rehabilitation projects
which require further studies. The first phase is already in progress,
partly with the help of the military forces; the works, which are not
suitable for Bank financing, are being financed by the Government's own
resources and some foreign aid. The Government has requested Bank fi-
nancing for part of its second phase rehabilitation program.
iv.       Under the project, part of the transportation system will be
rehabilitated. The project includes the purchase of urgently needed
equipment and materials for the ports and the railways, and the rehabil-
itation by contractors of trunk roads throughout the country. The ur-
gency of the situation has not allowed the usual detailed appraisal of
the project. However, technical assistance from consultants, to be fi-
nanced under the project or from bilateral sources, will be available
to the agencies responsible for the ports, railways and roads. Before
disbursements are made, the consultants will review the numbers and
specifications of equipment and materials, and the road rehabilitation
works to be financed from the loan.



- i.i -
v.        The major bottleneck in the transportation sector is conges-
tion in the country's main port, Lagos, where conditions have become
untenable. In early March, average waiting time for ships was 23 days
and still increasing; about 30 ships were waiting for berths. The U.S.
Shipping Freight Conference increased its surcharge on shipping rates
from 10% to 20% as of March 1, and the Continental and U.K. Conferences
intend to increase rates by 12.5% by July 1, 1970. This will put a heavy
additional burden on the country's economy. The main cause of congestion
is the fact that the country's second largest port, Port Harcourt, cannot
be used. Its road and rail connections with the hinterland are still
disrupted, and the sheds and warehouses need repair. In addition, there
is a staff problem since, as a result of the war, most of the experienced
supervisory personnel and labor have left and have not yet returned.
vi.       The proposed project would make possible the reopening of Port
Harcourt and its rail connections with the hinterland. The works needed
to re-establish the road connection are widely scattered and do not lend
themselves well to Bank financing. These road works will be financed by
the Government and will be carried out by Government forces. A number
of other roads, which have suffered severely from over-loaded trucks
and lack of maintenance are included in the project.
vii.      It is proposed to finance foreign exchange costs of (a) port
cargo handling equipment and spare parts for all ports; (b) repair of
sheds and warehouses in Port Harcourt; (c) six locomotives, 800 wagons
and NE 1 million (US$2.8 million equivalent) worth of track materials
for the railways; (d) road and bridge rehabilitation by contractors,
covering some 400 miles of trunk roads, and (e) consulting services for
road works. Consultants will review the need for, and standards and
specifications of, individual items to be financed from the Bank loan.
Because of this, and also because it is as yet not known which other items
of the rehabilitation program will eventually be financed bilaterally,
the proposed project to be financed is a tentative one, to be adjusted
when more information becomes available from the Government, from the
Nigerian Port Authority, from the Nigerian Railway Corporation and from
the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, all assisted by their con-
sultants.
viii.     The loan is to be made to the Government.  The responsible
agencies are able to execute the project, with the technical assistance
available to them.
ix.       While it is not feasible to calculate the economic return on
the investment for each item, experience shows that the returns on such
rehabilitation works are very high. The proposed project is urgently
needed and provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$25 million
equivalent for 14 years including a grace period of four years.



NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF A TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria has asKed
the Bank's help in financing the rehabilitation of rhe Nigerian economy
following the recent civil war. A Bank mission visited Nigeria from
March 1-7, 1970, and was presented a list of items which are urgently
needed for part of the post-war rehabilitation program. Total cost of
the items amounted to about US$58 million equivalent, with a foreign
exchange component of US$48 million. The Government asked the Bank to
finance about half of the latter, or US$25 million. The balance is ex-
pected to be financed bilaterally.
1.02      A Bank loan of US$25 million equivalent to the Federal. Republic
of Nigeria is proposed to cover broad categories of expenditures which,
taken together, will contribute to the rehabilitation of the transporta-
tion system in general, and, in particular, will relieve the present
seriously congested conditions in the port of Lagos by reactivating the
country's second largest port, Port Harcourt, and other small ports, in-
cluding their rail and road connections with the hinterland. An ac-
celerated procedure is proposed, not only because by their nature re-
habilitation and reconstruction call for quick action, but also because
the Government will be able to conclude negotiations for bilateral fi-
nancing only after the Bank commitment is firm.
1.03      The items which make up the proposed project will remain flexi-
ble, to be defined further as more information becomes available. The
various agencies which will use the proceeds of the loan will provide
more details before the Bank commits itself to finance any particular
item in the project. Disbursement requests will be supported by consul-
tants who are already in the field or who will be retained shortly. Thia
flexibility in the proposed project is also desirable to allow substitu-
tion of some items if bilateral financing on reasonable terms could be
found for them.
1.04      For many years, the Bank has been involved in the preparation
and financing of transportation projects in Nigeria, and it has consider-
able knowledge of the country's transportation system. Five loans and
one credit, totalling US$99.6 million, have been made for transport proj-
ects: a US$28 million loan for the railways in 1958 (193-UNI); a US$13.5
million loan for four new berths in the port of Lagos in 1965 (326-UNI);
two loans (426-UNI and 427-UNI) and a credit (73-UNI) totalling US$47.5
million for roads in 1965; and a US$10.6 million loan (640-UNI) for road
rehabilitation in 1969. The Bank has been involved in various feasi-
bility and final engineering studies, either through its own loans or
as executing agency for UNDP-financed studies. Two studies are partic-
ularly important: (a) a survey of the Nigerian road system completed in
1967 by the Danish consultants, KAMPSAX, and financed by the UNDP with the



- 2 -
Bank as executing agency (the KAMPSAX report); and (b) a survey of roads
in northern Nigeria by the British consultants, Scott, Wilson and
Kirkpatrick, and financed by the Bank under Loan 426-UNI, completed in
1969 (the Scott Wilson report).
1.05      Performance by the Government agencies responsible for the
above loans has not always been satisfactory. Difficulties with con-
tractors delayed the construction of the railway extension which was
part of the project financed by the 1958 loan, and management and opera-
tions of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) have deteriorated since
the departure of a large contingent of expatriate staff. The construc-
tion of the Apapa Road, financed by Loan 426-UNI, has been delayed be-
cause the original design, prepared by the Federal Ministry of Works
and Housing was found to be inadequate when reviewed by consultants after
the contract was awarded. The project had to be redesigned and will not
be completed before 1972. Unit prices for the revised work have recently
been agreed upon, and costs will be higher than originally estimated. In
general, the performance of the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA) has been
satisfactory.
1.06      The Government recognizes the need for strengthening the various
agencies responsible for the transport sector. Highway consultants have
been helping the highway department for several years, and even before
the mission arrived, the Government was seeking to arrange technical as-
sistance for the railways and the ports; it also intends to establish,
with the help of consultants, a permanent transport coordination section
within the Ministry of Transport.
1.07      This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which
visited Nigeria from March 1-7, 1970. The mission consisted of Messrs.
Chaufournier, Burney and Povey, of the Western Africa Department; and
Mr. Van Helden, of the Transportation Projects Department and author of
this report. The report was edited by Miss Murphy.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Nigeria, the most populous of all African nations, covers an
area of 357,000 sq mi, slightly less than the combined area of France
and Spain (see map). Rectangular in shape, the country has average di-
mensions of about 600 miles both north-south and east-west. It is border-
ed on the west and north by the Republics of Dahomey and Niger, and on
the east by the Republics of Chad and Cameroon. The Gulf of Guinea serves
as its southern border, and Nigeria's ports have long been an important
feature of its economy. Reliable demographic data are not available;
population estimates vary between 51-60 million (143-167 per sq mi).



- 3 -
2.02      The country has recently emerged from a civil war of several
years duration. In an attempt to provide a constitutional structure
more responsive to the socio-political situation, a new constitution
was promulgated in April 1968, replacing the former three Regions 'y
12 Federal States. Now that the civil war is over, division of respon-
sibilities between Federal and State Governments is being reviewed again,
and this may eventually result in another revision of the constitution.
2.03      Economic growth, which proceeded at an annual rate of about
4% in real terms between 1960 and 1966, slowed down in 1967 and came
virtually to a halt in 1968. The factors contributing to this situa-
tion have been (i) important losses of production in the war zone, not
only of export commodities such as petroleum and palm produce but also
of locally consumed foods; (ii) the interruption of transport and trade
between the war zone in the east and the rest of the country; and (lii)
the decline of both private and public investment. On the other hand,
production outside the war zone continued uninterrupted. Agriculture
has supplied the country (outside the east) with almost all its food
requirements and has continued to be the principal source of exports.
Manufacturing, after a sharp decline during the second half of 1967,
expanded rapidly in 1968. Petroleum operations were interrupted but
have now been resumed on an even larger scale than before the war.
There is evidence that economic growth resumed in 1969, but figures
are not yet available.
B.   The Transport Sector
2.04      While military action was confined for most of the time to
small areas east of the Niger and south of the Benue Rivers, the trans-
port sector throughout the Federation has been seriously affected di-
rectly and indirectly by the war. Port Harcourt was closed at an early
stage and remains closed. The eastern line of the NRC is located in
what was the war zone and its bridges have been demolished. Navigation
on the rivers Niger and Benue was interrupted, and severe damage was
inflicted on roads and bridges, not only in the east but also elsewhere.
All export and import traffic, especially groundnuts from the north, had
to be moved through Western Nigeria, causing considerable congestion on
the existing facilities. The western railway line was not able to satisfy
all the demand for transport services, and a great deal of traffic was
diverted to roads with inadequate standards to carry the greatly in-
creased number of heavy trucks. During the 1968 rainy season, road
traffic almost ceased on the southern sections of the country's major
trunk road (A-1) between Kano in the north and the main port at Lagos.
Ports
2.05      Nigeria has two major seaports, Lagos and Port Harcourt, with
14 and 8 berths, respectively (plus two customs berths in the center of
Lagos which handle little traffic). Together, these two ports normally
handle about 85% of all ocean-going trade (except oil), and serve all
parts of the country. Roads and railroads connect both ports with their



- 4 -
hinterlands. The east and the northeast are predominantly served by Port
Harcourt which handled about 1.5 million tons in 1965/66; Lagos, which
handled over 4 million tons in the same year, serves the other areas.
Special commodities and certain local areas are served by a number of
smaller ports, which together handled about 1 million tons. The most
important of these are Burutu and Warri in the Niger River delta, the
terminals for river navigation on the Niger and Benue.
2.06      This pattern of port traffic was disrupted during the war.  Port
Harcourt ceased to operate; activities in most of the river ports were
severely hampered and, at times, brought to a complete standstill. Lagos
was called upon to carry nearly all foreign trade. In addition to mili-
tary and relief supplies, it handled all groundnut exports. It also be-
came, once again, the main entry point for refined petroleum products for
the whole country, thus reversing the oil supply routes for large parts
of Nigeria, which, after the opening of a refinery in Port Harcourt in
1966, had been served directly from the refinery by rail and road.
2.07      The most serious bottleneck is the congestion in the port of
Lagos where the situation is further aggravated by (a) the arrival of
relief goods, part of which cannot yet be transported to their destina-
tions, and (b) the decision in 1969 to prohibit all non-essential imports,
including those already on the high seas, which were therefore held by
customs. Sheds are now filled, a fact which, together with the shortage
of equipment and skilled labor, prevents the normal flow of goods through
the port. The situation has become intolerable. At the time of the mis-
sion, waiting time for ships was 23 days and still growing; some 30 ships
were waiting for berths. The U.S. Shipping Conference, as of March 1,
increased its surcharge from 10% to 20%, and the U.K. and Continental
Conferences intend to increase rates by 12.5% by July 1, 1970. This will
put a heavy additional burden on the country's economy. The Government
has passed an emergency decree to remove some of the administrative bottle-
necks. This should improve somewhat the situation in Lagos. But it should
be kept in mind that even if efficient port operations were restored, there
would still be a need for other ports and, indeed, for an expansion of
Lagos itself. Although a scheme for such an expansion was prepared some
years ago, its execution was delayed by the war. The scheme would take
several years to carry out and thus the most effective way of relieving
the situation is to reactivate Port Harcourt, with its eight berths,
and to reopen Port Harcourt's connections with its hinterland.
River Navigation
2.08      River navigation stopped on the Niger and Benue, which together
carried about 325,000 tons in 1961/62. The future role that river navi-
gation will play in the transport sector will depend on improved water
regulation between Lokoja and Jebba, resulting from the Bank-financed
Kainji Dam on the Niger River. Due to changes in the patterns of both
produce buying and import and export trade, river fleets are no longer
considered an attractive investment, and companies, even under normal
conditions, are reluctant to invest in modernization. Any attempt to



revitalize inland navigation, which could be a major factor in moving
produce from the north, has, therefore, to be accompanied by a new ap-
proach in the operation of the river fleets. Creation of a new company,
to be owned jointly by the three largest trading companies previously
using river transport, is presently under consideration.
ARailways
2.09      'rhe NRC has suffered severely from the crisis.  About 6,000
trained employees left the service of the Corporation and returned to
the east. All indicators point to a considerable reduction in efficiency
of equipment operation and maintenance. The closed eastern line is damaged
in many places. Some 60 locomotives and 1,150 freight cars are isolated
in the east. Most will need extensive repair and some will have to be
scrapped.
2.10      In an effort to concentrate all resources on produce evacuation
from the north, the NRC has seriously neglected other traffic. Whereas
import and export traffic remained steady, the volume of internal traffic
handled by the railway dropped by almost two-thirds over the past two
years. The railway's inability to handle all traffic offered has serious-
ly affected its financial situation, and has put a heavy strain on the
principal north-south road of the country from Lagos to Kano and beyond.
Air Transport
2.11      Damage to airports has been limited.  The eastern airports were
closed but most have been reopened for civil operations since the second
half of 1968. Only Enugu is still closed to commercial traffic.
2.12      Nigerian Airways, already in a difficult financial position
before the civil war, suffered losses in freight and passenger traffic,
especially domestic. Passenger-km on domestic flights dropped by over
40% in 1967. Since late 1968, however, service has resumed between Lagos
and major administrative and economic centers of the country.
Roads and Road Transport
2.13      Road transport in Nigeria has developed rapidly since the early
1950s. This is illustrated by the volume of trucking to and from the
port of Lagos, which grew from 0.2 million tons in 1955 to 1.4 million
tons in 1967/68, increasing its share from 16% to about 60% of all move-
ments to and from the port.
-2.14      Little information is available on the development and per-
formance of the road transport industry over the last two years. There
is, however, ample evidence that it has continued to enlarge its share
of the total transport volume, largely because of the reduction in rail-
way operations. The shipments of groundnuts by road from the north to
Lagos have greatly increased, and large quantities of general cargo and
petroleum products have shifted to the roads.



-6-
2.15      As a result of this greatly increased traffic, damage to roads
goes beyond destruction inflicted by direct military action, and may be
roughly distinguished as follows:
(a) Damage in the war areas of the east. The losses have not
yet been thoroughly assessed, but they are expected to be
substantial as a result of blown up bridges and so-called
"dug outs" (sections of a few hundred yards where embank-
ments were removed to halt or slow down military transports).
Reports indicate, however, that the paving of the remaining
sections is in reasonably good shape since the above destruc-
tion prevented further use.
(b) Destruction of, or damage to, ten bridges on roads A-6 and
A-9 which connect Lagos and Ibadan with the east via Benin.
The most significant damage is to the 0.9 mile long bridge
over the river Niger at Onitsha, where two spans were
destroyed; a German-financed temporary bridge was opened
to traffic by the end of March 1970.
(c) Deterioration of roads outside the war area, in particular
road A-1 from Lagos to Kano. These roads suffered from the
coincidence of an unprecedented high volume of heavy traffic
and general lack of maintenance. Long sections have reverted
to little more than tracks.
C.   Post-War Transport Problems
2.16      The main problems facing the transportation system may be broadly
summarized as follows:
(a) Port Harcourt, which, before the war, carried about 23% of
the country's ocean-going trade (excluding oil), is still
out of use;
(b) the eastern line of the railways leading to Port Harcourt is
unuseable because of damaged bridges, and track connecting
the western and eastern lines needs extensive repair;
(c) about 20% of the railway's rolling stock and motive power,
still confined to the east, is out of commission and will
either have to be scrapped or given extensive repair;
(d) many roads in the eastern region are impassable because of
destroyed or damaged bridges and the "dug outs" in road
embankments;
(e) only about 10% of river transport to the delta ports has
resumed, partly because of the neglect of river conservancy
services;



- 7 -
(f) the port of Lagos, which before the war handled about 63% of
all ocean-going trade, is now the only port outlet and is
heavily congested;
(g) the already poor road between tne north and the port of
Lagos is now little more than a track in places and is
continuing to deteriorate because of its extensive use;
(h) the NRC and NPA suffer from a shortage of skilled labor
and supervisory personnel, many of whom fled to the eastern
states and have not yet returned.
3. THE PROJECT
A.   The Rehabilitation Program
3.01      The Government's rehabilitation program, both for the country as
a whole and for its transportation system, may be broadly divided into
three phases: (1) emergency repairs, many of a temporary nature, which
are being carried out by the military or other Government forces, or by
contractors, some financed through bilateral aid; (2) permanent recon-
struction for which no time-consuming studies are required and which can
therefore be carried out within the next 12 to 24 months; and (3) projects
which require further study before they can be undertaken.
3.02      It is too early to estimate the costs for the total rehabilita-
tion program or for its transportation portion; for the program as a whole,
a figure of NE 100 million has been mentioned. Moreover, the dividing
line between the various phases is not sharp, and many rehabilitation
works are for facilities which sooner or later would have needed improve-
ments anyway.
B.   Technical Assistance
3.03      The Dutch consultant firm, NEDECO, will advise the NPA on its
operations and will undertake a port development study of the four main
ports (Lagos, Port Harcourt, Warri and Calabar) and their complementary
road, rail and water transport connections with the hinterland. This
technical assistance is being financed by a grant of US$475,000 equiva-
lent from the Dutch Government. The consultants' team arrived in March
1970 and will stay in the field for periods up to seven months; 21 eco-
nomists, engineers, port operations experts and shipping experts are in-
cluded in the team, and seven advisors will supervise the study.
3.04      The Canadian Government has agreed to finance technical assis-
tance to the NRC. The Canadian National Railways will provide a 26-man
team of railway experts for assistance in day-to-day operations. The
arrangements still have to be finalized but recruiting of staff is in



- 8 -
progress. Canada will also finance a survey of the railways as a whole,
including future development, operations and management, etc.
3.05      For some years, three road consulting firms, KAMPSAX (Denmark),
Scott, Wilson and Kirkpatrick/Economic Intelligence Unit (UK), and Ove-
Arup (UK) have been involved in identification, feasibility and detailed
engineering studies, and in some cases, supervision of construction of
road projects. These firms are still active in Nigeria and the Govern-
ment's road rehabilitation program is largely based on their various
studies (see para. 3.14). For the road works included in the project,
consultants, financed by the proposed loan, would be provided to assist
the Highway Department (para. 3.15).
C.   Project Description
3.06      The proposed project forms part of the second phase of the Gov-
ernment's post-war rehabilitation program for the transport sector. In
addition to the most urgently required items which will relieve the con-
gested conditions at the port of Lagos by reactivating Port Harcourt and
the railway serving it and by increasing the handling capacity of other
ports, the project includes some longer-term road improvement works to which
the Government gives high priority (see para. 3.14). The proposed project
is a tentative one, to cover broad categories of expenditures but allowing
flexibility for adjustments. This approach has been selected because of
the urgency of the situation. The items are judged to be both needed and
justified. Before the Bank commits itself to finance specific items, how-
ever, their justification, numbers, and specifications will be reviewed
and supported by consultants. This was agreed during negotiations.
3.07      The proposed project, shown in more detail in Annex 1, is pre-
sently envisaged to include the following:
(a)  the repair of sheds and warehouses in Port Harcourt;
(b)  the purchase of cargo handling equipment and spare parts
for all ports;
(c)  the purchase of railway wagons, diesel locomotives, rails,
sleepers, track fixtures and bridge materials;
(d)  the rehabilitation of about 400 miles of trunk roads and
bridges;
(e)  the purchase of prefabricated bridges and bridge materials;
and
(f)  technical assistance by consultants.



- 9 -
Ports (US$1.4 million equivalent)
3.08      Port items have been selected for the proposed project which ap-
pear to have the highest priority. Port Harcourt has eight berths, seven
transit sheds and three warehouses. The sheds and warehouses cannot be
used because of war damage to the roofs, and an amount of NE 0.25 million
for their repair is included in the project. There is a considerable
shortage of port handling equipment in all ports, due to losses, deferred
maintenance and lack of spare parts. In addition, the ports of Warri, in
the Niger delta, and Calabar, in the extreme east, could help relieve
the congestion at Lagos if more handling equipment were available. There-
fore, an amount of Nt 0.25 million is also included for the purchase of
port handling equipment. NEDECO (para. 3.03) will assist the NPA in
deciding the items to be purchased.
Railways (US$11.2 million equivalent)
3.09      As indicated in para. 2.09, many locomotives and wagons were
immobilized during the civil war. International tender documents have
already been issued for 800 wagons, and the Government has requested
that these wagons and six diesel locomotives be included in the project
to supplement the present fleet. It is envisaged that the locomotives
will be purchased from one of the same manufacturers of locomotives as
are already in use by the railways.
3.10      There is ample scope for improving operations and reducing wagon
turnaround time, but such improvements will take time. In the meantime,
many freight wagons locked up in the east are in poor condition and a
considerable number will have to be scrapped; repair of the remainder
will take a long time, and repair shops have to be partly re-equipped
and reorganized. Between 35% and 40% of the freight wagon stock is
overage and needs replacement. Purchase of 800 wagons (about 12% of
existing wagon stock) is considered to be justified.
3.11      The total length of track in need of rehabilitation is about 300
miles: namely about 200 miles of the eastern line and about 100 miles of
the east-west connecting line. The proposed NE 1 million for track ma-
terials would allow spot repairs totalling about 30 to 35 miles of track
and bridge repair.
3.12      The Canadian technical assistance team  (para. 3.04) is to make
recommendations, among other things, on the improvement of train opera-
tions, including train speed and train weight, and on the resulting ef-
fect on axle loads, bridges and track structures, railweight, etc. The
Canadian experts will be asked to review and approve all railway items
considered for inclusion in the project. This procedure is not expected
to cause undue delay.



- 10 -
Roads (US$12.3 million equivalent)
3.13      The Government's original request was that the Bank finance an
amount of NE 2 million in foreign exchange for emergency rehabilitation
of Federal roads, and some NE 2.5 million for State roads. There can be
no doubt about the urgency of these works, which include repair of pot-
holes, dugouts and bridges, partly by replacing them with prefabricated
bridges, such as Bailey bridges. But, except for the purchase of the
bridges, these works are not suitable for Bank financing. The Government
will finance these works, carrying them out with its own forces, including
the military. Bridges are included in the proposed project.
3.14      The KAMPSAX report and the Scott Wilson report (para. 1.04) iden-
tified a number of other high priority road projects. The Government's
longer-term road rehabilitation program is based on these studies and in-
cludes a number of roads which have been severely damaged because of over-
loaded vehicles and lack of maintenance over the past strife-ridden years.
From this program the Bank has tentatively selected eight road sections
for inclusion in the project (Annex 2 and Map). Engineering of the roads
has been done by the staff of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing.
Tenders for seven of the eight road sections have already been issued, and
bids were opened in March and April 1970.
3.15      As mentioned in paras. 3.03 and 3.04, technical assistance will
be available to the NPA and the NRC for planning future developments in
the port and railway sectors and for carrying out the Government's rehabil-
itation program. These consultants will assist in the execution of the
project. Consultants acceptable to the Bank will be selected to assist
the Highway Department in the execution of road works. For these services,
an amount of NE 200,000 is included in the project. During loan negotia-
tions, the Government agreed that these consultants will review the engi-
neering and will assist in supervision of construction.
3.16      Notwithstanding its poor condition, no contracts for the rehabili-
tation of the main north-south trunk road (A-1) are included in the proposed
project. The first 200 miles north of Lagos are already included in Bank
Loan 640-UNI, made in September 1969. The remainder, although only single-
lane paved, is not in as poor condition; further studies of traffic demand
and alternative solutions have to be made. These studies are provided for
in Loan 640-UNI.
D.   Local Cost Financing
3.17      Government financing of the local costs of the project is not ex-
pected to pose a problem. Its 40% share of the cost of the selected road
rehabilitation works amounts to NE 2.6 million. No cost estimates are
available for the railway rehabilitation; its local cost may be of the
order of NE 600,000, part of which will be for the railway's permanent
labor force and thus already provided for in the railway budget. The
cost of installing materials for the repair of the sheds and warehouses



- 11 -
in Port Harcourt will be small. The rest of the project consists of im-
ported equipment, requiring hardly any local expenditure. The total local
expenditure directly reiated to the Bank project, of the order of some
NE 3.5 million, is well within the financial capacity of the Government,
which during loan negotiations confirmed that local funds will be made
available as necessary.
E.   Procurement and Disbursement
3.18      Wagons and track materials, representing 40% of the proposed proj-
ect, will be purchased on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank guidelines. For road contracts, representing
another 40%, most bids have been opened; tenders for the remaining one
will be issued in May 1970. Bidding was limited to contractors already
registered in Nigeria, among which there are many foreign firms. Trwelve
contractors collected tender documents for the road contracts:  four
Nigerian firms, four Italian firms, one German/Nigerian and one British/
Italian joint venture, and one British and one Dutch firm. The remaining
20% of the proposed project includes only small items. Because of the
desirability of standardization and speed, priced quotations for the six
locomotives and the port handling equipment will be requested from sup-
pliers of equipment already in use by the NPA and NRC; spare parts will
have to be bought from specific suppliers. Only a few firms are licensed
to manufacture Bailey bridges; roofing materials can best be bought from
the same suppliers which supplied the original material.
3.19      For purchase of equipment and materials, disbursements will be
based on their C.I.F. cost. Disbursements for consulting services will
be based on actual foreign costs. For road construction contracts, the
Government would be reimbursed 60%, which represents the approximate for-
eign component and is the same as was calculated for similar projects fi-
nanced under previous Bank loans. No retroactive financing is foreseen.
F.   Execution
3.20      The NPA, the NRC and the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
are responsible respectively for the port rehabilitation, railway rehabil-
itation, and road works.
3.21      The performance of the NPA has, in general, been satisfactory
in the past. The present difficulties encountered in the port of Lagos
are largely caused by events beyond its control. The NPA, assisted by
its consultants, should be able to carry out its part of the rehabilita-
tion program. Improvement in operations, however, will take longer since
it involves training inexperienced staff and labor to replace those who
fled to the eastern states and have not returned. Although Ibos are
allowed and even encouraged by the Government to retake their previous
positions, some positions have now been filled by less experienced staff
who cannot be dismissed. The reinstatement of key personnel in their
former positions will, in any case, take time. As an immediate solution



- 12 -
to the most pressing needs, the Government is arranging to transfer some
personnel. The Dutch consultants will advise the Port Authority on the
improvement of its operations.
3.22      The performance of the NRC has also been adversely affected by
the war conditions. However, even before the war, NRC operations were
unsatisfactory, largely because a large contingent of expatriate staff had
left its service. The additional loss of about 6,000 national staff mem-
bers at all levels has caused the management great difficulties. The
technical assistance from the Canadian National Railways should help the
NRC to make good use of the Bank loan, but it will take considerable time
before the railways are transformed into an efficient corporation.
3.23      The performance of the Highway Department within the Federal
Ministry of Works and Housing has also suffered from the loss of expatriate
staff. Considerable assistance by consultants will be needed for years
to come. However, assisted by the consultants to be provided, the Hligh-
way Department is capable of executing the road works included in the
project.
3.24      The Government is fully aware of the need for strengthening the
various transport agencies. This is confirmed by the fact that it sought,
on its own initiative, technical assistance for both the ports and the
railways, in addition to the consulting services already available to it
in the highway sector. Continuation of these services is a condition of
the Bank loan. This and the role to be played by the consultants in the
execution of the proposed project was agreed during loan negotiations.
3.25      In view of the particular nature of the project, it is not prac-
ticable at this stage, to attach specific conditions to the proposed loan
regarding administration, finances, organization and management in the
various transport entities. The studies to be carried out by the consul-
tants on the port and railway sectors (paras. 3.03 and 3.04) will deal
with these problems. For roads, the 1967 KAMPSAX Report makes specific
recommendations on the layout of the Federal and State trunk road networks,
and the administrative responsibilities for them. Since then, however,
the three regional subdivisions have been replaced by 12 States, and at
present, the Government is reviewing the various Federal and State re-
sponsibilities with a view toward allowing the States more autonomy.
KAMPSAX's recommendations will have to be reviewed in the light of these
shifts in responsibility.
3.26      No attempt has been made to analyze the financial position of
the various agencies; war conditions make recent financial results of
little relevance. In general, it may be said that the financial posi-
tion of the NPA is quite strong as a result of over-utilization of berths
and the sizeable port revenue from increasing oil exports for which only
modest expenditures are needed. The financial position of the NRC is
quite unsatisfactory; since part of its system and some of the rolling
stock could not be used, revenues fell sharply.



- 13 -
3.27      The loan would be made to the Federal Republic of Nigeria, which
would pass the funds to the particular agencies involved in the context
of the overall policy for financing of post-war rehabilitation.
4. JUSTIFICATION
4.01      It is not feasible to prepare the usual quantified economic
analysis of the project because of the lack of time and meaningful data.
Recent traffic data are not available and, in any event, would reflect
abnormal war conditions and a disturbed traffic pattern. The nature of
the works, which are for reconstructing already existing facilities,
allows only a qualitative justification on the basis of a broad judgment
of the need for them; experience shows that the return on this type of
investment is very high.
4.02      Road transport has increased sharply in recent years.  In 1955/
56, roads carried 24% of imports and 13% of exports. By 1961/62, the
share of road traffic had grown to 53% for imports and 43% for exports,
and by 1967/68, to 68% and 56% respectively. Although no figures are
available for the last two years, there is evidence that the share of
road traffic has increased still further. This proportion of road to
rail traffic is high considering the type of traffic and distance in-
volved. Most exports, for instance, are bulk commodities hauled over
distances of some 600 miles or more. If efficiently operated, railways
should be the more economic means for transporting long-haul bulk commo-
dities. By rehabilitating the railways the proposed project would enable
them to recapture part of this traffic.
4.03      Before the war Lagos handled about 4 million tons of dry cargo
or 63% of the country's ocean-going trade; Port Harcourt handled 23%,
the remainder being handled by 6 minor ports. Even taking into account
the fact that between 35% and 40% of the cargo handled in Lagos was bulk
cargo (groundnut oil, palm oil, wheat), largely handled by pipeline,
the volume of goods handled was more than the normal capacity of a port
with 14 berths. Even under normal conditions, Lagos would be close to
its saturation point. At a cost of about US$1,600 per day per waiting
ship, the total annual economic loss for an average of, say, 25 waiting
ships would be about US$15 million, which Nigeria would eventually pay
in the form of higher freight rates and surcharges if the congestion were
to continue. Although only a rough approximation, this figure indicates
the urgency of easing congestion by reactivating Port Harcourt and re-
habilitating its hinterland connections.
4.04      Port Harcourt can be reactivated with an investment in port
facilities and complementary rail connections amounting to about US$15
million equivalent, or at a cost approximately equal to what would be
the annual cost to Nigeria if the heavy congestion at Lagos were to
continue. The roads in the project are identified in the KAMPSAX and
Scott Wilson reports (para. 1.04) as present or future primary traffic



- 14 -
arteries. Some are listed as yielding high economic returns; others showed
a low return if built to high standards, and therefore lower standards have
been chosen for the rehabilitation program. Before Bank funds are committed
to financing these works, the views of consultants familiar with Nigeria's
road system will be obtained on the standards chosen and on the broad
justification of each contract. Should the justification of one or more
of the tentatively selected road projects appear dubious, there are
several other road rehabilitation and bridge projects to be undertaken
in the near future which could be substituted if a review by consultants
confirms their justification.
5. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, agreement or confirmation was obtained
from the Government on the following major matters:
(a) Before the Bank commits itself to finance specific items,
their justification, numbers and specifications will be
reviewed and supported by consultants (para. 3.06); and
(b) Consultants, acceptable to the Bank, will review the en-
gineering for the road rehabilitation works and will assist
in supervision of construction (para. 3.15).
5.02      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of USS25 million equivalent for 14 years including a four year period of
grace.
April 28, 1970



ANNEX 1
NIGERIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Tentatively Proposed Items for Bank Financing
Foreign Cost
In N 6 Millions    In UJS$ Millions
(equivalent)
Ports
Repair of sheds and warehouses in Port
Harcourt                                                0.25               0.70
Port handling equipment for all ports
and spare parts                                         0.25               0.70
Subtotal   0.5                1.40
Railways
800 freight wagons                                       2.5               r,.OO
[tails, sleepers, and other track materials
and steel girders for bridge repair.                    1.0                2.80
Six diesel locomotives                                  O                   1.140
Subtotal   4.0               11.20
Roads
Rehabilitation to various s-tandards of
400 miles of trunk roads and bridges,
total cost N-1,6.65 million, foreign
coimponent 6021                                         4.0               11.20
Purchase of prefabricated bridges, such as
Bailey bridges                                          0.2                0,56
Assistance in supervision of construction
by consultants for projects in the road
sector.                                                 0.2                0.56
Subtotal   4.4               12.32
GRAND TOTAL   8.9               24.92
Say     25.00
April 28, 1970



ANNEX 2
NIGERIA
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road and Bridge Rehabilitation
Description                     Mileage       Estimated Cost                            Remarks
(NE3 000)
3hintaku Ferry approach road        10                200            Tender documents are being prepared.  The new road
will be 34' wide over shoulders with 12? blacktop.
Shintaku - Otukpa                                                    Tenders were opened on March 114, 1970. The work
ML~  33  USC)  consists of raising the existing road level and
MO -M                            33                450            providing a new 12' wide blacktop.  The work also
A145 - M78                        33                3814           includes culvert repairs and the replacement and
M78 - M112                        314               392            reconstruction of minor 20' span bridges.
Kano - Foggo                                                         Tenders were onened on March 14, 1970. Wdork con-
sists of widening blacktop from 12' to 241',
M3 -   61, including                                            Iraising embankment, and reconstructing a large
Wudil Bridge         58              1,977           inumber of culverts.  Wudil bridge consists of
X7/100' and 1/160' spans. A new 12' wide super-
jstructure will be provided.
M61 - M118                        57              1,1424          |Tenders were opened on March 14, 1970. Works are
1same as above.
Ankna - Okaba - Oturkpo             58                7149          l Tenders were opened March 28, 1970. Work consists
of raising level and providing a new blacktop 12'
wide.
sokoja - Ikare                     90               1,055           Tenders were opened on March 28, 1970.  6iork con-
sists of scarifying existing 12' wide blacktop,
\providing a new base and a new 12' wide blacktop.
TOTAL                 373              6,631
Foreign component - 60%, N1E4,000,000 or US$11.2 million equivalent.
* Although most bids have been opened, they still have to be evaluated. Adjustments
may therefore be needed, either by elimination of an item or by adjusting the
percentage.
Acril 28, 1970



i             /              |          -    t    ~~~~~~~~~~~R E P U B L I C  O F  N I G E R                   *ulma
\ LAKE
Al  Josdi                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ku,kOWO    OUWo 
oula =odo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ar.oGubkdO 
iX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  ?4gam u                                                                  J        X      S 
\   < \                 4      Z        )                        X            &Krsrl            x-2 \         ,71~~~~~~~~~9  urnborf
O ; X \ 1 1ZUna*U 24 /X% BULU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                                                            U1 kJA  
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0 1 / N I G E R~~~ I                                                                                           AI                                                           0
7,av E ~~~~~~TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
ugOeru  i           Uahi,                                                             Tentatively selected roads
t~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                    Ports~  fdRchbi 1 gilta P on rtoga
MILES                         O&riLo (Ab    erlwgmL               3Aa                                                 l ,uihloroitycrNgaPr
BSghl of Burofra 
APPIL 197g o'RDs2C16R



