Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19146-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$20.0 MILLION AND A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 36.8 MILLION (US$50 MILLION)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
April 14, 1999
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1998)
Currency Unit = Renminbi (Y)
Y i.00 = US$0.12
US$1 = Y8.30
FISCAL YEAR
Januarv A - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AusAID            Australian Agency for International Development
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CERNET            China Education and Research Net
CIDA              Canadian International Development Agency
COSU              Central Operations Services Unit
DO                Development Objective
EASHD             East Asia Sector Unit, Human Development (World Bank)
EU                European Union
FILO              Foreign Investment Loan Office
FILO/MOE          Foreign Investment Loan Office of Ministry of Education
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GOC               Government of China
HEAP              Higher Education Advisory Panel
H DNED            Human Development Network, Education Sector (World Bank)
IBRD              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               International Development Agency
IDF               Institutional Development Fund
IP               Implementation Progress
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
LCHSD             Latin America & Caribbean Region, Human Sector Development (World Bank)
LCC3C             Latin American and Caribbean Countries, Department 3 (World Bank)
MBDs              Model Bidding Documents
MEIAO             Mechanical and Electrical Equipment (State Import and Export Office for)
MIS               Management Information System
MOE               Ministry of Education
MOF               Ministry of Finance
MTR               Mid-term Review
NCB               National Competitive Bidding
NGOs              Non-governmental Organizations
OP/BP             Operations Policy/Bank Policy
PCR               Project Completion Report
P1O               Project Implementation Office
PIP               Project Implementation Plan
PMR               Project Management Report
RMC               Resident Mission, China
TOR               Terms of Reference
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
UNESCO            United Nations Education, Scientific, and Cultural Organization
Vice President                 Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director                    Yukon Huang
Sector Manager                       Alan Ruby
Task Team Leader                    Hena Mukherjee



China
Higher Education Reform Project
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective(s) ................................................................2
1.  Project development objective  and  key  performance  indicators ........................................................ 2
B.   Strategic  Context ................................................................2
1.  Sector-related  CAS  goal supported  by the project ....................................2...........................2
2.  Main  sector issues and  Government strategy .....................                                            ..........................................2
3.  Sector issues to  be addressed  by  the Project and  strategic  choices .....................................                                     ...............4
C.  Project Description Summary ................................................................6
1. Project components ...............................................................6
2.  Key  policy  and  institutional reforms supported  by  the Project .......................................................... 7
3.  Target population  and  benefits ................................................................7
4.  Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ...........................                                           .....................................8
D.  Project Rationale ................................................................                                                                                   10
1.  Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection ..............................................................   10
2. Major related projects financed by the World Bank and/or development agencies ......................... 12
3.  Lessons learned  and  reflected  in  proposed  project design .............................................................. 14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..............................................................                                                  16
5.  Value added  of Bank  support in  this project .....................                                         ......................................... 17
E. Summary Project Analysis ..............................................................                                                                               18
1. Economic ...............................................................                                                                                       18
2. Financial .............................................................. 18
3. Technical ............................................................... 18
4. Institutional ..............................................................                                                                                    18
5. Social ..............................................................                                                                                           19
6. Environmental ...............................................................                                                                                   19
7.  Participatory  Approach  .............................................................. 20
F. Sustainability and Risks ..............................................................                                                                               20
1. Sustainability ..............................................................                                                                                  20
2. Critical Risks ..............................................................                                                                                  21
G. Main Loan Conditions ...............................................................                                                                                  21
H. Readiness for Implementation ..............................................................                                                                           22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .............................................................. 22
Appendix  A    Criteria for Selection  of Project Institutions ..........................................                                        ..................... 23
Appendix  B   Project Universities and  Partner Institutions ..............................................................                                              24



Tables ....................................................Page
Table  1. Completed  World  Bank Projects with  IP  and  DO  Ratings ...............................................                                        13
Table 2. China: Support from Development Agencies ...............................................                                                          14
Annexes
Annex I Project Design Summary ..................................................                                                                                 26
Appendix 1.1: Project Performance Indicators for UPs ..................................................                                                    28
Appendix  1.2:  Project Performance Indicatbrs for PU  Laboratories .................................................. 29
Appendix  1.3:  Project Performance Indicators for PIs ...................................................                                                 30
Appendix 1.4: Project Performance Indicators for NTA ..................................................                                                    31
Annex 2  Detailed Project Description ...................................................                                                                         32
Annex 3  Estimated Project Costs ..................................................                                                                               44
Annex 4  Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................                                                                       45
Annex 5  Financial Summary ..................................................                                                                                     61
Annex 6  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ..................................................                                                             62
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ...................................................                                                     64
Table B:  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and  Prior Review  ...................................................   65
Table C: Allocation of Loan and Credits Proceeds ..................................................                                                        66
Annex 7  Evaluation of Project Financial Management System ...................................................                                                     67
Annex 8  Organizational Chart ..................................................                                                                                  69
Annex 9  Documents in the Project File ..................................................                                                                        70
Annex 10 Project Processing Budget and Schedule ...................................................                                                               71
Annex 11 Status of Bank Group Operations in China ..................................................                                                              72
Annex 12 Country at a glance ..................................................                                                                                   75
Annex 13 Summary Education Profile: China ................................................... 77
Map IDA/IBRD No.



CHINA
Higher Education Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Education Sector Unit
Date: February 15, 1999                                      Task Team Leader: Hena Mukherjee
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang                        Sector Manager: Alan Ruby
Project ID: 46051             Sector: Education              Program Objective Category: EA
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Loan (IDA-IBRD blend)  Program of Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [x] No
Project Financing Data                               [x]  Loan   [xl  Credit  [   Guarantee   []  Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
mount (US$M/SDR M): IBRD Loan US$20 million/Credit US$50 million equivalent
Proposed items:                                    [ ] Multicurrency     [x] Single currency, specify, US Dollar
[x] Standard Variable   [ ] Fixed         [x] LIBOR-based
IBRD Loan          IDA Credit
Grace period (years): 5               10
Years to Maturity: 20               35
Commitment fee:                    0.5%
Contractual rate: 0.75%
Service charge: --               0.75%
Front-end Fee: 1.0%
Financing plan (US$M):
Source                                     Local           Foreign        Total
Government
Participating institutions  34.0             0.0          34.0
IBRD        11.3             8.7          20.0
IDA       12.4             37.6          50.0
Total      57.7             46.3          104.0
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Education
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):            1999         2000        2001        2002      2003   2004
Annual        1.0         30.0        30.0         5.0       3.0    1.0
Cumulative        1.0         31.0        61.0       66.0       69.0   70.0
Project implementation period: Five years    Expected effectiveness date: September 1999   Expected closing date: July 2005



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators:
Project Development Objective. The principal objective of the Project is to improve the quality and relevance of
undergraduate basic science and engineering programs through integrated reform activities in curriculum and
teaching methodology.
While project investments would be made primarily at first and second year levels, they would provide the impetus
for embedding reforms across all four years of undergraduate science and engineering programs. The Project would
focus on reforms in curriculum and teaching methodology, and by strengthening planning and management at
institutional and central, Ministry of Education (MOE) levels, would improve capacity to implement reforms in
teaching and learning. The reforms would assist the Chinese government in implementing much needed changes at
the first and second year undergraduate basic science and engineering levels with the aim of keeping abreast with the
accelerating speed of knowledge generation and technology development. Project reforms would be consistent with
national efforts to speed up transformation from a planned economy to a market economy and, if successful, provide
important and closely-monitored models of change for China's vast higher education sub-sector. Competitive
selection processes, a new concept in the area of centrally-organized curriculum development in China, would be
introduced in one sub-component. The 28 project universities themselves have each identified at least one weak-
performing partner university (although one project university has four), disadvantaged by scarce financial and
human resources or by location in a poor area, and have jointly developed collaborative programs to be undertaken
under the Project. The total number of partner institutions would be at least 31. These partner institutions are
integral to the Project design and content. They would extend the Project's impact substantially and help to reduce
existing professional and technical disparities between universities.
Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1): Key performance indicators have been developed for the purposes of
(1) monitoring anticipated Project outputs during the project period and their impact on project beneficiaries; and (2)
continuous monitoring of quality during and beyond the project period. These indicators have been discussed with
and found acceptable by MOE, Project universities and the Bank. Four prototype tables to be used by Project
Institutions and MOE to monitor progress of activities are appended to Annex 1. These are to be used by Project
Universities (Appendices 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3) and MOE (Appendix 1.4). Project institutions have provided planned
targets for the years 1999, 2002, and 2004 for the purpose of guiding and monitoring implementation. These target
figures are available in the Project Files.
B:  Strategic Context
1.  Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project:
CAS document No. R98-107               Date of CAS discussions: May 6, 1998
China's economy is one of the fastest growing in the world. The CAS (China: Country Assistance Stratregy Progress
Report: R98-107 dated May 6, 1998) recommends that an area which needs to be addressed is increased training in
those skills necessary to accelerate China's entry into the 21st century's information-based economy (page 5. para.
22). The Project directly responds to the CAS recommendation. The proposed reforms to be implemented through
the Project have been designed to ensure that university training in science and engineering results in a better fit with
the rapid technology-based changes in the economy and labor market.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background. The first wave of higher education reform came in the 1950s when the Chinese govermment introduced
a higher education system geared to train students to meet the manpower needs of government and the society at
large. Destroyed by the Cultural Revolution (1966-76), China's higher education system was rebuilt only in the late
1970s as one element of a strategy to modernize the country. Much external assistance at the time was in piecemeal,



3
rehabilitative mode. The 1978-94 period witnessed a remarkable proliferation of public, regular higher education
institutions -- from 598 in 1978 to 1,080 in 1994. Enrollment numbers grew from 0.86 million in 1978 to 2.8 million
in 1994. The total enrollment for full-time and adult education degree programs was almost 6 million in 1998. Full-
time students in undergraduate and short-cycle courses grew at an annual rate of 7.7 percent. Graduate enrol;ment
rose from zero to 0.13 million by 1994. The higher education participation rate for regular students and adult
education stream students at just about 7 percent of gross enrollment, however, is low when compared to other East
Asian economies. For example, the higher education participation rate is 10 percent in Indonesia, 19 percent in
Thailand, 20 percent in Hong Kong, 39 percent in Taiwan (China), and 51 percent in the Republic of Korea. This
may have serious implications for the sustainability of economic growth and long-term social development in China.
In relation to the pressures of a growing market economy, the higher education sub-sector as a whole faces some
problems which may obstruct its further reform and development.
Public spending on higher education grew by an annual average of 9.7 percent between 1978 and 1994. Public
spending on higher education increased from 20 percent of total public expenditure on education in 1978, peaking at
29 percent in 1984, then declined to around 17 percent between 1989 and 1992, climbing to around 19 percent in
1994. Given the enrollment ratio of 7%, public spending on higher education is at the high end by international
comparison: for example, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Korea and Japan spent 11-17 percent of public expenditure.
China's rapid growth with an annual average GDP rate of 8 percent in real termns between 1978 and 1997 has
presented major challenges to the nation's higher education system. Since 1978, the Chinese Government has placed
emphasis on the rapid expansion and improvement of higher education to help improve the quality of education and
training to assist the country's economic and social development. In 1985, the Government adopted the document
Decision on Education Reform (CPC, 1985) that, inter alia, aimed at providing the mix of skills required in a rapidly
developing society, to improve efficiency, quality and equity, and to release resources required to develop and
enhance education at lower levels. The reform document provides a policy framework supporting the revitalization of
both curricular content and teaching.
More recently, in order to speed up transformation nationwide from a planned economy to a market economy, the
Guidelines of China's Educational Reform and Development (GOC, February 1993) called for reforms to (a) provide
the required specialists for China's modernization and for establishment of a socialist market economy; (b) improve
the social status, work and living conditions of teachers; and (c) build up 100 key universities and establish key
courses of studies and specialized studies. Changes taking place are at two levels: primarily governmental policy and
institutional practice. The major strategic approach is that of decentralization in institutional management and
administration with the center expected to maintain managerial oversight at the macro level. Currently, the sub-
sector's attention is focused on (c) above, referred to in local parlance as Project 211 (100 leading institutions to reach
international competitive standards in the 21st century). This vision has recently been adjusted to the economic
realities and would probably stop short at a much lower number of universities. Implications for selected universities
are injections of capital funds, largely for infrastructure expansion and facilities upgrading, with some focus on post-
graduate education programs.
One of China's key development strategies has been to strengthen her scientific and technological capacity in
research and application. The 35 percent increase of graduates at first-degree and post-graduate levels between 1990
and 1997 demonstrates the importance which Government planners and policy-makers place on this critical
contribution to China's development. Therefore, a clear policy context for higher education reform exists.
Within the context of ongoing reforms, the major issues confronting the sub-sector include the following:
*  The goal for public expenditure in the education sector is 4 percent of GDP. The current expenditure of 2%+
falls far short of the plan and is not expected to change much in the near future. This has serious
implications for the implementation of reforms involving upgrading facilities such as equipment and libraries
(purchase of foreign books and journals), introduction of major curriculum changes, and training of staff.
*  Striking curriculum changes initiated in the 1980s are reflected in the movement toward broad-based
structures of knowledge and experimentation with course organization, delivery methods and the



4
development of print and electronic instructional materials. These changes have put considerable demands
on faculty who lack the relevant knowledge and skills.
*  The Ministry of Education (MOE) has delegated financial responsibility to institutions. Cost recovery
measures have been introduced (a national policy in 1995) and are being encouraged. Leading institutions in
thriving economic areas are able to provide 40-50 percent of their revenue through self-generated income
(largely through commissioned research, student fees, training and technological services), but this is not the
case in most universities. Universities in poor regions and areas are unable to generate such revenues and
consequently face considerable shortfalls in income. This is particularly true in science and technology-
based disciplines which inherently require higher capital and recurrent costs. Without these investments, the
quality and relevance problems of institutions are compounded as knowledge and skills in these areas change
at an increasingly accelerated pace.
*  Poor institutions find it difficult to provide appropriate salary and non-salary incentives to attract and retain
qualified academic staff. Present staff who are largely under-qualified are unable to meet reforn policy
objectives. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that approximately 40 percent of existing senior staff
would retire by the turn of the century (majority of these hired after the Cultural Revolution in the early
'80s). The skewed age distribution of staff makes it imperative for universities to seek effective ways to
upgrade and promote sufficient numbers of young scholars while maintaining the quality of the higher
education system. In 1994 less than 2 percent of university teaching staff had Ph.D. This jeopardizes
leadership in academic activities. With enrollments increasing in science and technology disciplines (37
percent of all enrollments in 1994 were in engineering), coupled with curriculum and teaching/learning
reform policies, staff training and upgrading must assume a central role.
*  Large variation and disparities exist between the richer, well-performing institutions and poorer, hinterland
universities: these pose serious impediments to the country's overall goals for social and economic growth.
There are serious repercussions for the most disadvantaged groups which include the poor, rural, minority
and, in many cases, females.
i  MOE and universities need to improve and practice contemporary methods of managing financial resources
in order to harness and better utilize scarce resources.
•  Reform efforts require expertise in management at several levels in the university's chain of authority.
Academicians who are good scholars are not necessarily the best managers. Achieving efficiency and
economy in institutional management requires substantial investment in developing management skills and
computerized management information systems.
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices:
The Project is designed within the context of existing and clear directions for sub-sectoral reforms and on the basis of
the findings of an in-depth sub-sectoral analysis China: Higher Education Reform (June, 1997) which was jointly
conducted by the Bank and MOE in cooperation with higher education institutions; lessons learned from ongoing and
completed higher education projects in China; experience from other Bank regions and bilateral agencies; reports
from IDF grant activities on curriculum reform; and initial findings from MOE-commissioned research studies on
curriculum and teaching reform. The Bank's sub-sectoral analysis reviewed and made recommendations on the four
following areas, jointly identified with MOE's Department of Finance: Relationships between Universities and the
State; Changes in University Management; Financing Higher Education: Diversification of Resources; and Quality
Improvement in Instructional Programs which focused on curriculum and staffing in Chinese universities. More
specifically, the sector work on higher education reform completed in 1997 showed undergraduate science and
engineering programs as among the weakest in the tertiary system. Universities' data on employer feedback show
that Chinese industries too have increasingly expressed concerns about insufficient creativity, practical skills, and
ability for teamwork demonstrated by recent university graduates. The Government has placed the undergraduate
level at the top of its priority list of higher education reforms. Designed within this context, the Project has been
flagged by MOE as the second wave of major reforms, viewing it as an opportunity to create a strong, modernized
and broadened curriculum content and skills base, helping to prepare graduates for an increasingly technology-based
economy.



5
Since curricula at undergraduate level have not been updated for more than a decade, the Project would introduce
reforms in science and engineering programs at the undergraduate level, rather than at the graduate level which have
already been targeted in the majority of previous Bank-supported higher education projects. Upgrading curricula and
introducing effective teaching and learning modes would raise the quality of education, providing students with the
skills and flexibility to adapt to changes in knowledge and in the job market. The introduction of reforms in the
higher education system in China follows an established and tested mode: it starts with pilots in institutions most
likely to succeed followed by dissemination of successful outcomes throughout the system.
Keeping GOC's goals in the forefront, the Project would address some of the core issues raised in the previous section
with an emphasis on long-term development outcomes as a basis for strategic choices:
*  The Project would support training and other activities related to continued staff improvement through
specific integrated activities such as upgrading faculty qualifications, refocusing their attention to better
utilize experimental centers and laboratories leading to more open-ended, innovative, student-centered
learning styles, improving conditions for practical (laboratory) work, and examination reforms.
*  The introduction of textbook and materials contracts based on competitive selection/funding mechanism
would improve institutional capacity in the direction of sound mechanisms for supporting quality. This
would mark a major departure from the favored a priori method of selection and award in curriculum
development, thus providing opportunities for all institutions to take part in quality upgrading of their
proposals, not only the winners. It also provides MOE with opportunities to develop its macro-management
and supervision role as configured in sectoral reform objectives.
*  Promoting the concept of partnership linkages would provide opportunities for poorer institutions to acquire
much needed information on curricula, teaching methodologies, examination reforms, MIS, and international
university exchanges. For the leading universities, opportunities for such linkages nationally and
internationally are legion. Poorer, low-performing universities generally function in isolation. By teaming up
with stronger institutions who have more know-how and international savvy, their chances of becoming part
of the changing profile of China's academic community are improved, and this would reduce differences in
quality. Through interactive communications, training programs and other dissemination activities, the
partnership program increases substantially the multiplier effects of project interventions.
*  Strengthening capacities at MOE and institutional levels would improve the level of management in the
entire sub-sector. In this regard, project support in terms of training and policy research would: strengthen
the management information system (MIS); enhance institutional utilization and maintenance of critical
databases, sharing these developments with poorer universities; and help review and rationalize funding
allocation mechanisms.



6
C: Project Description Summary
1.  Project conponents: (see Annex Ifor detailed project design with performance indicators; Annex 2for detailed project
description and Appendix A to Annex 2for the terms of reference of the Higher Education Advisory Panel (HEAP); Annex 3for a
detailed project cost breakdown):
Category       Cost Incl.      % of
Component                                                                                         Contingencies   Total
(USSM)
f Achieving Inprovement in Teaching and Learning:
The objective is to institute a series of reform measures to improve the quality and relevance   Consultant  94.0    90.4
of undergraduate science and engineering programs. Measures underpinning the proposed  services,
reform include the rationalization of science and engineering disciplines, reduction of  Equipment,
narrow specialization, restructuring of academic programs of study, and introduction of  Books,
new integrative science and engineering courses. Adopting student-centered learning  Studies,
strategies, and making laboratories, computer facilities and library resources more readily  Training
accessible would enhance the effectiveness of the learning process. The component would
also support improvement in the quality and relevance of the experimental and design
aspects of science and engineering education through the establishment of new well-
equipped "integrated laboratory centers" in the first and second year science and engineering
programs. The reforms would enable universities to prepare graduates in science and
engineering who have the appropriate knowledge, skills, competencies and aptitudes needed
for China's growing industries and enterprises. Activities under this component would take
place through four sub-components: (a) Renewing and restructuring of academic programs;
(b) Reforming learning strategies through measures such as adopting student-centered
strategies, and making laboratories, computer facilities and library services more readily
accessible.; (c) Improving the learning environment through updated textbooks, better self-
directed learning options and teacher support, and through the establishment of experimental
centers; and (d) Upgrading teachers and staff in support of the reforms. The component is
designed to satisfy frequent demands from industrial employers for university graduates
who are more creative and practical, who are better able to work in teams, and who have a
broader knowledge base. There would be continuous training and information exchange
among academic staff and among laboratory and library staff.
II. Using Partnerships and Networks to Spread Reforms:
The objective is to spread the reforms carried out by Project universities by extending them    Consultant  5.4       5.2
to the weaker partner institutions in poor, less accessible areas through cooperative  services,
relationships. The traditional policy of 'hand-in-hand' collaboration between institutions  Studies,
would evolve to include innovative forms of cooperation specifically related to curriculum  Training
and teaching-learning methodology reform. The partnership program would enable the
partner institution to benefit from the proposed reforms, thereby significantly increasing the
project's multiplier effects and widening and deepening the impact of the reforms. In order
to embed reforms in the partners' academic programs/courses, project institutions would
create an enabling environment through improved communication and dissemination
mechanisms for joint working and research with their respective partners, training their
teaching staff and students. and sharing equipment and new teaching/learning materials.
Monitoring indicators in shared activities (such as training) adopted by project universities
would also be applicable to partner institutions.
III. Supporting Institutional Capacity for Change:
Activities under this component, which is to be implemented by MOE, are designed to  Technical             4.5        4.4
strengthen institutional planning and administration, and central coordination and  assistance,
management. Project activities include: (a) Policy-based research studies such as  Consultant
assessment, establishment of tracer study mechanisms at MOE and Project Universities; (b)   services,
Updating and reform of 200 courses and 400 textbooks; (c) development of selected  Grants,
electronic teaching and learning materials; (d) Nationally-organized technical assistance  Training
activities for implementation personnel which focus on project-related training such as
project management, procurement management and financial management; (e) Overseas
study tours in five key thematic areas and related dissemination workshops; and (f) Overall
coordination, monitoring and evaluation of all project activities assisted by an independent
Higher Education Advisory Panel (HEAP-Appendix A to Annex 2) which is to be
established under the Project. The activities would include monitoring a Student Loan Pilot
Scheme for Lanzhou University which is financed by a PHRD Grant.                   Total_                104_0
Total                 104.0      100.0



7
2.  Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project:
*  Establishing and strengthening lateral working relationships among institutions to spread reforms in curriculum,
teaching and management.
*  Establishing graduate tracer systems in MOE and universities in order to improve market and post-graduate
employment information as a critical element of overall planning and implementation of undergraduate curricula.
*  Improving the quality of textbooks and instructional materials by initiating a competitive mechanism for selection
of authors, providing MOE opportunities to organize and manage such an initiative.
*  Supporting undergraduate science and engineering programs in their endeavor to reach world class standards
through upgrading and training staff, improving availability and access to better managed and equipped
laboratories, and modernizing curricula and teaching-learning strategies.
*  Providing MOE opportunities to strengthen its planning, monitoring and macro-management capacity as
stated in all national education reform documents.
3. Target population and benefits:
Target population: 28 key national universities and 31 weaker partners in poor areas with limited resources, and the
student/staff population within them.
Project universities were selected on the basis of criteria developed jointly (see Appendix A) between MOE and the
Bank. The 28 project universities are administratively mapped as follows: 25 are MOE institutions and one each
under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Public Health, the Chinese Academy of Science and the State Bureau of
Coal Industry. The 28 universities are located in four municipalities (7 in Beijing, I in Chongqing, 2 in Shanghai,
and 2 in Tianjin), and eleven provinces: Anhui (1), Gansu (1), Heilongjiang (1), Hubei (2), Jiangsu (3), Jilin (2),
Liaoning (1), Shaanxi (2), Shandong (1), Sichuan (1) and Zhejiang (1). Each of the project universities would work
with its partner institution(s) to implement the agreed reform programs. The total number of project universities and
partner institutions is 59 (see Appendix Bfor list of all 59 Project Universities and Partner Institutions).
Beneficiaries:
*  Project beneficiaries would encompass 28 host and at least 31 partner institutions who would have agreed
programs of collaborative linkages.
*  Approximately one million students in undergraduate science and engineering programs would benefit from
planned reform initiatives over the life of the Project. The calculation of one million is on the basis of
current enrollments in project universities and partner institutions - approximately 150,000 students enrolled
in first and second years of undergraduate science and engineering degree programs over the five years of
the Project, bringing the cumulative total to one million - who would benefit from better quality curricula,
teaching, equipment and books. The one million students would signify 17 percent of total student
enrollments for undergraduate programs in Chinese universities.
*  Approximately 43,000 teaching faculty and management staff (institutional managers and administrators) of
undergraduate science and engineering programs in the 28 key national host and 31 poor partner institutions.
They would signify almost 9 percent of total teaching and management staff in Chinese universities.
Benefits:
* The Project would benefit the economy by assisting in the development of a pool of graduates with broad-
based knowledge and skills providing them with the flexibility to adapt to the challenges of a market
economy. This would also have an indirect spillover effect on the rest of the labor force. Changes in partner



8
institutions will have a strong impact on the quality of tertiary institutions in non-project areas, many of
which come under the jurisdiction of poor provinces. Provincial Higher Education Bureaus would be able to
help in the dissemination of reforms to other institutions as well as use the experiences to inform their own
policy development.
*  There would be an increase in efficiency in Project Universities as indicated by the expected changes in
staff-student ratios (SSRs) over the period of the Project. In 1997, the average SSR was 10.36, ranging from
2.30 (Beijing Medical University) to 14.90 (Nanjing University). In 2004 (Project completion), the average
SSR is expected to be 12.50, ranging from 5.0 (Beijing Medical University) to 19.8 (Nanjing University). If
Beijing Medical University is excluded from the calculation due to its special nature, then the average SSR is
expected to be 13.3. The more favorable SSRs, if achieved, would contribute significantly to lowering staff
costs.
*  Training plans in Project Universities show that the proportion of teaching staff with doctoral degrees would
have greatly increased by the end of the Project, thereby increasing the likelihood of better instructional
outcomes for students. Project Universities would have increased this proportion by 6 percent to 35 percent
(Sichuan University) at the low end and from 30 percent to 60 percent (Beijing University) at the high end.
* Courses, textbooks, and examinations would be updated, restructured and modernized, being aligned more
closely to international standards and to the demands of industry. By 2004, Project Universities expect to
have increased from 7 to 20 updated courses (Huazhong Institute of Technology) at one end of the spectrum
and from 30 to 400 (Beijing University) on the other; books udpated range from 7 to 31 (Beijing Medical
University) and from 50 to 200 (Beijing University); and proportion of courses with examinations reformed
from 1.7 percent to 20 percent (Beijing Medical University) and 10 percent to 100 percent (Fudan
University) or from 5 percent to 100 percent (Harbin Institute of Technology).
-  By establishing mechanisms and performance indicators to monitor efficiency gains in participating
institutions and by strengthening through appropriate training the capacity of managers and administrators at
the central and institutional levels, the Project would respond to ongoing decentralization and expansion
policy-based efforts in the nation's higher education system.
Benefits outreach:
- Benefits can be expected to reach students and staff who are already in the system, and those about to enter,
through the spread effect of a more efficient and qualitatively improved system. For example, faculty and
managers in partner institutions would gain from information sharing on various aspects pertaining to
reforms in curricula, teaching and management through membership in higher education consortia, joint
development of new curricula and appropriate training in teaching methodologies, exchange of information
on MIS issues with the host institution, joint purchasing of MIS to benefit from economies of scale, and
resource sharing (for example, laboratories) opportunities for both staff and students. The multiplier effects
of the proposed reforms through the Project as designed would be far-reaching and eventually affect the
entire higher education sub-sector in China. Over time, using improved dissemination mechanisms, the
spread effects of reform outcomes instituted within the Project would reach up to more than double that
number in poor partner institutions and beyond.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:
(i)  Implementation period: The Project would be implemented over a period of five years-expected starting
date is September 1999 and closing date is July 2005.
(ii) Executing Agencies: The Foreign Investment Loan Office (FILO) of MOE and the 28 project universities
would be responsible for implementing the Project according to the planned activities under the three main
components. FILO has had long-term experience in project related matters, specifically with the Bank's
procedures pertaining to procurement and disbursement. In addition, FILO is familiar with aspects of
physical implementation of projects. By involving the Higher Education Department and other technical



9
departments of MOE, and by ensuring consultation with the participating institutions, the Project
management capacity has been further strengthened. All related stakeholders responsible for project
implementation have been briefed about the Bank's requirements pertaining to financial management,
procurement and other project related procedures. Every effort has been made to update the Borrower
about the Bank's latest procedural requirements.
(iii) Project Oversight and Coordination (policy guidance, etc.): At the national level, FILO/MOE would be
responsible for overall direction and coordination, including procurement of equipment and books; the
partnership programs; organization of national and international training, workshops and other collaborative
activities; academic coordination between institutional projects; and overall project monitoring, evaluation
and reporting. FILO/MOE would submit an annual report which consolidates annual reports from project
universities. These reports would include reports from partner institutions. FILO/MOE would be supported
by MOE's Department of Higher Education and the specifically established advisory panel, the HEAP, and
by training implementation personnel in project management and Bank procedures. At the institutional
level, the loan offices established by the Project universities would implement their respective projects
under the guidance of the institutionally-appointed Project Leading Groups. Given the complex nature of
supervising 28 institutions and tracking their interaction with partner institutions, MOE through the HEAP
would perform random checks on a yearly basis throughout the Project implementation period. Different
project universities would be targeted during each of the five years for the random checks such that a
majority of the Project funding recipients are supervised during the life of the Project. The 28 Project
universities would be responsible for monitoring and reporting to FILO/MOE on their partner institutions'
implementation activities. Annex 9 provides an organizational chart which clarifies lines of responsibility.
(iv) Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: Based on the Financial Management
Regulations for World Bank Loans issued by the Ministry of Finance (MOF), and with reference to the
national guidelines and policies for foreign fund utilization, the detailed regulations for financial
management will be included in an operational manual to be issued by FILO/MOE, with basic requirements
that: (a) An independent account and accounting system would be established for all the Project universities
exactly reflecting the project implementation and its cash flows; (b) The double-entry debit/credit
accounting method would be applied with timely bookkeeping, accounting and reporting; (c) Special
financial staff would be assigned to the Project university FILO with appropriate qualification and stable
service; (d) A sound documentation retention system would be set up at all levels for financial management
with good arrangements for keeping vouchers, records, statements, contracts, orders, and other accounting
procedures; (e) All funds, including Bank loan/credit and counterpart funds are earmarked for their
specified purposes; and (f) Plans for fund use would be regularly reported and approved before their
execution by MOF and MOE, based on the project implementation schedule. Formats for six-monthly
Project Management Reporting (PMR) to the Bank have been agreed. These would be furnished to the
Association and the Bank no later than May I and November I in each calendar year.
For auditing, the State Auditing Bureau will provide audits for the project. A consolidated annual audit
report of project accounts and Special Account would be submitted to the Bank with a separate assessment
of the Statement of Expenditures.
(v) Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: FILO/MOE is responsible for monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
of the Project as a whole. Its work would be facilitated by a Project Implementation Plan (PIP, see PIP
Package), and an annual action plan based on the PIP. Through site visits, e-mail communication and
annual reports from the Project universities, FILO with assistance of the HEAP would monitor individual
institutional as well as overall progress towards achieving project objectives. FILO is responsible for
submitting to the Bank, annual audit reports no later than June 30 each year, annual progress reports no later
than April 1 each year, and the mid-term report (MTR) which would be based on individual project
institutional progress reports. At the institutional level, each project university and its partner institution
through their respective Project Loan Office and Joint Leading Groups would be responsible for reporting
to the Project Loan Office of the Project university, which would then present a consolidated annual report
to FILO. The M&E duties of the Project universities and their respective partners would be aided by their
own PIP and the corresponding annual action plan based on the PIP. The respective implementation units



10
would submit periodic reports to FILO which would prepare a consolidated report for submission to the
Bank. The proposed annual action plan would be furnished to the Bank for clearance no later that
November 1 each year, providing a plan for implementation of the Project in the following calendar year.
The above responsibilities apply also to the preparation of an implementation completion report (ICR) at
project completion, and in any event not later than 6 months after the Credit/Loan closing date. Included in
the ICR would be: an assessment on the execution of the Project; its costs and benefits derived or to be
derived; the performance of the Borrower and the World Bank regarding their respective obligations and
accomplishments, and lessons learned. Included also would be the plans for future operations and financing
of the programs which have been financed under the Project. During project implementation, periodic
missions from the Association would review the progress of project implementation according to a
Supervision Plan (see PIPfor details) and based on indicators presented in Annex 1, respectively.
FILO/MOE assisted by the HEAP will monitor progress of Project Universities, Partner Institutions and
activities organized by MOE.
(vi) Procurement and Disbursement (see Annex 6for details). FILO/MOE would oversee and coordinate
Project procurement and would be responsible for ensuring that Bank guidelines are followed. A detailed
procurement plan outlining each step of the procurement process has been prepared by MOE (see Annex 6).
There would be three phases of ICBs and international shopping for laboratory equipment, two NCBs for
books and teaching/learning materials, and consultant services, staff training and study tours. Details of
procurement arrangements and review functions of the agreed procurement plan are provided in Annex 6,
and have been incorporated into the overall Project Implementation Plan.
For disbursement, the Special Account would be managed by FILO/MOE. Its functions include the review
of eligibility of the expenditures submitted by project universities, monitoring the flow of funds, and
preparing and submitting disbursement applications to the Bank. Detailed disbursement arrangements are
also explained in Annex 6.
(vii) Project Implementation Plan (for details see PIP Package)
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
*  Type of Institution: Bank's initial proposal that candidate institutions be limited to poor provincially owned
universities was changed to leading centrally-owned universities on the basis of past experience and lessons
learned where low-performing institutions with weak management practices were unable to implement
projects successfully. The need for developing high-performing reform models for the variety of universities
in China's massive higher education system was a significant additional reason for the choice.
*  Education program levelfor investment:
Basic Education: Between 1992 and 1997, the World Bank and Government of China (GOC) collaborated
on a program of four basic education projects in quick succession. The projects cover a total of 364 (61
percent) of the 592 nationally-designated poverty counties. GOC has its own parallel program of basic
education projects in those poverty counties not covered by the Bank projects. Enrollment rates in 1995
were 98.5 percent of the 6-11 age cohort (primary) and 78.4 percent of the 12-15 age cohort in junior
secondary. The literacy rate of those between 15 and 25 years of age is about 93 percent. Given the good
coverage and GOC's own firm plans to continue with their internal projects, Bank-China dialogue concluded
that the basic education sub-sector should be dropped as a candidate for the last project in the pipeline. In
addition, Bank education strategy includes systemic reform for tertiary level where basic education policy
and practice is sound. There is also a need to study the outcomes and impact of the four basic education
projects before launching into a fifth.
Teacher Education: During earlier lending program discussions, the Bank had put forward the possibility of
working on a third teacher education project (second would be closing June 30, 1999). MOE welcomed the



I1
idea of further sector work but not a project. There are plans for restructuring this sub-sector and MOE
preferred to iron out internal matters relating to policy, financing, etc. without a Bank project in the offering.
Higher Education: Following the Cultural Revolution, China's most pressing task was to rehabilitate the
sub-sector and initiate sizable graduate programs to train the country's researchers and specialized personnel.
Since 1981 eight Bank projects (totalling $910.4 million) were undertaken across the sub-sector, but
nonspecialized universities in provincial jurisdictions were not included in any of the projects. Given
China's economic growth and the large base of well-trained personnel required to operate a modem,
technology and knowledge-based economy, GOC perceived the Bank as well-placed to build on its past
rehabilitative work, and therefore preferred to borrow for reforming the higher education sub-sector. In
addition, GOC stressed: (a) reform in curriculum and teaching, and (b) the need for models of good practice
in improving efficiency to reduce public expenditure for higher education and this should be embedded in
both strong and weak higher education institutions. The pattern of reform in China is as follows: being a
top-down hierarchical society, new ideas found to be successful at the top key universities would then be
implemented at the middle-level relatively strong, provincial universities, finally making their way to the
lowest tier. The focus of the Bank's higher education reform project is dissemination of good practice
designed to leapfrog the traditional tiers - starting with elites but moving across to poor institutions using
better modes of communication including modem technology.
Undergraduate Level: Post-graduate science and engineering programs would have been a good choice in
terms of strengthening leadership in these critical developmental areas for a growing technology-based
economy. However, previous projects did not approach the teaching and learning of undergraduate science
and engineering courses on a systematic institution-wide basis which would have far-reaching and long-term
outcomes for a wider bank of graduates coming into the labor market. The alternative of supporting graduate
level education was rejected also because the Government's "Project 211" provides greater emphasis on
improvements at graduate level, while mainly focusing on overall physical construction and infrastructure of
key national institutions.
Why science and engineering: From a macroeconomic perspective, the Project focuses on science and
engineering rather than other subject areas because China's transition from a command to a socialist market
economy is increasingly exposing the economy to global pressures. In order to remain globally competitive,
China's manufacturing and technological base would have to be strengthened. An integral part of
strengthening the economic sector is to ensure a critical mass of well-trained personnel who are flexible,
creative, practical, and adaptable to future technologies and labor market needs, and are better able to work
in teams. The short-term market need in China might be for economists and accountants but, from a long-
term perspective, there would be an increasing need for qualified scientists and engineers. From a lending
perspective, non-governmental institutions and other donor agencies have more readily taken up
responsibility for non-heavy equipment based studies such as accounting, management and economics.
Moreover, considering the short shelf life of science and technology programs, the need for high investments
in appropriate equipment, and the accelerating pace of knowledge generation in these areas, it is difficult to
identify support for such programs from local sources or bilateral and other grant-giving donor agencies
including the UN. The Bank's international experience and familiarity with the sub-sectoral characteristics
through previous projects vests in it a comparative advantage to assist China in building up a sound
foundation for science and technology oriented toward the 21 st century.
*  Why thefirst two years of undergraduate science and engineering programs and not the entirefouryears
of study. While project investments would be made primarily at first and second year levels, they would
provide the impetus for embedding reforms across all four years of undergraduate science and engineering
programs. The choice has been made to support an in-depth treatment of curriculum and pedagogical
reform, given the limited financial resources. The momentum commenced by the Project activities would
have a spread effect on the entire institution as the learning environment changes with modemized curricula
and equipment, updated teaching/leaming approaches and more open-ended leaming styles, updated
laboratory and library facilities. Equipment would be available to third and fourth year programs as well.
An additional reason was the need to design a project which could be supervised effectively in terms of the



12
detailed qualitative reform activities whose progress would be assessed through the use of mutually agreed
indicators.
*  Projectfinanced equipment. The proportion of costs for training (6.1 %) is relatively low (see paragraph on
Staffing Issues below) in comparison to the major share of project costs (78 percent) that would finance
equipment. This would appear not to signal much in terms of reforms and quality improvement. However,
based on international experience and China's own record of utilizing and maintaining equipment,
investment in educational equipment is fundamental as it would: (a) facilitate a shift from a theoretical to a
practical orientation among students; (b) open access to new experimental centers which would foster a shift
toward self-paced learning and student-centered experimentation; and (c) facilitate the introduction of open-
ended, design-oriented and problem-based elements. Updated, imported equipment require hard currency
which universities cannot readily access, hence MOE's and project universities' decision to allocate the
largest share of Credit/Loan proceeds to equipment. The Bank is the only agency which can provide
financing for large amounts of expensive equipment and this is seen as a comparative advantage by the
Borrower.
*  Staffing issues. While the crisis proportions of imminent staff retirements perhaps indicate that Project
design and costs could reflect more closely the need to increase qualified faculty, the reasons for the low
level of Project costs earmarked for staff training are the following: (a) staff training in the new learning
modes would in most cases have to be in-service; under the two earlier Bank-funded University
Development Projects, a centralized staff training network has been established with the overall objective to
provide training programs to at least 5 percent of the teaching staff annually. This practice would continue to
be an important source of qualified staff; (b) the Project would focus on training key trainers, using the
cascade approach to train those at other levels; (c) long-term training abroad which has always been a high-
ticket item is rarely taken up due to the negative brain-drain experience of the '80s. Local training costs are
extremely modest by comparison; and (d) grant-giving bilateral agencies provide training funds (see Table 2,
page 14) which are preferable to the Borrower to loans entailing repayment.
2.  Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed ongoing and
planned):
Participation of international and bilateral development agencies in the higher education sub-sector demonstrates their
recognition of a positive, pro-reform environment in China. Support from these agencies complements the Bank's
efforts to accelerate reforms. As Table I below reveals, such aid generally constitutes training and research activities
at the post-graduate level.



13
Table 1. Completed World Bank Projects with IP and DO Ratings
Latest Supervision
(Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Sector Issue                             Project                                         Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Enhance the quality and productivity of post-  China: Key Studies Development Project     S                S
graduate research in strategic areas relevant to  (Cr.22 10; January 1991)
long-term economic and social development;
provide a modem scientific infrastructure (key
laboratories) for Chinese scientists trained at
home and abroad.
Rapid expansion to help reduce serious   China: Second University Development Project     S                S
manpower constraints; improve the balance    (Cr. 1551; February 1985)
between manpower supply and requirements in
engineering and economics/finance sector,
particularly at the post-graduate level.
Strengthen 28 key universities in selected  China: University Development Project         S                S
scientific and technical fields at the graduate   (Ln.2021 & Cr.1167; June 1981)
level
Improve quality and management in provincial China: Provincial Universities Project       S                S
universities (largely normal/teacher training)   (Cr. 1671; February 1986)
Develop and expand access to post-secondary  China: Polytechnic/Television Universities Project  S         S
education for secondary school graduates and  (Cr. 1411; August 1983)
adults whose education had been disrupted
during the Cultural Revolution
Improve quality of undergraduate education;   Indonesia: Development of Undergraduate Education   S        S
improve efficiency of the educational process;  Project
and improve relevance of study programs  (Ln. 4043; May 1996)     _
Improve the quality and relevance of     Indonesia: Quality of Undergraduate Education Project S           S
undergraduate education; restructure higher   (Ln. 4193; May 1997)
education management; and improve
geographical and social equity
Develop technical and scientific skilled  Thailand: Universities Science & Engineering    S                S
manpower to handle rapidly changing      Education Project
technologies in the productive sectors to  (Ln. 4160; February 1997)
strengthen the country's long-term
technological needs
A programmatic approach to create a more  Korea: Higher Technical Education Project       HS               HS
flexible system of supplying technical skills;  (Ln. 1800; January 1980)
remove principal constraints on quality
improvement; and reduce projected investment
gap in higher technical education
Establish competitive environment for    Argentina: Higher Education Reform Project       S                S
improvement of higher education          (Ln. 3921; June 1995)
Improve responsiveness of higher education to  Hungary: Human Resources Development Project  S             HS
market economy                           (Ln. 3313; March 1991)
Increase responsiveness to social and economic Hungary: Higher Education Reform Project   S                S
needs; improve the operating efficiency of the  (Ln. 4287; January 1998)
system; and mobilize private finance.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



14
Table 2. China: Support from Development Agencies
Cooperation Programs                                          Aspects of support
Sino-US Fulbright Program                                     Academic exchange program: (a) Subsidizing Chinese scholars,
Commenced in 1946 and resumed in 1980.                       researchers and graduates to US Higher Educational Institutions and/or to
scientific research institutions; (b) Financial assistance to overseas
scholars coming to China for giving lectures. (c) Short-cycle exchange
focusing on American research and teaching methodologies.
Sino-US Educational Program in Economics                      Activities include training in economics; sponsoring Chinese scholars
Commenced in 1984.                                           and economist groups to the US; short-cycle training; giving China
Supported by Ministry of Education (PRC) and Ford Foundation (US) current textbooks of economics and relevant periodicals, etc. as gifts.
Sino-British Friendship Scholarship Plan
Commenced in 1987. Valid for 10 years.
Total sum of 3.5 m pounds annually - Chevalier Bao Yugang
provided 1.4m pounds; the GOC 1.4m; Government of Great Britain
0.7m pounds
Sino-British Technical Cooperation Program                    Focus of cooperation on scientific research including personnel exchange
Great Britain's input: nearly 4.Om pounds.                   for academic programs. At present 20 persons are in Great Britain on
training. 12 scientific research program have been carried out so far.
Sino-Canadian Educational Cooperation Program on University   Chinese students sent to Canada for Master's or Doctoral degree
Management                                                    programs. (b) Launch of MBA program in China with Canadian
Started in 1983. The third cycle began in 1996.              assistance. (c) Launch of Doctoral program by both Chinese and
Canadian contribution Canadian$5 m.                          Canadian universities. (d) Educational program on population in both
high schools and adult schools for peasants. (e) Cooperation on major
economic management carried out by 20 Canadian universities and 24
leading and coordinated Chinese universities.
Sino-Canadian University Cooperation Consolidation Program    Personnel exchange, cooperation on scientific research, etc.
Started in 1996. Valid for 5 years.                          For cooperation among 11 pairs of higher education institutions from
Total sum of Canadian$ 10.Om through the Canadian International  China and Canada.
Development Agency (CIDA)
Sino-Canadian Higher Education Program                        Scientific research and human resource development.
Started in 1996.
Total sum of Canadian$1O.0m
Sino-Canadian Post-senior High School Vocational Education    Financial aid to Canadian Community Colleges and Chinese Vocational
Cooperation (1990-96)                                         Colleges for setting up cooperative ties.
Canadian contribution: Canadian$7.5m
Sino-Australian University Cooperation Program                Financial aid to higher education institutions of Australian and Chinese
First cooperative endeavor 1990-93.                          institutions of higher education for cooperative research in science,
Australian Govemment contribution: Aus$1.28m                 economics, law and social services.
Second cooperative endeavor since 1996. Valid for 3 years.
Australian Govemment contribution: Aus$4.18m
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed Project design:
The Project design takes cognizance of lessons learned from: the Bank's paper on Higher Education. The Lessons of
Experience (1994); findings of the Bank's sector study on Higher Education Reform in China (1997), and an earlier study
Management and Financing of Higher Education (1 986); ongoing and completed higher education projects; and
implementation completion reports and performance audit reports of higher education projects from the region and elsewhere.
A.   The World Bank's review of Higher Education: The Lessons of Experience. Summarizing the Bank's
international experiences:
(i)  Advanced scientific training and research require strong undergraduate programs. Whole institutions and
systems of higher education must be strengthened to produce sustainable improvements. The Korean case
is cited where strengthening of links between science and technology institutions and industrial users is
emphasized. The Project would attempt to reform curriculum and teaching methodology so that a sound
foundation is provided for undergraduates to ensure that their training and education are relevant and would



15
continue to be relevant to the labor market. To this end, MOE and project universities would establish
graduate tracer systems under the project.
(ii) In terms of improving quality of higher education, investments should be designed to: (a) enhance the
quality of instruction and research through technical assistance targeted toward upgrading the qualifications
of academic staff; (b) introduce innovations in teaching, organization and content of academic programs,
and methods of assessing student performance; (c) increase the provision and quality of instructional
facilities and resources to support institutional plans for self-improvement; (d) improve examinations and
selection processes; (e) increase the productivity and quality of graduate training and staff research; and (f)
include support for national and international scientific communication to attain the objective of increasing
productivity and improving the quality of graduate training and staff research. National and international
communication would be ensured through the linkages and partnership elements such as the China
Education and Research Net (CERNET) which would promote the dissemination of knowledge and
information, and through overseas study tours, seminars etc.
B.  World Bank Country Study: China - Higher Education Reform (1997): The Project builds on the reform efforts
being put in place by MOE in the higher education sub-sector, and it sits squarely within the government's sub-
sectoral strategy which is articulated in the World Bank Country Study: China - Higher Education Reform (1997).
The Project incorporates several of these elements to promote reform in higher education at the undergraduate level:
(i) supports reforms and sustainable curriculum review and renewal processes in undergraduate programs to create a
strong scientific and research base; (ii) supports and intensifies staff development in conjunction with curriculum
reforms in science and technology; (iii) enhances the quality of instruction and research through technical assistance
targeted to upgrading the qualifications of academic staff; and (iv) promotes linkages between stronger and weaker
universities within the country, between universities and industry, and between Chinese universities and international
institutions.
An internal review of implementation experience conducted by the Bank in 1992 concluded that Bank lending for
higher education has been most successful in those countries where a sub-sectoral strategy has been developed
through a series of complementary project investments. China has been cited as an example of a country where loans
have involved different tiers of the sub-sector in ways that have strengthened the higher education system as a whole
and addresses equity and quality issues in a comprehensive manner. Since 1981 (the last project became effective in
1991), through eight projects totaling US$910.4 million, the Bank has provided assistance to China's attempt to
alleviate high-level skill shortages in strategic areas most affected by the Cultural Revolution.
C.  Lessonslearnedfromprevious(usingJCRsandprojectauditreports),andongoingBankexperienceinChina
and other East Asian countries, and transitional economies such as Hungary and Romania indicate that a broad
understanding of reform activities is crucial to implement strategic reforms from a sub-sectoral perspective, and in
building in appropriate institutional development mechanisms, improvements in planning and management, and
increasing financial and academic accountability. The reform elements of the Project are articulated within the
context of ongoing higher education reform efforts in China. Counterparts (MOE and higher education institutional
heads) have actively participated in articulating proposed reforms through the Project. Project universities have been
selected from leading institutions which usually have more qualified and experienced staff, thereby increasing the
potential for successful implementation of project goals and sustainability. The 28 institutions are leading
universities and given the Project's critical reform focus, they would be expected to provide important models for the
sub-sector. The Higher Education Reform project is the last project in the pipeline until China revisits its policy of
not borrowing IBRD loans for the social sector. Therefore, it is important that strong, sustainable models are
embedded at this stage. Proposed reform elements through the Project include:
*  Curriculum. To build curriculum renewal and revitalization into the system, long-term plans for enhancing
ongoing curriculum review mechanisms at the center and institutional level include cross-institutional
curriculum reform and teaching materials development. The Project includes mechanisms to strengthen
curriculum development linkages and exchange of information between project universities and their poor
partners as well as foreign institutions and employer groups.
*  Faculty Development. The Project addresses the urgent issue that by 2000 about 30-40% of staff would
retire. Drawing on international lessons, the Project builds in elements of upgrading faculty qualifications,



16
promotion criteria for younger academic staff, and provision of incentives to retain qualified and experienced
staff. With the introduction of new equipment and better laboratories within the scope of the Project, an
academic career would become more appealing to younger staff.
*  Equipment selection, utilization and replacement. The Project assimilates lessons of experience from
previous Bank projects such as the University Development Project (Project Completion Report-PCR
1988) in that equipment lists would be scrutinized to ensure that overly sophisticated equipment with low
utilization potential are avoided; equipment purchased for faculty research and development are rationalized
to encourage inter-university cooperation and 'condensed obsolescence' of equipment is avoided by ensuring
a phased procurement and installation plan to even out the replacement cycle.
*  Management efficiency. One of the most effective ways to improve both efficiency and academic quality is
through sharing of scarce resources and cross-fertilization of ideas within and between universities as well as
between universities and other organizations, including industry. The Project reforms would actively
promote the establishment of linkages/partnerships both nationally and internationally between Chinese
higher education institutions and international higher education institutions/consortia as well as industry.
* Monitoring and using an advisory panel. Experience in previous Bank projects in China reveals that the role
of an advisory panel in project preparation, implementation and evaluation is pivotal to achieving project
objectives. A Higher Education Advisory Panel has been established and provided guidance to Project
Universities during project preparation. Confirmation was obtained at negotiations on the composition of the
Panel and its Terms of Reference.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
*  Government's commitment to reform is evident in several nationwide initiatives which followed its 1993
Guidelines for Development and the Reform of China's Education System. The Guidelines called upon the
education sector to help speed up the process of transformation from a planned to a market economy.
* Project universities are committed to the Project because it complements well the Government's massive
ongoing "Project 211 " which largely pertains to capital construction and infrastructure and quality
improvement at the post-graduate level. They see the Project as contributing to their own efforts to build
their respective institutions into centers of excellence at the undergraduate level.
*  A fairly extensive body of research had been commissioned by MOE in locations throughout China and
findings had been reported in the Project areas of curriculum and teaching as well as management reform.
Prior to the Identification and Preparation Mission, MOE's Higher Education Department had mounted and
commissioned 216 research projects nationwide on content and teaching method reform as well as
management change in higher education reform. (The Bank had supported these activities earlier through an
IDF Grant.) Findings of national and institutional projects would provide part of the base of proposed
Project activities. Findings are summarized in project files.
*  National workshops were convened during the Project identification/preparation and pre-appraisal stages
to build consensus, and to ensure that Project universities were fully informed about the various aspects of
project design, implementation and follow-up. Between Bank missions, the MOE Task Team has convened
approximately four workshops for continuing this work, and in addition has a national experts' committee
which worked with and advised project teams. Project design was, therefore, based on information sharing,
exchange of views, and wide consultation. Persons who were involved in the design and preparation stages
included management, administrative and academic staff of universities, and civil servants managing higher
education institutions both at the MOE and other central line ministries, provincial and local higher education
bureau officials. In addition, the graduate tracer and social assessment studies have reached out to a wider
group of stakeholders, including students, parents, employers, and representatives of minority communities
to elicit their views about the Project and its objectives.



17
*  During site visits to candidate institutions university Presidents, local municipality and provincial officials
offered support and expressed willingness to provide a proportion of counterpart funds. This was also in
keeping with the current trend of increasing local support for state-owned institutions. For example, local
authorities' contribution under the Project would benefit those resettled in the Chongqing Municipality area
as a result of the building of the 3 gorges, catering to the retraining and development of human resource
needs of the local population.
*  Institutional initiatives in reform efforts are in place and these have constituted one of the selection criteria
for project participation. The Government is looking to the Project to assist institutions in systematizing and
deepening innovative activities, providing strong demonstration effects for the higher education sub-sector as
a whole.
*  MOE has completed translating the 1997 Bank Sector Report China: Higher Education Reform (op. cit.) and
is in the process of disseminating it widely to officials and to universities in order to complement the Project
preparation process and also as part of the wider reform effort.
*  The Higher Education Reform Project signifies the final IDA Credit for the education sector in China. The
borrower has requested a higher education reform project during lending meetings since 1992 and has
expressed satisfaction through statements of high-level officials. These also indicate their eagerness in taking
advantage of the Credit.
a  The willingness of MOE (and institutions) to experiment with a Loan/Credit blend provides added evidence
of commitment, particularly when contrasted with their earlier negative reactions to Bank's suggestions.
*  The Bank's counterpart team has already set a precedent by assisting the Bank in developing and
implementing previous Bank projects in the country. The counterpart team is, therefore, familiar with Bank
project processing procedures and requirements. Similarly, continuity in project development is being
assured through the Bank Project preparation team which has collaborated with the counterpart team in
articulating the findings of the World Bank Country Study: China - Higher Education Reform (September
1997). Within the context of the Project, technical assistance has been built into the preparation process
thereby increasing understanding of Bank guidelines, procedures and processes. MOE and the Project
universities have established and strengthened the functions and staff of Project Implementation Offices
(PIOs) for project preparation and implementation. This demonstrates their seriousness and commitment to
the ongoing reform efforts in the country and to the Project. MOE, advised by the Bank, has developed a
detailed Project Implementation Plan (PIP) which is seen as their working document.
5.  Value added of Bank support in this project:
* The Bank's support is intended to initiate major reforms system-wide, and reinforce Government's strategy in
higher education. Other donors are providing grants or loans for technical assistance and for
experimentation of new ideas through pilot projects. The proposed Credit/Loan complements their activities
(for example, work on quality management by British Council). Past experience provides evidence that Bank
support provides a strong magnet for attracting funds from other donors. This would buttress efforts to bring
international experience to Project universities through the promotion of linkages, exchanges, partnerships.
*  The Project complements ongoing Government reforms in higher education at the post-graduate level,
particularly in the context of the Government's "Project 211 " effort. Project 21 1 does not address specific
software aspects of curriculum and teaching reform at the undergraduate level, focusing largely on the
enhancement of physical infrastructure. The Project provides the impetus for Government reforms in
curriculum and teaching methodology, management and finance.
* The Bank brings valuable international experience with regard to science and engineering development,
international higher education consortia information, and management information systems.



18
E: Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
Economic evaluation methodology:     [x] Cost Benefit Analysis     IRR = 20%      NPV = US$108.5
Economic Analysis (see Annex 4 for details). Due to the data structure and the large number of non-quantifiable
variables arising from promoting quality improvements in higher education, appropriate proxies have been identified
to capture the direct and indirect benefits of the Project. Economic benefits of the project are estimated by
quantifying (a) cost savings at the institutional level due to improvements to the quality of undergraduate science and
engineering programs introduced progressively through Project implementation, and improved management and
administrative efficiency through the introduction of management information system (MIS) suited to proposed
reforms. Direct benefits of staff training for teaching faculty and management staff for adopting new
teaching/learning techniques are also included here, as are the advantages reaped by Project universities and partner
institutions as a result of partnership linkages; and (b) The increase in incremental earnings of graduates who have
been through a system with quality oriented reforms in teaching/learning such that they are empowered with creative
minds, adaptable and flexible to the emerging needs of a changing labor market. Assumptions for incremental
earnings of university graduates that arise from the Project are based on estimated earnings of graduates from higher
education institutions of varying quality, in economically advanced as well as less advanced geographical areas due
to the highly dispersed nature of higher education institutions. A quantitative sensitivity analysis undertaken to test
the vulnerability of the analysis to critical Project risks shows that the analysis is particularly sensitive to wage
differential attributed to graduates.
2. Financial
Financial Analysis (see Annex 4 for details). Financial sustainability analysis for institutions and macro fiscal
analysis show that the Project would have a positive impact on the higher education sub-sector without unduly
burdening the repayment capacity of Project universities and the Government (see Tables C and D of Annex 4).
Incremental recurrent costs resulting from the Project are within the projected budgets of both the government and the
Project universities. Since tuition fees have become an officially mandated cost recovery mechanism since 1997, and
considering that by the end of project implementation most students would be paying tuition fees, revenues for
Project universities would increase in the future. Moreover, the added revenue-earning capacity for Project
universities and partner institutions from research contracts as a result of trained faculty, better quality equipment and
laboratory facilities would contribute to the overall financial sustainability of Project benefits, ensuring that proposed
reforms are sustained beyond the life of the Project. A streamlined financial management system suited to the
emerging needs and complexities of institutional administration would introduce appropriate monitoring measures for
both MOE and the Bank.
3.  Technical
[x] None
4.  Institutional
Addressing institutional weaknesses during project implementation: The stage has already been set by providing
appropriate information to the Project universities and the borrower, with regard to some of the crucial details
about project implementation. However, concern remains about a number of issues:
Lateral interactions within and between universities. Previous Bank-supported education projects have shown a high
degree of compartmentalization among and within the various implementing agencies. The current Project has been
designed with special attention to dissemination mechanisms and communication channels with regard to research,
development of textbooks, and national level seminars to address this traditional weakness in lateral interactions.
Coordination between MOE and Project universities. The Bank Task Team is working with the MOE Task Team to
ensure that implementation arrangements take proper cognizance of the weakness in coordination between MOE and



19
Project universities. The large number of project universities located in various provinces, some of which have
barely adequate communication facilities, would exacerbate the situation. The Bank Task Team has brought this
aspect to MOE's attention and has stressed the need for better communication in order to strengthen project
coordination.
Financial Management Review. In accordance with the Bank OP/BP 10.02 guidelines and the Guide for Review and
Design of Accounting and Reporting system for World Bank Financed Projects (December 1997), an evaluation of
the Financial Management System of the Project (see Annex 7), including review of internal control, project
accounting, planning, budgeting, financial reporting system and staffing have been carried out. Auditing and Special
Account arrangements and related disbursement issues were covered in the assessment. The financial management
system assessment confirms that the Project has satisfied the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
Moving the Special Account to FILO/MOE from MOF should help reduce the period between application for
reimbursement by project entities to disbursement from the Special Account; and the distribution of the financial
operations manual with detailed guidelines on accounting procedures to all project universities would address this
weakness. Agreement has been reached for the Bank to receive semi-annual reports on the progress of the project,
using the Project Management Reporting (PMR) format agreed by MOF, FILO's Finance Division and the Bank (also
in Annex 7). With the agreement of MOF, the Bank would provide software and training to FILO and all project
entities. The software would be available by the end of June 1999.
Procurement Review. A Procurement Agency Capacity Assessment including an overall risk assessment on
procurement cycle management, organizational function and staffing and general procurement environment was
conducted at Project appraisal. The review identified issues pertaining to procurement planning, process and
procurement cycle management. An action plan has been developed to address identified deficiencies. A summary
of the issues including risk assessment and recommended actions are available in Project Files.
5.  Social
In compliance with the region's operational guidelines and to ensure maximum stakeholder participation, a social
assessment (SA) study was designed and carried out in September/October 1998. The study is available in the
Project Files. The objective of the study was to confirm that project design reflects relevant social concerns
pertaining to issues such as equity, student preferences, and quality of higher education. Based on the facts gathered
in the study and analysis of the issues identified, the assessment confirmed the appropriateness of the overall project
objectives and recommended interventions for best achieving these objectives: (a) The partnership program between
the host institutions and their partners in poor and disadvantaged areas was important and was institutionalized under
the Project as a prerequisite for the host institutions implementing Component I in the Project; (b) Student assistance
program should be developed or strengthened to help the poor, needy, and ethnic minority students for their ongoing
studies; and (c) Project Universities should develop a participatory process and mechanism in project design
implementation and evaluation to ensure fuller participation of students, teachers and other stakeholder groups.
As a result of the study, the decision was taken to (i) give added attention to poor partner institutions by expanding
the collaborative activities into a component with its own monitoring indicators; and (ii) share with other institutions
the outcomes of the pilot Lanzhou University Student Loan Scheme which is scheduled to have an interim report
from FILO to Project Universities and Partners at mid-term.
6.  Environmental
a.  Environmental issues:
(i) This is a category 'C' project. The Project focuses on reform of undergraduate science and engineering
programs in Higher Education Institutions. No adverse environmental consequences are anticipated.
b.  Resettlement:
[x] None



20
There will be no resettlement under the project. Remodeling and rehabilitation of existing lab facilities will be
financed by the project but not land acquisition.
7.  Participatory Approach:
a.  Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: Direct, primary beneficiaries would be students, teachers,
research, managerial and academic staff of project universities, and officials at central and local levels who are part of
the management corpus. The Task Team met with students and officials during site visits to 11 universities. During
the identification/preparation, pre-appraisal, and appraisal missions the Bank team met with representatives from all
28 project universities and some partner institutions, individually by institution and in clusters to refine the Project
objectives, outcomes and activities. The discussions were based on strategic development plans prepared by the
Project universities in consultation with poor partner institutions where appropriate. Consultations with students,
teachers and management staff of project universities and some partner institutions helped to define project
components and activities. Beneficiaries signaled levels of implementation capacity for reforms and the strengths and
constraints of beneficiaries have been taken into consideration in preparing the Project Implementation Plan. During
pre-appraisal the Bank Team provided technical assistance to institutional project teams to help them refine the
curriculum, teaching and management reform elements of the Project.
b.  Other key stakeholders: In the process of completing the Social Assessment Study stakeholder analysis was
conducted to identify primary project beneficiaries and other relevant stakeholders. The objective was to examine the
interaction between them in the context of the Project. Apart from the primary stakeholders identified, students'
families, employers, and local communities representing disadvantaged and poor areas are the important social strata
directly affecting or affected by any changes in universities. Through a series of topic surveys and interviews,
consultations were held with the identified groups to determine their interests and needs, specifically, to solicit their
views on access to higher education, learning environment in universities, institutional management and teaching
quality, and their attitudes toward overall higher education reform and the specific reform actions proposed under the
Project. The analysis and consultations together helped to ensure that Project objectives and incentives for change
are in demand and acceptable to the range of intended beneficiaries, and that the proposed reforms within the scope
of the Project take into consideration gender, ethnicity, and other social differences.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1.  Sustainability
Cost recovery mechanisms have been introduced into the higher education system since 1995. A system of tuition
fee is now being implemented. This would ensure a gradual increase in the real income of higher education
institutions. At present students enrolled in university up to 1995 do not pay tuition fees. When this crop of students
graduates in 1999, the entire student body enrolling in universities would be required to pay tuition fees. Moreover,
absolute enrollments in universities are expected to increase in the future. The anticipated growth in real income of
institutions would increase their ability to sustain project reforms in teaching and learning. Details on financial
sustainability are available in Annex 4.



21
2.              Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                               Risk        Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
Component I                                    Risk identified at preparation has been reduced although it still exists. Seminars and
Project entities might focus on    M           workshops have helped to clarify the need for project entities to focus on implementing
equipment purchase to the detriment of         reforms. Monitoring by FILO with assistance from the HEAP would comprise key
implementing reform objectives.                experts/specialists who would provide an important guiding function in the various
discipline areas ensuring an integrated approach to reform activities.
Component HI                                   Project universities have developed partnership programs, working cooperatively with
Developing and sustaining productive   M       teams from partner institutions. Building consensus was an important element during
lateral relationships with partner             preparation.
institutions in poor areas linked closely
with ensuring adequate levels of               Previous lateral interactions have been based to some extent on income generation (fees
counterpart funds for partner institution     for training, sharing of equipment). More recently the 'hand by hand' policy has
activities                                     encouraged more professional, collegial relationships. Both MOE and project
M          universities are committed to identification and use of counterpart funds. Project
Universities have allocated 5 percent and more of total project cost to this component.
Component Iff
Competitive funding mechanism as   N           Dialogue initiated during identification and preparation mission highlighted support for
basic principle for awarding contracts        this approach at senior official level (including Vice-Ministerial level). This was
for textbook and instructional materials       confirmed at pre-appraisal with MOE developing a set of guiding principles for this
development                                    activity and the MOE proposal at appraisal provided guidelines for the process and a
time-bound scheme of action.
Systemic difficulty of initiating and          MOE commitment as well as that of the core group of experienced leading universities
sustaining lateral relationships among   M     would support this initiative. Support for improving communication through improved
project universities (and others)             technology is evident from proposals and funding commitment.
Number of candidate institutions still         At workshops & seminars with all participating institutions during preparation mission,
convinced that loan/credit funds (which        Bank team shared wealth of international experience citing universities they are familiar
would have to be repaid) should result   S     with. MOE high-level and operation level commitment has helped to a large extent to re-
in concrete assets, i.e. in this case          orient thinking and finalized proposals demonstrate this re-orientation.
equipment. 'Soft' elements should not
figure in Bank project.
Y2K awareness in both project      M           MOE has stressed that the document regarding China's National Program for Y2K issued
universities as well as partner                by the Ministry of Information Industry has been disseminated among the institutions
institutions                                   under MOE's jurisdiction. The Bank's pre-appraisal team confirmed that project
universities are aware of the issue. However, there needs to be greater emphasis and
coordinated action on the Y2K issue. The Bank team has urged MOE to continue its
efforts to raise awareness and assist the participating institutions to develop action plans
to address the issue.
Overall Risk Rating                M          _
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G. Main Loan Conditions
*   The Borrower shall maintain the FILOIMOE and the PlOs at the institutional level, and the HEAP
throughout the project.
* MOE shall furnish to the Bank, an annual action plan for review and approval no later than November I each
year.
* MOE shall prepare and furnish to the Bank an Annual Progress Report no later than April I each year, with
format and monitoring indicators agreed with the Bank.
* The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank two six-month Project Management Reports no later than May I and
November 1 each year using agreed formats.
* The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, no later than June 30 each year an Audit Report acceptable to the
Bank.



22
MOE shall, no later than March 31, 2002 carry out a Mid-term Review (MTR) of the
project in accordance with agreed Terms of Reference (TOR) and furnish the Bank the
MTR report within 3 months thereafter.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The series of workshops at the national level, and site visits during project preparation and pre-
appraisal phase, have ensured that MOE, project universities as well as partner institutions are
fully conversant with the details of project design and the elements of the proposed reforms.
Project design was based on information sharing, exchange of views, and wide consultation. Key
members of the Bank and MOE Task Teams have prepared and implemented previous Bank
projects and their experience provides a strong foundation for the implementation of the
Project. It has been agreed that during the Project Launch Workshop planned for July 1999,
implementing agencies would receive complete details about project procurement,
disbursement, financial audits and other Bank stipulated procedural requirements to reinforce
the various aspects of project implementation. An agreed manual for financial management
rules has been distributed to all Project universities. Action plans for 1999 have been reviewed
and accepted. Procurement plans for the first ICB are well in hand as are training plans for
study tours and project management.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies. These include: (a) A financial
management system review in keeping with OP/BP 10.02 (section C.4[iv]; Annex 7); (b) A
thorough procurement review (section C.4[vil; Annex 8); (c) Financial and economic analyses to
ensure feasibility and sustainability of the Project (section E.2; Annex 4); and (d) A social
assessment study to confirm that project design incorporates stakeholders' views on higher
education reform (section E.5).
Tat k Team Leader/Tas Manager: Hena Mukherjee
Sector Manager: Alan Ruby
Co   ry Director: Yukon Huang



23
Appendix A
CHINA: HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Criteria for Selection of Project Institutions
Overall targeting guideline:
Universities were selected based on strong partnership programs with poorer institutions or be willing to form and
sustain such partnerships: programs were defined to meet project objectives
External to the Institution:
I+    Location in a poor province
+      Location under a poor Ministry
+      Geographical spread of universities in a given province
Specific to the Institution:
+      Quality of the Strategic Plan and the extent to which the project is related to it
+      Existence of time-bound action plans to remedy deficiencies
+      Ranking on an efficiency scale (SSR's, support staff ratios, equipment use, resource sharing)
+      The lack of a computerized library
+      Participation in local partnerships (HEIs or industry)
+      Track record in dissemination of teaching practices, new curriculum content or management ideas
+      Academic climate: eg., relative number of staff working on higher degrees, research and publications
activity, scale of academic exchanges internationally
+      Connection to CERNET (China Education and Research Net)
+/-    Scale of income generated, related to location
-      Receipt of funds under previous Bank-financed projects
-      Receipt of additional funding allocations from domestic projects
1 '+' signifies a positive weighting for the factor indicated and '-' a negative weighting while '+/-' could go either
way. For example, it would be negative for a university located in a thriving economic environment with a high level
of university-generated income and positive for a university located in a poor province with few opportunities to
generate high levels of revenue.



List of Project & Partner Institutions
Project Institutions                                                Partner Institution
No.             Name              l   Location          Jurisdiction                 Name                    Location            Province
01    Beijing Univ.                Beijing            MOE                Inner-Mongolia Univ.            Hohhot              Inner-Mongolia
National Sci. &
02    Beijing Aeronautics Univ.     Beijing          Industry Comm.    Guizhou Industry Univ.            Guiyang
03    Beijing Sci. & Tech. Univ.   Beijing            MOE                Baotao Iron & Steel College     Baotao
National Sci. &
04    Beijing Inst. of Tech.       Beijing           Industry Comm.      Yan'an Educational College      Yan'an              Shaanxi
05    Beijing Normal Univ.          Beijing           MOE                Northwest Normal Univ.          Xi'an               Shaanxi
Ministry of Public
06    Beijing Medical Univ.        Beijing            Health             Inner-Mongolia Medical College   Hohhot             Inner-Mongolia
07    Dalian Univ. of Tech.         Dalian            MOE                Dalian Nationalities Inst.      Dalian
08    Southeast Univ.              Nanjing            MOE                Yancheng Engineering College    Yancheng            Jiangsu
09    Fudan Univ.                   Shanghai          MOE                Yunnan Univ.                    Kunming             Yunnan
National Sci. &
10   Harbin Inst. of Tech.         Harbin            Industry Comm.    Heilongjiang Mineralogy College
11    Huazhong Inst. of Tech.      Wuhan              MOE                Hubei Three Gorges Inst.
12   Jilin Univ.                   Changchun         MOE                 Jilin Normal College           Changchun            Jilin
13   Jilin Univ. of Tech.          Changchun          MOE                Yanbian Univ.                                       Jilin
14   Lanzhou Univ.                 Lanzhou            MOE                Lanzhou Railway Inst.           Lanzhou
L
Location and Province information to be provided by Ministry of Education at negotiations.



Project Institutions                                             Partner Institution
No.
Name                 Location        Jurisdiction               Name                    Location          Province
Qinghai Normal Univ.                             Qinghai
________________    ________________  Ningxia  Univ.                                 Ningxia
Xinjiang Univ.                Urumqi             Xinjiang
15   Nanjing Univ.               Nanjing           MOE               Guangxi Normal Univ.          Guilin              Guangxi
16   Nankai Univ.                Tianjin           MOE               Yunnan Normal Univ.           Kunming             Yunnan
17   Qingdao Ocean Univ.         Qingdao           MOE               Liaocheng Teacher's College   Liaocheng
18   Tsinghua Univ.              Beijing           MOE               Yunnan Univ. of Industry      Kunming
Baoji Inst. of Liberal Arts &
19   Shaanxi Normal Univ.        Xi'an             MOE               Engineering                   Baoji
20   Shanghai Jiaotong Univ.      Shanghai         MOE               Xinjiang Univ.                Urumqi              Xinjiang
21   Sichuan Univ.                Chengdu          MOE               Xichang Agricultural College  Xichang
22   Tianjin Univ.                Tianjin          MOE               Inner-Mongolia Polytech. Univ.   Hohhot
23   Wuhan Univ.                  Wuhan            MOE               Yunyang Teacher's College     Yunyang
Ningxia Northwest Second
24   Xi'an Jiaotong Univ.         Xi'an            MOE               Minorities Inst.
25   Zhejiang Univ.               Hangzhou         MOE               Anhui Univ.                   Hefei               Anhui
26   China Univ. of Sci. & Tech.  Hefei            China Academy of  Anhui Normal Univ.            Wuhu                Anhui
Science
State Bureau of
27   Mining & Tech. Univ.         Xuzhou           Coal Industry     Xuzhou Vocational Univ.       Xuzhou              Jiangsu
Ministry of Rural &
28   Chongqing                    Chongqing        MOE               Chongqing Architecture Univ.  Chongqing           Urban Construction
Environment
Protection



26
Annex 1
China: Higher Education Reform Project
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary                 Key Performance Indicators            Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
A. Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                  (Goal to Bank Mission)
Relevance to growing technology-                                                             There are no 'disconnects'
based market economy                                                                         between CAS objectives
and the Bank mission
B. Project Development Objective:                                                            (Objective to Goal)
Quality and relevance of          B. 1 75% of project universities   B. 1. I Annual Reports,    There is both understanding
undergraduate basic science and   (PUs) and partner institutions (Pls)    MOE/HEAP/ lAP/Bank   of and agreement on the
engineering programs improved     use the curricula reviewed/renewed    on site visits and mid-  characteristics of integrated
mechanism on a regular basis by   term review and project   reform activities and the
EOP.                              completion review       development of proposals
by PUs and Pls based on
such understanding ensures
ownership.
B.2 75% of institutions have      B.2. 1 As Above
adopted and implemented relevant
reform programs by EOP.
B.3 75% of previously identified  B.3. 1 As Above
Teaching/learning/ management good
practices used by PUs and by at least
70% of Pls by EOP.
C. Outputs:
I. Curricula reviewed and developed   C. 1.1 75% of courses restructured in   C. 1 . 1. Documents from    C. I New skills are used in
terms of content, instructional   the University Curricula   accordance with reform
materials and teaching approaches on   Committee          plans.
a regular basis/annually by EOP
2. System for updating curricula  C.2. 1 100% of review committees   C.2. 1. Records of      C.2 MOE/ Institutions
established                       Established by the end of project  Committee meetings      continued commitment to
Year 1.                                                   reform agenda.
3. Staff updating & training program    C.3.1 90% number of university and   C.3.1 List of   C.3 Administrative
designed and operational          MOE managers trained in relevant   participants            structure facilitates
reform subjects by EOP                                    replication/
C.3.2 90% of academic staff trained    C.3.2 As Above     Adaptation of reforms
in relevant subjects and teaching
methodologies by EOP
C.3.3 90% of lab managers/        C.3.3 As Above
Technicians and librarians trained in
relevant technical areas by EOP
4. Cross institutional collaborative  C.4. 1 28 sets of partnerships between  C.4. I Document of
partnerships established          PUs and Pls established and        agreement
operational by end of project year I
C.4.2 At least 70% of the         C.4.2 Stakeholder
partnerships achieve their program  Workshop (mid-term
objectives by EOP                 review and end of
project)              ;



27
Narrative Summary                 Key Performance Indicators            Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
C. Outputs (contd/-):
5. Capacity building program      C.5.1 75% of textbooks, electronic    C.5.1 As Above       C.5.1 New skills are used
designed and implemented          management/teaching materials                             in accordance with reform
produced, tested and made available                       plans.
for distribution by EOP
C.5.2 A graduate tracking system                          C.5.2 MOE/ Institutions
(tracer study mechanisms), an                             continued commitment to
institutional evaluation system, a set                    reform agenda.
of financial indicators are tested in x
number of institutions and results                        C.5.3 Administrative
disseminated among PUs & PIs                              structure facilitates
replication/
Adaptation of reforms
6. Good practices in teaching/    C.6. 1 50% of good practices in    C.6. 1 As Above
learning and management identified    Teaching/learning/management
identified are disseminated by mid-
term review and 80% by EOP
7. Infrastructure upgraded        C.7.1 60% labs and experimental    C.7.1 Progress reports
Centers restructured and upgraded  on procurement
(equipment) by mid-term review and   (FILOIMOE)
90% by EOP
D. Inputs
Reform activities under following
three components:
Refer Appendix 1. I to 1.4 of this  PUs, Pls, FILO/MOE,   D. I Financial and material
1.  Achieving improvement in      Annex for details.                assisted by HEAP, all    resources are available on
teaching and learning.                                          with annual reporting   time.
2.  Using partnerships and networks                                  responsibilities.       D.2 Counterpart funds are
to spread reform.                                                                        available in a timely
3.  Supporting institutional capacity                                                        manner.
for change.                                                                              D.3 Continuity of key
implementation staff.
D.4 New equipment is
An integrated part of the
reform.



Appendix 1.1: Project Performance Indicators for UPs'
Project University                        1997               1999             2002               2004
Planned  Actual   Planned  Actual   Planned  Actual  Planned  Actual
Ratio of Master Degree Holders
Among Full-time Faculty2
Ratio of Doctoral Degree
Holders Among Full-time Faculty3
Ratio of Students to Full-timeFaculty
Ratio of Students to Total Staff
Ratio of TTTBC4
Ratio of TAP5
Number of Updated Courses
Number of Updated &
Developed Titles of Textbooks
Ratio of CWRE6
Ratio of OSB7
Annual borrowed volumes
'Project university
This is based on Table 7: Project Effective Indicators (I) in project university proposals.
2 The ratio should not be repeated in 2.
3 See note 1.
4 Cumulative number of teachers trained for basic courses.
5 Cumulative number of trained administrators
6 Courses with reformed examination.
7 Open shelve books.



Appendix 1.2: Project Performance Indicators for PU Laboratories'
Name of Project         Year        Ratio of REI8     Ratio of    Majors Served     Students Served    Total Hours       AOSIL Person
University                                          LUSER9                                          Open Per Week    '°/Hours/Per Year
Name of Lab Center                  Plan Actual     Plan Actual  Plan  Actual       Plan   Actual     Plan   Actual     Plan   Actual
1997
Basic Physics           1999
2002
2004
Basic Environmental     1997
Chemistry               1999
2002
2004
Basic Environmental     1997
Biology                 1999
2002
2004
Basic Mechanics &       1997
Machinery               1999
2002
2004
Engineering Training    1997
1999
2002
2004
Electronics & Electricity   1997
1999
2002
2004
Electronic Information  1997
Science                 1999
2002
2004
Multimedia Network      1997
1999
2002
2004
Language Laboratory     1997
1999
2002
2004
This is based on Table7: Project effective Indicators (II) in project universities proposals
8 Cumulative Number of Renewed Experiment Items
9 Labs. Up to Safety and Environmental Requirement
° AOSIL: Admission of students in labs.



Appendix 1.3: Project Performance Indicators for Pls''
Project University              1997               1999               2002               2004
Partner UJniversity      Planned  Actual   Planned  Actual   Planned  Actual   Planned   Actual
Number of Teachers
Trained for PI (long-term)'2
Number of Teachers Trained
For PI (short-term)
Number of Students
Served for Experiment/
Practical Work
Value of equipment
13Donated
Number of Teachers
Dispatched for Lecture
Number of Updated
Courses in P1
Number of Updated
Textbook Titles in PI
1 Partner Institution
12 Degree training is included.
'3 Each project university is asked to choose a minimum of four of the columns to fill in.



Appendix 1.4: Project Performance Indicators for NTA'4
Project University             1997              1999              2002               2004
Partner University      Planned  Actual   Planned  Actual  Planned  Actual  Planned  Actual
Project Management
Training
Number of Staff Trained
Curriculum Reform &
Textbook Development
a. Number of Research
Studies Completed and
Disseminated for Curriculum
Reform
b. Number of Textbooks
Developed
Number of Study Tours
Completed
Number of Dissemination
Post-tour Workshops
Conducted
Number of Studies
Completed'5 and findings
disseminated
Student Loan Pilot'6                             2002                    2004
Number of Applicants
Disaggregated by gender
Number of Beneficiaries
Disaggregated by gender
Amount Disbursed Annually
Amount of Repayment Annually
14 National-level Technical Assistance
' Monographic stuides.
16 Student Loan Pilot Scheme at Lanzhou University



32
Annex 2
CHINA: HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Project Description
Component 1: Achieving Improvement in Teaching and Learning (Base Cost: US$84.0m)
This component would enable Project Universities (PUs) to introduce a series of reform measures to
improve the quality and relevance of science and engineering programs through restructuring the
curriculum, reduction of narrow specializations, and the introduction of integrative interdisciplinary
courses. The effectiveness of the learning and teaching process would be improved by adopting
student-centered strategies, and making the laboratories, computer facilities and the library services
more readily accessible. The component would also enable institutions to acquire new equipment for
first and second year science and engineering programs and to establish "integrated" experimental
centers where reforms in laboratory experiments would be introduced, including open-ended and
design-oriented projects. The component is designed with the aim of satisfying frequent demands
from industrial employers for university graduates who are more creative and practical, who are better
able to work in teams, and who have a broader knowledge base.
The overall objectives of the component would be achieved through four sub-components:
(a) Restructuring ofAcademic Programs: The systematic restructuring of academic programs
and the continuous development of their curricula is the cornerstone of any sound reform
strategy. The proposed elements of this sub-component include initiatives related to ensuring
the relevance of programs and curricula, and others related to the restructuring of programs:
(i)  Improving the relevance of academic programs and curricula. Decision-making in
connection with the restructuring of university science and engineering programs
requires insight into the links between education and job performance. These links may
be revealed by monitoring employers' opinions about the relevance of the graduates'
knowledge and skills as well as the graduates' own assessment of the quality and
relevance of their education. During discussions with individual universities it became
clear that many had developed commendable feedback mechanisms from the graduates
of science and engineering programs and their employers. With the increasing
availability of e-mail such mechanisms can be further improved and may easily cover
the whole world. Strengthening alumni organizations, including the establishment of an
alumni database, alumni newsletters and alumni internet web sites may further improve
the feedback. Finally, creating or strengthening external and industrial advisory
committees or boards for each program to provide advice on the relevance of the
program and curriculum may facilitate access to employers' experiences.
(ii) Supporting continuous curriculum development and improvement. The continuous
improvement of the curriculum for each program may be supported by the establishment
of program-specific curricular development and improvement committees and by
emphasizing the feedback link between inputs (from students, graduates and employers)
and strategic curricular improvement decisions. In order to provide time for this task,
curriculum development must be accepted as an integral component of teaching
faculty's workload. Finally, input on the most recent development within each field
may be achieved by improving the link between research and teaching in the first two
years of undergraduate science and engineering programs.



33
(iii) Restructuring of academic programs. There was widespread agreement among the PUs
that the formal program content in science and engineering programs had to be
broadened and reorganized. In particular, a strengthening of the practical aspects and
the fundamental concepts within each subject would be necessary. This might be
facilitated by a reduction of the number of specialized programs as well as the amount
of formal, scheduled hours.(especially lectures) in each program that would provide
students with time for individual and group learning. Important actions in this
connection are:
*  Strengthening the "applied" aspects of academic subjects, in particular by allowing more
time (and freedom) for the students in the laboratory.
*  Introducing "integrative" interdisciplinary courses. Typical examples of such courses in
the first two years of academic programs would be Engineering Science or
Environmental Science.
*  Monitoring the need for general education courses and strengthening the most relevant of
these, for example management of technology, economics, international trade, and
foreign languages.
*  Improving the horizontal and vertical integration among course and introducing
interdisciplinary employer-supported projects in science and engineering programs.
•  Establishing a process of self-evaluation of the academic programs' structure and
contents using prevailing international standards.
(b) Reforming Learning Strategies: Reforms of learning/teaching processes starting with
curricular development include support to teaching staff; evaluation of teaching reforms and
dissemination of outcomes to other universities; and integration of new equipment with
reform approaches to learning and teaching. The actions taken or planned include, for
example,
(i) A shift from teacher-centered to student-centered learning strategies. In terms of
improving the learning processes, essentially all universities have stressed the importance
of a transition from teacher-centered to interactive student-centered learning strategies.
One important component of this transition is the introduction of student group work that,
among other positive outcomes, is likely to improve the "social skills" of the students.
Most students today are from single child families. This may explain why employers in
recent years have noted a frequent lack of such skills among young university graduates.
As regards support to teaching staff, while the students are likely to applaud most of the
changes in curricula and learning strategies, the reforms would place a heavy load on
many university teachers. It is therefore important that relevant incentives such as annual
rewards for excellence in teaching be provided. In terms of evaluating the reforms, many
universities have reported that they either have had to put in place or were planning a
strengthening of continuous peer and student evaluations of curricula and the
teaching/learning performance of faculty. Peer evaluations are usually expected to be
performed by the university's own staff or by retired professors. It might, however, be
worthwhile considering an "external examiner system" by inviting academic staff from
other PUs to take place in the evaluation. This might greatly enhance the exchange of
experiences among PUs. Similarly, it is important that studies of the outcomes of the
new pedagogical experiments (in comparison with traditional methods) be carried out



34
and disseminated so that all PUs, as well as other Chinese universities can benefit from
lessons learned.
(ii) Improvement of the quantity, quality, and relevance of laboratory experimental work,
supported by an improvement of laboratory equipment and safety. Since the Project
planning stage, this aspect has been considered a key to success. Student access to
laboratories should increase, and the quality of laboratory equipment must be improved,
and the relevance of laboratory experiments and projects are enhanced by integrating
them in the reformed curricula. Another important improvement would be obtained by
changing the balance between directed, "verifying" and/or repetitive experiments, often
considered to be boring by students, and open-ended, design-oriented projects in the
laboratories. The provision of new equipment is a necessary condition for the successful
updating and expansion of student laboratory work. In many cases this may provide
important incentives to academic staff who would have to work very hard in order to
ensure the successful implementation of the reforms. Issues which surfaced during
discussions with project institutions:
*  In many cases the new equipment would be placed in new buildings (financed within the
scope of the Government's Project 211 plan or through other university-generated
income) or in refurbished laboratories. It is important that the infrastructure is in place
prior to the delivery of equipment.
-  Use of planned new equipment would be straightforward for responsible university staff.
Proper training must therefore be provided to the relevant staff, prior to the delivery of
equipment. In many cases equipment suppliers may provide such training at no cost.
-  It is expected that in numbers, most equipment would be produced in China. Based on
earlier experiences among PUs, the balance in value between indigenously produced and
foreign equipment may be more even. However, it must be kept in mind that earlier
procurements primarily covered more specialized research equipment and that Chinese
instrument producers have made considerable progress in recent years.
-  Many Chinese universities have strong traditions in producing indigenous teaching
equipment. In some, but not all, cases such home-produced equipment is both
pedagogically better and/or may be produced at lower costs than comparable commercial
instruments. In addition, locally produced equipment is easier to service and maintain. It
is important that the opportunities in this connection are fully utilized, even if local
production must be funded by sources other than the Bank loan.
(iii)Laboratory Safety and Environment. Earlier, laboratory safety and environmental issues
received limited attention in many Chinese university laboratories. Although it was often
not clear from the proposals (partly because the costs would be covered by other
sources), many universities had already initiated considerable improvements with respect
to laboratory safety and environment. The environmental and safety practices which
students are exposed to in their laboratory work are an essential and increasingly
important part of their education. These issues, therefore, must be properly dealt with in
all laboratory instructions and manuals, and laboratory safety as well as the handling and
disposal of hazardous chemicals must be up-to-date in university laboratories. These
issues often are an integral part of proper laboratory modernization. The introduction of
"microscale" techniques in chemistry and some biology laboratories may not only
increase safety and reduce environmental risks, but may also lead to substantial savings



35
in the budget for chemicals. Several PUs are now in the process of adopting this
technique.
(iv) Reforming student examinations through the introduction of more student-centered
testing and evaluation strategies. An important change that has already taken place in
many PUs is the adoption of a flexible course credit system that simplifies testing and
evaluation of students' academic performance. Many universities are also presently
engaged in reforms of the testing and examination system within individual courses to
make them more learner-centered, continuous and flexible. The difficulty in performing
individual evaluations of students engaged in group work is by many considered a severe
obstacle to a further increase in student group projects. An exchange of experiences in
this area between PUs may be needed.
(c) Improving learning opportunities and conditions: Students' learning environment would be
enhanced to allow for greater self-directed learning through the provision of appropriate
learning-support services and conditions; and textbooks and other instructional materials
(including CAI [computer aided instruction] materials) would be improved and updated.
Improvements in the learning environment for individual students may provide essential
support for the reforms. The Project aims to improve the environment for self-directed
learning and to enhance learning-support services.
v  Improving and updating textbooks. PUs have plans for extensive textbook renewal in
some cases also of similar material (e.g., CAI) in electronic form. Some science and
engineering subjects are changing fast and require regular updating of curricula and
textbooks; the reforms makes such updating even more necessary. However, production
of good textbooks for first and second year students is not a simple matter and it would
be wasteful if it is repeated at all PUs. The MOE could play an important role in the
coordination and quality assurance aspects of textbook production.
- Improving the environment for self-directed learning. Essentially all PUs are in the
process of reducing the amount of time students spend in traditional lectures, typically by
50-100 hours per year, in order to increase the time available for self- and group study.
These efforts may be further supported by extended access to computer facilities and
library resources and by increasing the availability of computer-based course support in
individual or internet modes for individual learning. Furthermore, in order to improve
the applied aspects of the studies, efforts are being made in the majority of the PUs to
provide more open access to laboratories. This would be even more valuable after they
acquire improved equipment.
•  Improving learning-support services. Some universities have already started to conduct
seminars and workshops facilitated by pedagogical experts to assist students and faculty
in improving the learning/teaching processes, or have already established open-access
"leaming" centers staffed by junior faculty and senior graduate students to provide
assistance and support to students. All PUs plan to use a portion of project funds to
increase library holdings of modem, relevant textbooks, journals and periodicals.
Finally, most universities are planning to increase the availability of computers and
access to CERNET and similar networks, the Internet, and other computer-based learning
resources.
(d) Upgrading teachers and staff to support the reforms: Continuous training and exchange of
information among academic staff within and across universities including those overseas in
order to assist in the adoption of new learning strategies. Training would be provided in the



36
form of seminars, short-term and long-term programs and overseas study tours where
appropriate. Upgrading of academic and support staff in classrooms, laboratories, and other
learning facilities is essential to ensure positive outcomes of the reforms.
* Adopting new learning strategies. Faculty knowledge and skills within new
learning/teaching and evaluation methodologies may be improved by designing and
delivering an on-going series of courses, workshops and seminars by learning experts in
the field. Similarly, an exchange of experience between PUs may be invaluable. In this,
as well as in other connections, the widespread tradition of inbreeding (hiring of own
graduates) within Chinese universities in unfortunate. For practical purposes, people
rather than journals and networks are more efficient in imparting experience and
knowledge relevant to higher education.
* Training for laboratory staff Laboratory administrators, teaching staff and laboratory
technicians would benefit from targeted courses, workshops and study tours, both in
connection with planned new equipment and the need for improved laboratory safety and
environment. Overseas visits may be helpful for laboratory administrators who can then
disseminate experiences within China. Domestic study tours and workshops may be
relevant for others. It may be worthwhile to negotiate training for equipment suppliers.
Component 2: Using Partnerships and Networks to Spread Reforms (Base Cost: US$S5.3m)
This component provides for the linking of a PU with a less-developed partner institution which is
usually located in a poor, less accessible area to share the benefits of project investments in physical
and human resource development, and to widen the impact of the proposed higher education reforms
initiated in the PU. The partnership linkages and programs are well defined. Collaborative
arrangements jointly developed by Project Universities and their Partners have been reviewed and
accepted. Through this component, the project would have significant multiplier effects which would
bring the benefits from the reforms to be implemented to more institutions.
The 28 PUs would assist in the development of their poorer Partner Institutions (PIs) by disseminating
the reforms implemented by the project institutions and sharing the good practices in curriculum and
academic course and program development as well as improved teaching-learning strategies in basic
science and engineering courses. Details of possible good practice for the partner relationship are
given in Appendix B
An overall program along with annual action plans would be designed jointly by the institutions and
submitted to MOE. The core elements of a partnership arrangement would be:
(a) training PI staff for higher degrees (M.Sc. or Ph.D.) and/or courses in science and
engineering content and teaching methods;
(b) training and/or exchange of students between institutions to participate in teaching/learning
programs and generally for the PIs to use the better equipment and teaching/learning
resources of the PUs;
(c) sharing of resources, reforms in curricula, and teaching/leaming methods, and good practice
in institutional management, including the development and use of computerized systems in
administration; and
(d) development and use of electronic teaching/learning materials and routine electronic
communication between teaching staff and students through CERNET and other networks.



37
For quality improvement in reforms, the Higher Education Advisory Panel (for details about
responsibilities (see Appendix A) would visit selected PIs during project implementation while a
feedback mechanism (using survey instruments such as questionnaires) would be developed.
As an incentive to PUs, MOE would recognize on an annual basis, the best performing PU under the
following five categories of partnership activities: (a) sharing of facilities (classrooms, laboratories
and workshops, libraries and multimedia centers); (b) staff training (lecturers, laboratory technicians,
librarians, administrators); (c) joint research and development programs; (d) technical assistance
(planning laboratory facilities, MIS development and installation, library management, etc.); and (e)
donations (equipment, software, publications).
Expected outcomes: While the standard of laboratory equipment in the partner institution is usually
not the same as that in the PU, it is nevertheless expected that PU staff would be able to help the
partner to adapt the new teaching methods which they develop under the Project. Although there
would be limited potential for new experiments to transfer to the partner, new teaching methods would
be expected to be transferred more easily.
Component 3: Supporting Institutional Capacity for Change (Base Cost: US$4.3m)
Activities under this component, which would be implemented by MOE, are designed to strengthen
institutional planning and administration and central coordination. The component comprises overall
oversight and monitoring of project implementation, centrally-coordinated study tours and
workshops/seminars organized by the Technical Assistance Division of FILO, a program of research
to support policy development, and a program of activities to update the design of courses of study,
develop textbooks and electronic materials. The last two will be spearheaded by the Higher Education
Department of MOE in collaboration with experts from universities. The Higher Education Advisory
Panel (HEAP), which will assist FILO in monitoring and evaluating the entire Project, would have a
particularly important role to play in this component. They will also be active in assisting FILO in
monitoring the Lanzhou University Study Loan Pilot.
I. National-level Technical Assistance Activities. There will be two main categories of project
activities. The first will focus on three groups of staff training: project management, financial
management, and equipment procurement management. The second would deal with study tours and
follow-up dissemination seminars. Each training group involving 84 trainees would participate in
three training sessions, each of 4 days duration scheduled to take place in the second half of 1999,
2001 and 2003. The objective and content of training personnel are as follows:
A. Staff Training:
(a) Project Management Staff: Objective is to enhance the management capacity of all levels of
staff responsible for implementing the project to ensure efficient use of the loan/credit funds
and success in reaching project targets. Training content: (i) Project objectives, contents and
indicators and lessons from previous Bank-funded education projects; (ii) responsibilities and
tasks in all relevant units to facilitate effective project management; and (iii) Data collection
and annual progress reporting.
(b) Financial Management Staff: Objective is to regulate the financial accounting and loan/credit
withdrawal procedures by defining project expenditures and strengthening the supervision
and review of financial management. Training content: (i) Bank disbursement and
reimbursement regulations and procedures; (ii) Basic requirements for project auditing; (iii)
Responsibilities and tasks of each relevant unit in project financial management; and (iv)



38
Exchange of experience and lessons learned between and among former Bank-financed
project universities.
(c) Procurement Management Staff: Objective is to familiarize staff with the procedures and
requirements for procurement and quality guarantee of goods procured. Training content: (i)
Procedures and requirements for procurement under ICB, NCB and prudent shopping; (ii)
Preparation of equipment lists and bidding documents; (iii) Procurement process from
advertising to contract signing and implementation; (iv) Domestic and Bank approval
procedures; (v) Equipment use and maintenance.
B. Study tours and related workshops
MOE is scheduled to organize 21 study tours in 5 key thematic areas. Each tour would have
defined/specific terms of reference, objectives and anticipated outcomes, countries identified and
institutions to be covered, criteria for selection of participants who would most benefit from
institutional and national objectives under the Project, and a post-tour report. The report would assess
the extent to which tour objectives have been achieved and how disseminated.
With regard to the study tour dissemination workshops, their objectives, content and methodology
would be carefully integrated to ensure that there is sufficient learning material (collected from the
study tours) and maximum group discussions and, where appropriate, hands-on practice with CAI
materials. Each workshop would have a summary of the discussions and recommendations and a plan
for follow-up on the recommendations. Guidelines and sample terms of reference for workshops and
study tours are available in the project document file.
The study tours and dissemination workshops would be complementary and carefully integrated to
maximize their learning impact. A clear methodology of how to strengthen the linkage and make both
activities more effective to the success of the tours and dissemination workshops would be understood
and shared by MOE, the PUs and PIs. The study tours would be planned in advance to help ensure
that project implementation brings real benefits to the project institutions. FILO's Technical
Assistance Division has started working on identification of suitable locations for the study visits.
Documents from the study tour and the impact of the tours would provide important information for
FILO's evaluation at mid-term and implementation completion. Following is an outline of the
training program under this section:
(1) University Presidents (31 participants)
Objective: Reform of institutional management and implementation of Teaching Reform.
Duration of Training: 15 days
(2) Director of Teaching Affairs Division (31 participants)
Objective: Reform of curricula, textbooks, teaching methods and examination system reform at
institutional level.
Duration of Training: 15 days
(3) Director of Finance Division (31 participants)
Objective: Improving financial management.
Duration of Training: 15 days



39
(4) Director of Equipment Division (31 participants)
Objective: Reform of laboratory management (improving environment protection, utilization of
instruments and equipment)
Duration of Training: 15 days
(5) Chief of Experiment Center (124 participants)
Objective: Reform of laboratory teaching and management
Duration of Training: 15 days
Details of study tours and dissemination workshops are in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and
in the MOE proposal for Component 3.
II. Policy-based research studies. MOE has identified six research activities to be supported by
the Project, focusing on the following themes:
* development of a system for quality assessment in higher education
* establishment of a textbook renewal mechanism appropriate for a socialist market economy
* managerial autonomy of institutions under legislation
* development of a graduate tracer study
e comprehensive assessment of financial management in higher education institutions
Details on each of the above research areas are available in the PIP.
III. Textbooks and Electronic Materials. One of MOE's key roles would be to coordinate
textbook reform and development activities and ensure adequate dissemination of the most innovative
results to all universities in the country. MOE plans to produce 400 textbooks on 200 basic courses
for use in universities which would include those not covered by the Project with the aim of spreading
reforms beyond PUs and partners. The design of the textbooks would, in each case, be preceded by a
research project looking at the national human resource planning needs in 100 subject areas and
testing a series of experiments where relevant. In this way MOE intends to extend project impact to
the vast majority of non-project and poorly-performing Chinese institutions.
Where textbook renewal mechanisms are concerned, MOE would identify continuous and affordable
mechanisms, independent of intermittent injection of external funding. The process of textbook
development would be based on competitive proposals from applicants throughout the country who
would have to go through a selection process, based on a set of pre-determined criteria. By using such
a mechanism, MOE expects to improve the quality of outputs while working towards changing the
culture of authoritarian assignment towards one of more open competition. Universities in China have
flexibility in textbook development and selection; textbooks are produced by MOE, goups of
universities and individual universities. The likelihood of weak poor-performing institutions using
MOE developed textbooks is high largely due to the fact that they do not all have staff trained/skilled
in textbook selection.
The development of management and teaching software would be split into two distinct activities.
Management software would fall under the overall MIS development activities of MOE and the
various universities, while the development of teaching software would be more closely associated
with the activities supported under the first component of the Project (curriculum reform and
improvement of teaching practices).
IV. Student Loan Pilot Scheme for Lanzhou University. This pilot program is a study that is not
funded by the Bank or the Borrower. With a PHRD Grant of US$ 100,000 to Lanzhou University, this
pilot student loan scheme would offer an alternative to the existing loan scheme. The objectives are



40
to: (a) develop a revolving fund for student financial assistance by making interest-bearing loans
which are repayable within 5 years after graduation; (b) test student preference between the scheme
and the existing scheme which offers interest-free loans that are repayable before graduation, and to
compare the characteristics of these two groups of borrowers; and (c) build-up institutional experience
in managing a revolving fund and tracking repayment.
The Lanzhou University Students Affairs Unit, which handles the existing loan service, would
administer this pilot scheme. The University's MIS would record all the characteristics of loan
applicants and recipients, based on selected monitoring indicators. It would also record the pattern of
repayment and default of both the pilot and existing schemes in order to build up a database for
comparison and policy analysis. The Student Affairs Office of Lanzhou University would report
directly to the University FILO which would present an annual report on the pilot scheme as part of its
consolidated report on the Lanzhou University project financed by the Bank loan, producing an
interim and final report. FILO/MOE will be responsible for monitoring the implementation.
V. Higher Education Advisory Panel (see AppendixA for details).    MOE has established a
Higher Education Advisory Panel (HEAP) which would support MOE-FILO in monitoring and
evaluation of the project. The Panel membership would comprise specialists with acknowledged
expertise in areas relevant to the project components. The attached Appendix A provides the Terms of
Reference for the Panel.



41
Appendix A
CHINA Higher Education Reform Project
Higher Education Advisory Panel
Terms of Reference
The target for the Higher Education Reform Project, organized and coordinated by the Ministry
of Education (MOE), is to improve the teaching and experimental learning conditions of basic science
and engineering courses for the project universities and their partner institutions, improve the quality
of teaching staff, expand textbook and curriculum reforms, and raise the quality and efficiency of
undergraduate teaching and learning. For realizing the project target and ensuring the maximum
benefits of the project, the Higher Education Advisory Panel (HEAP) consisting of Chinese experts
will be formed for providing advisory support to project implementation and management. The
membership of the Chinese experts panel was confirmed at negotiations. The list of the eight Panel
members and their designations are set out in the MOE proposal for Component 3, available in the
Project Files.
I. Basic Responsibilities:
Under the authority of the Ministry of Education, and based on the state-approved project plan,
the Panel will carry out supervision, monitoring and evaluation of project implementation and
management, provide technical support and consulting services for the project universities and their
partners, and offer advice to MOE for improving project implementation and management. The
Panel's specific responsibilities are as follows:
(a)   Supervising and advising on project expenditure, implementation and management of
the project universities;
(b)   Providing advice and technical support for curriculum and textbook reforms, especially
in respect of undergraduate science and engineering curriculum and textbook reforms;
(c)   Monitoring and guiding project partnership programs and giving advice to universities
for the dissemination of program achievements and to ensure that partners receive the
help they need;
(d)   Providing technical and consulting support for improving the campus network of project
universities;
(e)   Ensuring that adequate evaluation takes place; and
(f)   developing standard feedback and dissemination mechanisms such as regular project
bulletins/newsletters, for which the Secretariat (see IV)will provide assistance.
II. Main Tasks
The main tasks are as follows:
(a)   at least one annual site visit to project universities will be undertaken for supervision
and to provide guidance for project implementation with one written report submitted to
MOE. HEAP will ensure that each project university will be visited at least once during
the project period as well as selected partner institutions;



42
(b) at least one annual working meeting will be held for the purpose of making a
comprehensive study and summary of the project activities. The annual working plan
should be submitted to FILO for examination and approval by the end of every year;
(c) by the end of every February, a working report and an annual evaluation report for the
past year should be submitted to MOE;
(d) at mid-term a conference should be organized jointly by FILO, assisted by HEAP and the
Bank, for project and partner university representatives. HEAP should provide FILO
with an updated report for the conference;
(e) on project completion, the advisory panel should assist MOE for evaluation of the project
and the final evaluation report will be submitted to MOE; and
(f) HEAP is to assist FILO in all Project oversight and coordination responsibilities. It
would be desirable for the panel to continue to monitor and evaluate the project beyond
the project period.
Entrusted by the Project Leading Group, FILO will be responsible for the coordination of the activities
undertaken by the Advisory Panel.
III. Panel Members and Their Qualifications
Panel members must have senior professional titles and considerable experience in
undergraduate teaching and management. They must be familiar with World Bank projects or similar
project management procedures. For ease of work, they should also have command of good spoken
English. The Panel will be composed of five or seven members with the following specialties:
(a) being familiar with World Bank, or similar project management and implementation;
(b) having higher education teaching and curriculum reform experiences;
(c) having experience of science and engineering teaching experimental work;
(d) having experience of lab equipment, book procurement and management; and
(e) having experience of higher education planning and financial management.
A Panel leader will be elected and panel candidates will be recommended by relevant MOE
departments. Through consultation between the Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) and
other departments involved, the list will be produced and approved by the Panel leader.
Panel members, appointed for a term of five years, should set aside an average of twenty
working days per year for project consulting service.
IV. Secretariat Establishment
For ensuring smooth and high-quality consulting services, a Panel Secretariat will be set up to
provide logistic support and office work assistance. The Secretariat requirements and qualifications
include:
(a) The Secretariat staff and the university in which it is located will be decided through
consultation between the advisory panel and FILO;



43
(b)  With its head appointed by the Panel leader, the Secretariat will consist of two full-time
staff, and if required, another two or three part-time staff;
(c)  Secretariat staff should have a good command of English and sound knowledge of higher
education teaching, and some experience of World Bank or similar project management;
and
(d)  The Secretariat will be responsible for arranging and coordinating travel and
accommodation for Panel members during Panel site-visits; for keeping effective
communications among the Panel, MOE, project universities and Panel members; for
drafting the Panel's annual supervision mission report; and for file management and
information collection for the Panel members as well as operating, on the Panel's advice,
dissemination mechanisms such as newsletters and periodic bulletins.
Prepared by the Ministry of Education, People's Republic of China



44
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Project Component                          Local           Foreign          Total
A. Achieving Improvement in Effective                           45.0             38.6            83.6
Teaching & Learning
Staff Training                                           4.8                              4.8
Teaching Reforms                                         3.2                              3.2
Lab Equipment                                           19.7            38.2             57.9
Books & Library materials                                4.0             0.4              4.4
Maintenance/parts/consumables                           13.3                             13.3
B. Using Partnership & Networks to Spread Reform                 5.2                              5.2
Partnership Program                                      5.2                              5.2
C. Supporting Institutional Capacity for Change                  2.9              1.3             4.2
Staff Training                                           0.1                              0.1
Study Tours                                                              1.3              1.3
Curriculum & Textbook Development                        2.2                              2.2
Dissemination Workshops                                  0.3                              0.3
Research & Studies                                       0.2                              0.2
Operating Cost for HEAP                                  0.1                              0.1
Loan Charges                                                                      0.2             0.2
Total Baseline Cost                                             53.1             40.0            93.1
Physical Contingencies                                           2.7              3.6             6.4
Price Contingencies                                               1.9             2.9             4.8
Total Project Cost                                              57.7             46.5           104.3



45
Annex 4
CHINA: HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Part I: Economic and Financial Analyses
I .    The objective of the Project is to improve the quality and relevance of undergraduate basic science and
engineering programs through integrated reform activities in curriculum and teaching/learning methodology. While
Project investments would be made primarily at first and second year levels, they would provide the impetus for
embedding reforms across all four years of undergraduate science and engineering programs. The Project would
focus on reforms in curriculum and teaching methodology, and by strengthening planning and management at
institutional and central, Ministry of Education (MOE) levels, would improve capacity to implement reforms in
teaching and learning.
2.     The economic analysis for the Higher Education Reform Project utilizes the Bank's checklist of guidelines
for economic analysis of education project. As part of the preparation of the China: Higher Education Reform
Project, analysis was conducted to assess: (a) the potential economic benefit of investment in the quality of higher
education; (b) the fiscal health of the Government and of participating project institutions; and (c) the ability of
participating project universities to repay their share of the World Bank loan/credit, the availability of counterpart
funding, and the sustainability of project effectiveness; and (d) whether the operation/Project is financially
sustainable. In addition, the analysis was conducted to determine: (a) the rationale for public sector intervention in
higher education; and (b) the alternatives to the Project. The objectives are to provide some economic justification
for the focus of the project on educational quality and to enhance the soundness of the financial dimension of project
design. Gender equality is not an issue in the Chinese higher education system, especially where total enrollment is
concerned.
l(a) Project Coherently set in the CAS [See Section B (1) of PAD]
3.     China's economy is one of the fastest growing in the world. The CAS (China: Country Assistance Strate
Progress Report: R98-107 dated May 6, 1998) recommends that an area which needs to be addressed is increased
training in those skills necessary to accelerate China's entry into the 21st century's information-based economy (page
5. para. 22). The Project directly responds to the CAS recommendation. China's transition from a command to a
socialist market economy is increasingly integrating the Chinese economy with the global economy. An integral part
of strengthening the economic sectors is to ensure a critical mass of well-trained personnel who are flexible, creative,
practical, and adaptable to future technologies and labor market needs, and better able to work in teams.
4.     The main economic rationale for the project is linked to improving quality of training in science and
engineering to ensure better prepared, flexible and adaptable graduates for the rapid technology-based changes in the
economy and labor market. In the long-term perspective there would be a complementarity between the need for
economists and accountants on the one hand, and the more science and technology oriented professionals on the
other, and the Chinese economy would need both. Considering the short shelf life of science and technology
programs, the need for high investments in appropriate equipment, and the accelerating pace of knowledge generation
in these areas, it is difficult to identify support for such programs from local sources or bilateral and other grant-
giving donor agencies including the UN. The Bank's ability to leverage resources as well as its international
experience and familiarity with the sub-sectoral characteristics through previous projects vests in it a comparative
advantage to assist China in building a sound foundation for science and technology oriented toward the 21 St century.
1(b) Project Coherently set in ESW [See Section B (3) of PAD]
5.     The Project is designed within the context of existing and clear directions for sub-sectoral reforms and on the
basis of the findings of an in-depth sub-sectoral analysis China: Higher Education Reform (June, 1997) which was
jointly conducted by the Bank and MOE in cooperation with higher education institutions; lessons leamed from
ongoing and completed higher education projects in China; experience from other Bank regions and bilateral
agencies; reports from IDF grant activities on curriculum reform; and initial findings from MOE-commissioned
research studies on curriculum and teaching reform. The Bank's sub-sectoral analysis reviewed and made



46
recommendations on the four following areas, jointly identified with MOE's Department of Finance: Relationships
between Universities and the State; Changes in University Management; Financing Higher Education: Diversification
of Resources; and Quality Improvement in Instructional Programs which focused on curriculum and staffing in
Chinese universities. More specifically, the sector work on higher education reform completed in 1997 showed
undergraduate science and engineering programs as among the weakest in the tertiary system. Universities data on
employer feedback show that Chinese industries too have increasingly expressed concerns about insufficient
creativity, practical skills, and ability for teamwork demonstrated by recent university graduates. The Government
has placed this level of education at the top of its priority list of higher education reforms. Designed within this
context, the Project has been flagged by MOE as the second wave of major reforms, viewing it as an opportunity to
create a strong, modernized and broadened curriculum content and skills base, helping to prepare graduates for an
increasingly knowledge and technology-based economy.
6.     Since curricula at undergraduate level have not been updated for more than a decade, the Project would
introduce reforms in science and engineering programs at the undergraduate level, rather than at the graduate level
which have already been targeted in the majority of previous Bank-supported higher education projects. Upgrading
curricula and introducing effective teaching and learning modes would raise the quality of education, providing
students with the skills and flexibility to adapt to changes in knowledge and in the job market. The introduction of
reforms in the higher education system in China follows an established and tested mode: it starts with pilots in
institutions most likely to succeed followed by dissemination of successful outcomes throughout the system.
7.     Keeping GOC's goals in the forefront, the Project would address some of the core issues raised in the
previous section with an emphasis on long-term development outcomes as a basis for strategic choices: (a) Support
training and other activities related to continued staff improvement through specific integrated activities; (b)
Strengthen capacities at MOE and institutional levels; (c) Introduce textbook and materials contracts based on
competitive selection/funding mechanism to improve institutional capacity in the direction of sound mechanisms for
supporting quality; and (d) Promote the concept of partnership linkages to provide opportunities for poorer
institutions to acquire much needed information on curricula, teaching methodologies, examination reforms, MIS,
and international university exchanges.
2. Project alternatives [See Section D (1) of PAD]
8.     Rationale for public sector involvement: Repayment of Bank Credit/Loan is a fundamental issue in the
Chinese higher education sub-sector and therefore underlies the rationale for public sector involvement in higher
education. The norm in China is that Government on-lends to public higher education institutions and these in turn
repay MOE over time. If institutions are unable to repay MOE, the parent ministry to which they are affiliated will
undertake to repay the on-lent amount to MOE. Non-government institutions do not receive government subsidy or
financial support from the Government. Moreover, they are not directly affiliated to specific parent ministries as are
public institutions of higher education. At this time, State policy does not permit on-lending to non-government
institutions.
9.     By virtue of educational tradition, quality of higher education institutions is superior in the public domain to
that in the non-government domain. Unlike public institutions of higher education, non-government institutions of
higher education are typically located in or close to special economic zones. Programs offered in these institutions
are typically short-cycle, non-degree programs specialized and directed to serve industries in the economic zone.
Financial support comes from industries, overseas expatriate support and cost recovery (fees). A majority of non-
government institutions do not have the financial backing or resources to provide comprehensive science and
engineering degree programs. The role of the non-government sector in higher education has, therefore,
predominantly been oriented toward short-cycle, adult education institutions at post-secondary levels. They include
radio and television universities, pedagogical colleges, independent correspondence colleges and correspondence or
evening courses run by regular higher education institutions.
10.    The first non-governmental institution of higher education came about in the early 1990s. As of 1998, there
were approximately 1,274 non-governmental institutions of higher education of which only 22 were accredited. Total
student enrollment as of 1998 was approximately 1.3 million. Of these about 14,000 were enrolled in the accredited



47
institutions. MOE does not provide any form of financial support to the non-governmental institutions. However, in
order to maintain their accreditation status, non-governmental institutions are required to submit periodic reports to
MOE, although actual supervisory jurisdiction of non-governmental institutions rests with the provincial
governments, not MOE. Accredited non-government institutions are required to comply with strict MOE specified
standards for comprehensiveness and quality of higher education.
11.   In 1994, these institutions enrolled 2.35 million students on a part-time basis and employed 0.21 million full-
time staff (of which 45 percent were teachers) and 0.03 million part-time teachers. About 90 percent of the enrollees
were in short-cycle programs, and only 10 percent in regular undergraduate studies. Over 800 private post-secondary
institutions were in operation (enrolling about 1-5 percent students in addition to those in the regular public
institutions). However, only 22 of these institutions were accredited by the government as of 1998. No official data
were collected systematically on private post-secondary institutions until recently. Existing data are insufficient and
do not indicate a large non-government presence in higher education. Non-governmental providers will continue to
play a limited role in higher education for some time until: (a) the quality of education provided by them is on par
with public institutions of higher education; (b) more non-government higher education institutions are accredited by
government based on common standards for both public and non-govemment providers; (c) regulation empowers
non-government providers to compete with the public sector in funding and providing quality education suitable for
the emerging labor market needs.
12.    Most countries, not only centralized communist states believe in a strong if not predominant place for the
government in higher education. In China, typical characteristics of higher education institutions under the
centralized system included: (a) institutional affiliation to a line ministry; (b) undergraduate and graduate programs
oriented toward training students in particular areas of study to fulfill central manpower planning requirement; (c)
core funding being provided by the then State Education Commission (SEdC) - title now changed to the Ministry of
Education (MOE), a sponsoring ministry, province or municipality (or a combination of them). More recently,
government's move toward rationalizing the higher education system has led to re-consolidation of higher education
institutions under fewer line ministries (for examples, see Appendix B of Project Appraisal Document for affiliations
of some universities), and focusing attention on reforms in the quality of education so as to train students for a market
oriented economy. Despite moving toward a market oriented economy, centralized control of higher education in
China will continue for some more time. Reasons such as nation building, developing centers of excellence, and
standardizing the quality of education being imparted to the majority of the student population who will continue to
be enrolled in government-supported higher education, in addition to on-lending policy are the reasons for supporting
the public sector at this time. With emerging market-oriented reforms, government policy toward lending to non-
government institutions might change in the future.
13.    For other Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection see Section D (1) of PAD.
3. Completeness and Internal Coherence of Cost-Benefit Analysis or Other Selection Criteria
14.    Policymakers in every country are confronted with two fundamental questions in considering whether to
expand a particular level of education and the desirability and nature ofpublic intervention. One important input in
this consideration is whether expansion is economically attractive, given the labor market conditions and the marginal
cost of expansion. The other is the consideration of market failure and how government policy can address it. The
two basic tools to assess the economic attractiveness of further investment in higher education: (a) the rate-of-return
analysis (or cost-benefit analysis) to estimate the economic returns to education for the individual and the society; and
(b) the analysis of labor market outcomes of graduates to evaluate whether the supply has met the demand for skill
requirements.
15.    Demand Analysis. The 1978-94 period witnessed a remarkable proliferation of public, regular higher
education institutions -- from 598 in 1978 to 1,080 in 1994. Enrollment numbers grew from 0.86 million in 1978 to
2.8 million in 1994. Full-time students in undergraduate and short-cycle courses grew at an annual rate of 7.7
percent. Full-time students in undergraduate and short-cycle courses grew at an annual rate of 7.7 percent. Graduate
enrollment rose from zero to 0.13 million by 1994. The higher education participation rate at about 7 percent of gross
enrollment includes students and other adults in degree programs, however, is very low when compared to other East



48
Asian economies. For example, the higher education participation rate is 10 percent in Indonesia, 19 percent in
Thailand, 20 percent in Hong Kong, 39 percent in Taiwan (China), and 51 percent in the Republic of Korea. This
may have serious implications for the sustainability of economic growth and long-term social development in China.
In relation to the pressures of a growing market economy, the higher education sub-sector as a whole faces some
problems which may obstruct its further reform and development.
16.    In academic year 1997-98, approximately 150,000 students were enrolled in first and second years of
undergraduate science and engineering degree programs in the 28 Project Universities. This number indicates
absolute enrollment figures since the concept of-full-time equivalents (FTEs) has yet to be introduced in the Chinese
higher education system. A majority of students in Chinese universities are full-time students. Over the five years of
the project or by the year 2005 (Project closing), Ministry of Education (MOE) expects the cumulative total
enrollments in science and engineering degree programs in the 28 Project Universities to reach approximately one
million. This number would benefit from better quality curricula, teaching, equipment and books through proposed
Project reforms. The one million students would signify 17 percent of total student enrollments for undergraduate
programs.
17.    At present approximately 8,600 undergraduate science and engineering teaching faculty and management
staff (institutional managers and administrators) of the 59 Project institutions (28 Project Universities and 31 Partner
Institutions) are being targeted to benefit from proposed project reforms. By project closing in 2005, approximately
43,000 teaching faculty and management staff would benefit directly from the proposed reforms. They would signify
almost 9 percent of total teaching and management staff.
18.    Rate ofReturn Analysis (cost-benefit analysis): Private returns to tertiary education are higher than those to
primary and secondary education in countries of all income levels, because of the relative scarcity of high-level skills
and often substantial public subsidies that reduce private costs. Findings of empirical studies provide the economic
justification for public subsidization of basic education and for charging tuition fees at the higher levels of education,
because graduates who will enjoy higher life-time earnings are the beneficiaries of their own education. Cost
recovery in the form of tuition fee has become an important feature of the higher education system in China. Rate-of-
return analysis does not measure non-pecuniary private benefits and the positive externalities (spill-over effects) of
education. In the case of higher education, the external benefits of the development of high-level technical and
managerial capacity that underpin economic growth, advancement of civil society, the public good nature of basic
research, and the contribution of higher education to the nation-building process have never been estimated (Birdsall,
1995). Furthermore, it does not take into account the positive social effects of extending opportunity from the elite to
the masses and of reducing the wage inequality that the expansion of higher education can bring. Thus, these benefits
of higher education call for the government to play a key role in promoting higher education to ensure equal
opportunity for access and quality, in subsidizing to the degree that it generates public goods, and to provide student
financial assistance to correct for capital market failure.
19.    Non-quantifiable or qualitative Project benefits (direct and indirect) are numerous and are envisaged to have
multiplier effects on the entire Chinese higher education system over the medium (5 years) to long-term. There are
no good measures to reflect overall improvements in the quality of higher education. For example, it is difficult to
isolate or separate benefits due to quality and those due to ability. Appropriate proxies have been utilized in
assessing Project benefits. Below are some of the non-quantifiable Project benefits:
*  While project investments would be made primarily at first and second year levels, they would provide the
impetus for embedding reforms across all four years of undergraduate science and engineering programs.
*  Assisting the Chinese government in implementing much needed changes at the first and second year
undergraduate basic science and engineering levels would help the country to keep abreast of the
accelerating speed of global knowledge generation and technological improvements. Speeding up national
efforts to transform from a planned economy to a market economy, if successful, would provide important
and closely-monitored models of change for China's vast higher education sub-sector.



49
*  Reforms in curriculum and teaching methodology, strengthening planning and management at institutional
and central, Ministry of Education (MOE) levels, would improve capacity and efficiency to implement
reforms in teaching and learning. Support to university strategic planning and administration through the
strengthening of management information systems (MIS) would promote efficiency in planning,
management and resource allocation.
*  Introduction of competitive selection processes, a new concept in the area of centrally-organized curriculum
development in China would lead to improvements in the quality of proposals/bids for funding.
* Universities' data on employer feedback show that Chinese industries have increasingly expressed concerns
about insufficient creativity, practical skills, and ability for teamwork demonstrated by recent university
graduates. Project reforms would introduce changes in the learning environment to move the system toward
more student-centered learning, thereby helping to develop a pool of graduates with broad-based knowledge
and skills, enabling them with the flexibility to adapt to the challenges of a market economy. This would
result in increased responsiveness to labor market needs.
*  Project universities have themselves identified at least one weak-performing partner institution each
(although one project university has four), disadvantaged by scarce financial and human resources or by
location in a poor area, to work on cooperative programs to be undertaken under the Project. Partner
institutions would be able to take advantage of spread effects of Project benefits.
-  Improved communication and dissemination mechanisms for joint working and research between Project
universities and their partner institutions as well as other universities nationwide through the national policy
of "hand-by-hand" development, emphasizing the multiplier effects of Project reforms.
• Benefits from information exchanges established through international linkages due to the presence of
international members in the Higher Education Advisory Panel (HEAP).
*  Management and administrative efficiency of Project universities and partner institutions will be promoted
through the introduction of more robust management information system (MIS) as well as through the
proposed streamlined financial management system. These will be closely monitored through overall Project
supervision.
20.    Project cost-benefit analysis has produced an approximate internal rate of return (IRR) of 20 percent for the
project investment at a net present value of US$108.5 million using a discount rate of 10%. Given the existing data
structure, appropriate proxies have been identified to quantify as many project benefits as possible. Taking into
consideration that the focus of the Project is predominantly on bringing about quality improvements, entire Project
benefits are difficult to quantify due to the fact that: (a) there are no good measures of quality; and (b) the labor
market in China is not yet competitive in the context of a mature market system. As a starting point, the potential
economic benefits of investment in quality using graduates' eamings differentials are provided in Part II (Cost-
Benefit Analysis Summary) below.
21.    Potential Economic Benefit of Investment in Quality. Analysis supports investments for upgrading the
quality of undergraduate science and engineering programs. Analysis based on a survey conducted by researchers of
the Institute of Higher Education, Peking University, in June-August 1998 revealed that the difference in earnings of
graduates from Chinese universities of varying quality. The objective of the survey was to demonstrate the potential
economic benefits of investment in the quality of higher education in China. Information on earnings was collected
from graduates of bachelor-degree programs from two categories of universities: 246 graduates from four key
national universities, and 240 graduates from four regional and local universities (non-key universities). The survey
response rate was 61 percent. Since there is no good measure to reflect the overall quality of project intervention, the
central versus the provincial levels were used as a rough proxy for quality. The key findings are as follows:



50
(i) In 1996, the average annual earned income of graduates was 16,508 yuan for key universities and
10,921 for non-key universities;
(ii) For graduates who completed their programs in 1989-93, the ratio of average annual earned income
between the two categories of universities was about 1.4 in favor of key universities; and
(iii) Since 1994, the earned income gap between the two categories of universities was substantially
higher than that for earlier years (see Table A below).
Table A. Earnings gap between graduates of key universities and graduates of non-key universities
Graduating year        Ratio of annual earned income: key
universities compared to non-key
universities
1989                                1.43
1990                                1.54
1991                                1.29
1992                                1.31
1993                                1.34
1994                                1.91
1995                                2.21
1996                                2.06
22.    Additional analysis shows that, compared to graduates of non-key universities, graduates of key universities
were more represented in higher-paying industries, in higher-paying enterprises, and in economically-more developed
areas of the country. As market-oriented reform deepens, the earnings gap between graduates of the two types of
universities is likely to widen.
23.    The earnings gap is partly due to differences in the quality of higher education programs, the ability of
graduates, labor-market conditions across areas, and other factors. This survey did not provide information on
graduate ability. The cost of living in economically more advanced areas is significantly higher than that for
economically less-advanced areas; and cost of living affects the compensation of employees. In 1996, for example,
the difference in cost of living across the two areas (1,291 yuan) amounted to 23 percent of the earnings gap between
graduates of the two types of universities (5,587 yuan). Thus, the majority of the earnings gap between graduates
were due to quality differences and other factors.
24.    The results of the Peking University survey show that investments in quality of higher education programs
have a direct correlation to increased earnings for graduates. The results, therefore, support the decision for Project
investment for improvements in teaching and learning methodology and overall quality enhancement of
undergraduate science and engineering programs.
4. Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery (Financial Feasibility and Financial Sustainability Analysis)
25.    Data on revenue and expenditure of participating universities were collected for a three-year period (1995-
97) in order to assess the fiscal health of these institutions and thus their ability to repay their share of the World Bank
loan (see Table 2 of project institutions' proposals of Project Documents on file). Table B shows the difference
between total revenue and total expenditure (recurrent and capital), and the difference as a percentage of total
revenue.



51
Table B. Total revenue and expenditure of Project Universities ('000 Yuan RMB)
Institutions               Year       Total     %        Institutions               Year     Total     %
Rev-      GAP                                          Rev -     GAP
Exp                                                    Exp
1995      36,096     10.2                               1995      26,689    12.9
Beijing University         1996       159,546    30.2    Nanjing University         1996     9,901     4.8
1997      174,455    28.1                               1997      11,960    4.0
1995      3,548      1.7                                1995      26,569    16.7
Beijing Aeronautics        1996       5,814     2.4       Nankai University         1996     4,750     2.7
University
1997      -182      -0.1                                1997      29,600    11.0
1995      6,123      6.8                                 1995     4,145     5.6
Beijing Science &          1996       4,946     4.5       Qingdao Ocean University    1996    148,682   15.3
Technology
1997      6,420      4.5                                1997      5,400     4.6
1995      5,716      3.8                                1995      54,002    12.1
Beijing Institute of       1996       4,056     2.3       Tsinghua University       1996     96,352    17.7
Technology
1997      9,755      4.4                                1997      154,600   22.8
1995      4,685      3.6                                1995      2,700     4.6
Beijing Normal University  1996       6,536     4.4       Shaanxi Normnal           1996     6,955     9.6
1997      12,110     6.8                                1997      5,284     6.0
1995      4,530      6.5                                1995      53,910    19.5
Beijing Medical University    1996    2,640     3.6       Shanghai Jiaotong         1996     21,997    6.0
University
1997      2,990      3.1                                1997      60,155    11.7
1995      7,511      3.9                                1995      12,259    7.6
Dalian University of       1996       1,000     0.6       Sichuan Union University    1996   7,242     4.1
Technology
1997      24,738     10.3                               1997      21,616    10.8
1995      6,374      3.6                                1995      31,009    12.2
Southeast University       1996       3,751      1.7      Tianjin University        1996     25,019    8.4
1997      3,180      1.3                                1997      82,820    20.7
1995      33,447     12.0                               1995      11,405    9.1
Fudan University           1996       37,025     13.0     Wuhan University          1996     6,401     4.2
1997      112,821    24.9                               1997      -289     -0.1
1995      11,250     5.2                                1995      8,482     5.3
Harbin Institute of        1996       545       0.2       Xian Jiaotong University  1996      11,181    5.8
Technology
1997      14,820     5.0                                1997      10,256    4.2
1995      11,573     5.4                                1995      26,809    11.8
Huazhong Institute of      1996       2,885      1.0      Zhejiang University       1996     40,654    14.3
Technology
1997      22,300     6.1                                1997      156,790   18.6
1995      764        0.6                                1995      -2,317    -1.8
Jilin Institute of Technology    1996  39,506   20.8      China University of Sci. &  1996    10,899    7.3
Tech.
1997      -3,720     -2.0                               1997      26,450    14.0
1995      5,643      5.7                                1995      2,220     2.9
Jilin University of        1996       16,394     15.1     Mining & Technology       1996      11,940    10.7
Technology                                                University
1997      14,668     12.9                               1997      42,110    29.5
1995      10,232     12.0                               1995      3,539     3.2
Lanzhou University         1996       1,127      1.1      Chongqing University      1996     -1,092    -0.9
1997      -5,540     -4.8                               1997      41,270    24.6
Source: Computed from Ministry of Education data, China
* %GAP refers to- the difference between total revenue and total expenditure as a percentage of recurrent revenue
26.    As the table shows, in general, revenue exceeded expenditure during the period. However, there were
substantial differences in the financial health of the participating universities. For example, relatively large annual
surpluses were found in most of the leading national comprehensive universities such as Beijing University, Fudan



52
University, and Tsinghua University; the budget surpluses were relatively small for other institutions. Also,
diminishing budget surpluses were found in a number of institutions such as Beijing Aeronautics and Astronautics
University, Southeast University, Wuhan University, and Lanzhou University. Lanzhou University, in particular, had
a deficit in 1997 which amounted to 4.8 percent of total revenue (see Table C).
Table C. Variation in financial health among universities: Some examples
University/Institution              Year          Difference between revenue and
expenditure as a percentage of
revenue, 1995-97
Beijing University                         1995                         10.2
1996                         30.2
1997                         28.1
Tsinghua University                        1995                         12.1
1996                         17.7
1997                         22.8
Southeast University                       1995                         3.6
1996                         1.7
1997                         1.3
Lanzhou University                         1995                         12.0
1996                         1.1
1997                         - 4.8
27.    Discussions with university representatives indicated that the revenue stream during the project years would
continue to increase because of additional revenue from rising tuition payments by students over time. The current
national policy guidelines on university tuition are: (a) tuition revenue should not exceed 25 percent of the per-
student cost of a university; and (b) a university can set its tuition level, subject to the evaluation and approval of the
government which has jurisdiction over the university. The participating universities are planning to increase their
tuition rates over time while subject to the national guidelines (for details see Section 3 of project universities'
proposals in project files).
28.    Most of the participating universities would be able to repay their project loan. However, a small number of
participating universities (e.g., Lanzhou University and Beijing Normal University) indicate that they may need
central government assistance in loan repayment. Agreement has been reached by the Bank and the Ministry of
Education (MOE) that participating universities should repay their loan and that universities with financial difficulty
will receive financial assistance from the concerned line ministries.
29.    Macrofiscal analysis: Analysis of data from the Chinese government indicates that the fiscal health of the
government has improved significantly in recent years (see Table D). Government deficit as a percentage of
government revenue decreased from 11.01 percent in 1994 to 6.73 percent in 1997. In addition, after 1994, total
government revenue grew at a faster rate than government expenditure.



53
Table D. Total Government Revenue and Expenditure, 1994-97
Year      Revenue       Expenditure     Deficit as % of   Rate of increase  Rate of increase in
(billion yuan)    (billion yuan)   Revenue       in Revenue       Expenditure (%)
1994   (      521.81     579.26 y          11.01        i   20.0               24.8
1995     624.42          682.37            9.31              19.6              17.8
1996      740.80         793.76            7.15              18.7              16.3
1997      865.11         923.36            6.73              16.8              16.3
Source: China Statistical Yearbook 1998 (Table 8-1, page 269)
30.   In 1997, total government expenditure was 923.36 yuan and total government education expenditure was
estimated at 186.3 billion yuan. Although a small number of participating universities may require government
assistance in repaying the loan, the total amount of such assistance is likely to be less than 50 million yuan,
constituting a very small proportion of total government expenditure for education or total government expenditure.
Thus, the GOC would be able to provide some assistance to the needy universities.
31.    During project preparation, project proposals of participating universities were revised twice to ensure that
more precise information on the amount of counterpart funding by sources was available. The results are shown in
Table E.



54
Table E. Sources of Counterpart Funding ('000 Yuan)
Institutions                                      Total                               Sources
Government          University           Social
Contribution
Beijing University                                12,450               0                12,450               0
Beijing Aeronautics                               10,000             5,000               5,000               0
Beijing Science & Technology Univesity            9,000                0                 9,000               0
Beijing Institute of Technology                   10,000             5,000               5,000               0
Beijing Normal Univesity                          9,600                0                 9,600               0
Beijing Medical University                        8,000                0                 8,000               0
Dalian University of Technology                  12,000                0                12,000               0
Southeast University                              9,980               0                 9,980                0
Fudan University                                  9,960                0                 7,968             1,992
Harbin Institute of Technology                    10,000               0                10,000               0
Huazhong Institute of Technology                  10,000               0                10,000               0
Jilin Institute of Technology                   *** 10,000           1,000              9,000                0
Jilin University of Technology                   10,000                0                8,000              2,000
Lanzhou University                                9,753              1,950              6,846               957
Nanjing University                                9,960                0                 9,960               0
Nankai University                               *** 10,000           7,500               2,500               0
Qingdao Ocean University                          8,715              5,715               3,000               0
Tsinghua University                              16,600                0                16,600               0
Shaanxi Normal University                         8,300                0                8,300                0
Shanghai Jiaotong University                      14,442              442               14,000               0
Sichuan Union University                         19,920               0                 19,920               0
Tianjin University                                9,600              5,000              4,600                0
Wuhan University                                  9,130               0                 9,130                0
Xian Jiaotong University                         10,000              2,000              7,000              1,000
Zhejiang University                               13,640               0                13,640               0
China University of Science & Technology         10,000              4,000              6,000                0
Mining & Technology University                    8,800                0                 8,800               0
Chongqing University                              9,800              1,500              6,500              1,800
Notes
* Sum of contribution from government and community = 442,00OYuan
** Some social contribution is expected
is* Sum of contribution from government and community = 100,00OYuan



55
32.    Results show that counterpart funding comes from three major sources: the government, the university, and
social contribution. As a result of being included in the project, a number of universities have been able to obtain
additional resources from the government and from the community to support their participation. As shown in Chart
I below, the great majority of counterpart funding (83 percent on average) comes from universities' own budget.
Chart 1. Counterpart Funding
by Source
S. Contri. Govt.
3%    144%
Univ.
83%
33.    Participating universities were asked to estimate the additional recurrent spending needed to sustain project
effectiveness after the completion of the project and to project their revenue growth over time (for details see Project
Institutional Proposals in Project Documents on file). Data show that, after project completion, the projected revenue
will be at least as large as the total recurrent expenditure (which includes the additional recurrent spending for
sustained effectiveness). To increase the likelihood of sustained effectiveness, the Bank has requested that estimates
of additional recurrent spending be included in the five-year plan of each participating university subsequent to
project completion.
5. Sensitivity Analysis
See Part II (Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary) of Annex 4 for details.
6. Institutional Capacity and Risk Analysis
See Section F (2) of PAD for critical project risks.
34.    The stage has already been set by providing appropriate information to the Project Universities and the
Borrower, with regard to some of the crucial details about project implementation. However, concern remains about
two issues:
* Lateral interactions within and between universities: Previous Bank-supported education projects have
shown a high degree of compartmentalization among and within the various implementing agencies. The
current Project has been designed with special attention to dissemination mechanisms and communication
channels with regard to research, development of textbooks, national level seminars to address this
traditional weakness in lateral interactions.
* Coordination between MOE and Project Universities: The Bank Task Team is working with the MOE
Task Team to ensure that implementation arrangements take proper cognizance of the weakness in
coordination between MOE and Project Universities. The large number of Project Universities located in
various provinces, some of which have barely adequate communication facilities, would exacerbate the
situation. The Bank Task Team has brought this aspect to MOE's attention and has stressed the need for
better communication in order to strengthen project coordination.



56
7. Poverty and Gender Analysis
For project impact on poverty alleviation, See Section A (1) on project objectives; Section C (I) Component II on
Partnerships between project universities and partner institutions; Section C (3) on target population and benefits.
35.    The Project would promote the concept of partnership linkages to provide opportunities for poorer
institutions (in geographically dispersed areas, and with limited resources) to acquire much needed information on
curricula, teaching methodologies, examination reforms, MIS, and international university exchanges. Poorer, low-
performing universities generally function in isolation. By teaming up with stronger institutions who have more
know-how and international savvy, their chances of becoming part of the changing profile of China's academic
community are improved, which will reduce differences in quality. Through interactive communications, training
programs and other dissemination activities, the partnership program increases substantially the multiplier effect of
project interventions.
36.    Gender equality is not an issue in the Chinese higher education system, especially where total enrollment is
concerned. There are no issues pertaining to females to males enrollments. Traditionally, however, engineering has
not been an areas of great demand for females. This is not the case for certain science programs/disciplines (such as
biology, chemistry) where, in fact, there is greater female enrollments than males.
8. Environmental Analysis and Linkage to Economic Analysis
37.    The Project has a focus on the reform of science and engineering prograrns in Higher Education Institutions.
No adverse environmental consequences are therefore anticipated.
9. Economic Performance Criteria
38.    See Annex I of PAD for key performance indicators.
10. Overall Assessment
39.    The Project has been designed by factoring institutional implementation capacity constraints, overall macro
environment of China, changing labor market scenarios, the capacity of Project universities to put in place reforms,
and their ability to sustain the reforms beyond the life of the project. Overall, it is expected that benefits will
outweigh the costs in the medium-long term through reforms being embedded throughout the higher education
system.
Part II: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
1.     This section provides justification for the Higher Education Reform-oriented investments that will be
supported through the Project. An analysis of the internal rate of return to the Project is estimated. The information
was considered, along with other arguments, by Government and the World Bank during Project negotiations to
decide whether to proceed with the operation or not.
2.     A steady state assumption would be inappropriate for China's Higher Education System: (a) The Cultural
Revolution has had far reaching influence on the Chinese economy, and specifically in the sphere of higher education
enrollments, curricula, and teaching staff; and (b) Although China has been relatively untouched by the recent past
economic crisis in East Asia, in the future, trade relationships between China and her trading partners are likely to be
influenced by demands for a devalued Chinese currency to make Chinese imports more affordable. These aspects
will be factored in the sensitivity analysis which will be carried out following the cost-benefit analysis.
Methodology
3.     Quantifiable Project benefits relate specifically to: (a) cost savings at the institutional level due to
embedding reforms which will assist students in all four years of undergraduate science and engineering programs



57
long after the direct beneficiaries/students have graduated in the year 2005 (Project closing); and (b) enhanced
earnings of graduates upon completing undergraduate science and engineering programs within a qualitatively
enhanced learning environment and more appropriate training relevant to a fast emerging market economy. Project
specific reform-oriented changes calibrated to a fast globalizing economy include reforms in university management,
and improvements to teaching and the learning environment. Table I provides the breakdown of costs in relation to
the beneficiaries. An improved learning environment in science and engineering programs, stability and growth in the
Chinese economy, and progressive reforms toward a market-oriented economy would be the prerequisites for the
quantified benefit -- enhanced graduate earnings. Such benefits would be noticeable to a smaller degree for graduates
seeking employment starting in the year 2000, and to a much larger degree in the next five years, by the year 2005 at
Project closing. Hence, the timeframe for accrual of Project benefits will be spread over the medium-term, until the
reforms are fully embedded in the higher education system.
Table 1. Allocation of Project Costs (US$ million)
Project Component                                   Total cost Institutional Incremental Systemic.
Cost savings  Earnings   Benefits
1                                                       2          3           4          5
Component A. Achieving Improvement in Effective        83.5       36.0        40.1        7.3
Teaching & Learning
a. Staff training                                      4.8         2.4        2.4
b. Teaching reforms                                    3.1         1.2         1.2        0.6
c. Lab equipment                                       58.2       23.3        29.1        5.8
d. Books & library materials                           4.4         1.3         2.2        0.9
e. Maintenance/parts/consumables                        13         7.8         5.2
Component B. Using Partnership & Networks to Spread    5.2        2.1          1.0        2.1
Reform
a. Partnership Program                                 5.2        2.1          1.0        2.1
Component C. Supporting Institutional Capacity for     4.2        1.7         1.5         1.1
Change
a. Staff training                                      0.1         0.1
b. Study tours                                          1.3        0.7         0.7
c. Curriculum & textbook development                   2.2        0.7         0.7         0.9
d. Dissemination workshops                             0.3        0.1          0.1        0.1
e. Research & studies                                  0.2        0.1          0.1        0.1
f. Operating cost for Higher Education Advisory Panel  0.1        0.0         0.0         0.0
(HEAP)
Total Base Project Costs                               92.9       39.8        42.7       10.5
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.
Cost/Benefit Analysis - Assumptions and Calculations
Calculation of Benefit Stream #1: Cost Savings
4.     Project costs can be apportioned broadly to three categories: (a) benefits directly attributable to the
institution; (b) benefits accruing to improved productivity of graduates through incremental/increased eamings due to
receiving quality education; and (c) spillover benefits to the higher education system as a whole.
5.    tost stream directly attributable to Project institutions (US$39.8 million) comprise: (a) Costs of achieving
improvement in effective teaching and learning directly applicable to the institution (US$36.0 million); (b) Costs to
institutions due to using partnership & networks activities for sharing reform experiences (US$2.1 million) and (d)



58
Costs for supporting institutional capacity for change (US$1.7 million). The breakdown of costs is provided in Table
1, column 3 above.
6.     Estimated cost savings benefit stream is calculated by taking the difference in estimated unit costs with and
without the Project, multiplying the values by projected student enrollments in Project universities and partner
institutions over the Project period (academic years 2000 - 2005) and projected for 25 years - to the year 2030.
* The concept of FTE has not yet been introduced in the Chinese higher education system. The
introduction of the concept is envisaged by the end of Project implementation. In the absence of FTE
calculations, Higher education student enrollments are estimated to increase at an average annual rate of
7 percent. Based on the enrollment rates, it is estimated that approximately one million graduates will
directly benefit from reforms proposed to be introduced through the Project. Of the one million, it is
assumed that about 80 percent will enter the labor market, while the remaining 20 percent will transition
to post-graduate studies.
Benefit Stream #2: Incremental Earnings Analysis
7.     Cost stream directly attributable to enhancing graduates' productivity (US$42.7 million) comprise: (a) Costs
of achieving improvement in effective teaching and learning directly applicable to the institution (US$40.1 million);
(b) Costs to institutions due to using partnership & networks activities for sharing reform experiences (US$ 1.0
million) and (d) Costs for supporting institutional capacity for change (US$1.5 million). The breakdown of costs is
provided in Table 1, column 4 above. Spending per student or average annual unit costs for Project universities was
$2,525 as of 1997. Since this represents up to date unit cost information provided by Project universities as part of
their strategic planning, this data has been utilized to calculate the cost stream for training future graduates.
8.     Assumptions for calculating the incremental earnings benefits stream include the following:
*  Extrapolating the current graduation rate, of the estimated numbers enrolled students, approximately 20
percent of enrolled students who graduate will go on for post-graduate science & engineering programs, and
the remaining 80 percent would seek employment. Underlying the 80 percent assumption is the reasoning
that with China becoming increasingly a market-oriented economy, more graduates can be expected to
transition into the labor market in the coming years. Moreover, with appropriate training oriented to a
market economy, more graduates are likely to find suitable employment in the short to medium-term (during
the life of the Project).
*  Dropout rates in the Chinese Higher Education System are very low and therefore do not have a significant
impact on graduation rates.
*  Potential investments in quality will have high private and social returns to higher education. Estimates for
1990 indicate private rate of return to be 12.65 and the social rate of return to be 7.78 (Source: China Higher
Education Reform. Red Cover Country Study. WorldBank. 1997. Pp.105). Extrapolating the 1996 average
annual income of science and engineering graduates (Source: Peking University Graduate Tracer Study,
1998), and assuming that graduates seek employment in transportation, communication, trade, science,
technology and the service industries, a conservative assumption of $1,990 has been assumed as average
annual income per graduate from 1999 onwards. Since the Peking University survey did not provide
information on the ability of graduates, on labor market conditions across areas, and other factors,
extrapolating the results of the survey, it would be inappropriate to attribute the entire earnings differential as
the consequence of quality enhancement reforms supported by the Project. Therefore, a conservative level of
25 percent of observed earnings differential has been assumed. After controlling for occupational
differences, employment sectors and regions, incremental earnings differential are estimated to remain at an
annual rate of 25 percent in real terms in favor of graduates who will benefit from the Project. This is
primarily due to increase in productivity of the graduates who will benefit from a quality enhanced leaming
environment calibrated toward more market relevant skills. At present the Chinese labor market is growing



59
to be increasingly competitive, and at this stage is in transition. Incremental earnings, however, are likely to
increase at a decreasing rate in the future, as a result of the slowing down of the economy due to the effects
of the East Asian crisis. For this reason, no increases in incremental earnings over time are assumed for
purposes of calculating the earnings' benefits stream. Sensitivity analysis reveals that project rate of return is
sensitive to this assumption.
Earnings increases are estimated to continue for the first 12 years of a graduate's working life reflecting
prolonged changes at a slowing rate in the Chinese economy to a market-oriented system. Thereafter the
increments between the two groups of graduates (with and without the Project) will remain constant.
9.     Quality enhancement inputs (component 1) and the partnership component (#2) are closely linked to the
national institutional development component (#3). The three components jointly contribute to increasing the
productivity of graduates. Activities in component 3 pertain to institutional capacity building for putting in place and
disseminating reforms. The multiplier effect of reforms particularly between Project universities and partner
institutions is a crucial
element of the Project.
Summary Results of the Cost-Benefit Analysis
10.    The Project internal rate of return (IRR) and related net present value of the net benefit stream are provided
below. Net present value has been calculated based on a discount rate of 10 percent.
Net Present Value
Benefit stream                    US$801.6
Cost streamn                      US$693.1
Net benefit stream                US$108.5
IRR                                  20%
I It is assumed that the economic andfinancial rates of return to be the same.



60
Summary Results of the Sensitivity Analysis
11.    Project risks and measures to minimize them are provided in Part 1 (6) of Annex 4. Sensitivity analysis was
carried out to test the impact of: (a) changes in the quality of higher education as measured by a decrease in the
incremental earnings of graduates; (b) shortfall in enrollment targets and graduation rates; (c) delays in Project
implementation; (d) changes in unit costs due to improvements in university administration. Results of the sensitivity
analysis reveal that the Project is highly sensitive to changes in quality of higher education as measured by the related
affect on incremental earnings of graduates. Results of some of the sensitivity analysis iterations are provided below.
Scenario                                                                             IRR
A. Delay in Project in costs and benefits by 2 years i.e., Project commences 2 years
later in 2001 and not in 1999                                                    18%
B. Enrollment target of 7 percent is not met and the increase is by only 4 percent   17%
C. Enrollment target of 7 percent is met, but there is a decrease in number of
graduates from 80% to 60% due to a less improved learning environment            16%
D. Higher earnings' differential in favor of graduates who benefit from the Project -
50 percent instead of 25 percent                                                 34%
E. Lower earnings' differential in favor of graduates who benefit the Project - 12.5
percent instead of 25 percent                                                    19%
F. Higher unit costs differential due to improvements in university
administration,US$2,652 instead of US$2,525                                      18%
G. Increase in unit costs differential as a result of including the third cost stream i.e.,
costs of achieving systemic benefits                                                 18%



61
Annex 5
Financial Summary
Bank Fiscal Year Ending June 30
(US$ million, 1999)
Implementation Period                   Total
Project Costs
1999     2000    -2001     2002      2003     2004
Investment Costs      3.0      30.0      30.0    20.0       7.0       1.2     91.2
Recurrent Costs        0.0      3.0       3.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      13.1
Total              3.0      33.0     33.0    22.0        9.0       3.2    104.3
Financing Sources (% of
total  project  costs)   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
IBRD/IDA             45%       60%       70%      80%      90%      100%
Govemment            55%       40%       30%      20%       10%       0%
Total             100%     100%     100%      100%     100%      100%     100%



62
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.   The loan and credit will be used to finance procurement of goods and services. A small amount
of works, mainly remodeling and rehabilitation, will be financed by counterpart funds under the
project. Procurement under the project will follow the two current Bank Group guidelines for
procurement of goods, civil works, and services: (i) Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997
(Procurement Guidelines); and (ii) Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, and revised in September 1997 (Consultant Guidelines). The
China Model Bidding Documents for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used. All consultant assignments will follow the
Standard Request for Proposals - Selection of Consultants, dated July 1997 and revised in April, 1998
and January, 1999.
Summary of Procurement Arrangements (Table A)
2.   Goods (US$86.4 million including contingencies). Goods including laboratory equipment for
science and engineering education, audio-visual aids, library books and materials, personal computers
and software will be procured for the project. Large quantities of similar type of equipment and
personal computers justify the size and scale for the use of ICB although the value of individual
contracts for most of the equipment may not exceed US$50,000. MOE and project institutions
indicated their preference for ICB. The selection of items for procurement through ICB may be based
on technical specifications as well as the estimated aggregate size of the package. The initial
procurement plan proposes that about 75% of the equipment will be procured through ICB and the rest
through international shopping.
3.   Qualified domestic manufacturers will be eligible for a margin of preference in bid evaluation
of 15 percent or the prevailing rate of custom duty, whichever is less, under ICB procedures. Contract
packages not expected to exceedUS$54.3 million in the aggregate will be procured through ICB
acceptable to the Bank. Contracts with an estimated value of less than US$50,000 each, not to exceed
US$7.5 million in the aggregate, will be awarded through international shopping procedures after
solicitation and evaluation of at least three written price quotations from two different countries.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured using NCB. The procurement plan proposes
that books, library materials, and CDs be procured through NCB. Nornally ICB is the preferred
method but in this particular case NCB procedures are considered based on the following
justifications:
(i)    85% of the titles are locally published and in Chinese;
(ii)   the lack of these books seriously affects the learning process and achievements of
students;
(iii)   by providing the books at the earliest time in the project, the impact of the
unavailability of books could be minimized; and
(iv)   there is evidence of adequate competition among book suppliers so that economical
procurement is possible.
4.   Staff Training (US$6.3 million including contingencies). Staff development including in-
country training for teachers, administrators, lab instructors and overseas study tours will be financed
by the loan credit proceeds. This category includes training expenses such as courses, workshops, and



63
travel and subsistence allowances. Overseas study tours would be managed based on Terms of
Reference to be reviewed by the Higher Education Advisory Panel for the project and approved by the
Bank. Local training will be carried out in selected institutions on the basis of training programs
described in the PIP and approved by the Bank.
5.   Consultant Services (US$6.0 million including contingencies). Technical assistance, mostly
in the form of local consultant services, provided by individuals and institutions, will be selected and
contracted in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines. Most TA will be for contracts of less than
US$100,000, using Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications, or the procedures for employing
individuals.
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review (Table B)
6.   Prior review by the Bank of all stages of the bidding process will be required for: (a) all goods
contracts procured using ICB and NCB.
7.   Consultant contracts with firms of US$100,000 equivalent or more and contracts with
individuals of US$50,000 equivalent or more will require the Bank's prior review and approval. The
Bank requested that the Terms of Reference (TORs) for local training programs and overseas study
tours be reviewed and acceptable to the Bank.
Post Review
8.   It is expected that post review of documents related to 25 percent of contracts and direct
purchases will be conducted according to Bank guidelines. This arrangement will be assessed during
the Mid-term Evaluation, and if indicated the percentage may be reviewed.
Disbursement
9.   The proposed loan of US$20.0 million and credit of SDR $36.8 million would be disbursed
over a period of six years, up to the closing date of July 31, 2005. The allocation of loan and credit
proceeds according to expenditure category is outlined in Table C.
10.  Disbursements will be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) for: (i) goods under
contracts costing less than US$200,000; (ii) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued
at less than US$100,000 each, and contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than
US$50,000 each; and (iv) training. Documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained by FILO
in MOE and the FILO in the project institutions and made available for review by Bank supervision
missions. All other disbursements from the loan and credit would be against full documentation.
There will be no retroactive financing.
11.  Special Accounts. To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be established in US
dollars, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. The Special Account will be managed by FILO, MOE. FILO will prepare and submit to the
Bank disbursement applications. For goods, FLO will prepare application documentation and
supporting documents; for training and certain local expenditures, participating universities will
prepare the disbursement documentation and submit to FLO for approval. In other on-going education
projects, the delays in processing of reimbursement claims and flow of funds has been one of the
major problems because of rather complicated internal disbursement procedures which involve both
project management office and financial bureau at respective levels. The disbursement arrangement
proposed for the Project will be able to resolve such problem. The Special Account would be used for
all eligible foreign and local expenditures. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account
would be submitted monthly or whenever the Account has been drawn down by about 50 percent of



64
the initial deposit, whichever occurs first. The aggregate initial deposit for the Special Accounts is
US$ 7 million, the estimated average expenditure for a four month period.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                        Procurement Method                   Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB        Other a/     N.B.F.
Lab Equipment                             60.4                      21.2                        81.6
(54.3)                    (7.5)                       (61.8)
Staff Training                                                       6.3                         6.3
(2.7)                       (2.7)
Books & Materials                                      5.0                                       5.0
(2.3)                                     (2.3)
Consultant Services                                                  6.0                         6.0
(2.9)                       (2.9)
Partnership Program                                                             5.4              5.4
Loan Charges                                                                                    (0.2)
Total                    60.4          4.7         33.5        5.4             104.3
(55.6)       (2.3)       (I 1.8)                     (70.0)
Notes:
ICB  =    International Competitive Bidding
NCB  =    National Competitive Bidding
a/            This category includes consultant services, research and evaluation procured
following Consultant Guidelines; training; international shopping; and operational
costs.
N.B.F. =      Not Bank financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan and credit.



65
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value             Procurement            Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold)                 Method                  Prior Review
Goods                      $200,000 or more            ICB             All ICB contracts
$50,000 or more            NCB             All NCB contracts
$50,000 or less    International Shopping
Staff Training                   N.A.                  Other           Annual plans for local
training and TORs for
overseas study will be
submitted to the Bank for
review and approval.
Consultant Services     $50,000 for individual  Z    Individual Consultant  All individual consultants
$100,000 for firms  E    Selection Based on    contracts costing $50,000 or
QCBC and CQ         more and consulting firms
contracts costing $100,000 or
more.



66
Table C: Allocation of Loan/Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount of the      Amount of the               Financing
Credit          Loan Allocated             Percentage
Allocated        (US$ million)
(US$ million
equivalent)
(1)   For Part A of the Project:
(a) Goods                            44.4             19.8           100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 75% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally.
(b) Training:                          1.3                           100%
(2)   For Part C of the Project:
(a) Training and Study tours          1.3                            100%
(b) Consultant Services               2.9                            100%
(c) Higher Education Advisory         0.1                            100%
Panel
(d) Front End Fee                                      0.2
Total                       50.0            20.0



67
Annex 7
China: Higher Education Reform Project
Evaluation of Project Financial Management System
I.   In accordance with the Bank OP/BP 10.02 guideline and the Guide for Review and Design of
Accounting and Reporting system for World Bank Financed Projects (December 1997, Central
Operational Services Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region), the task team has assessed the Financial
Management System of Higher Education Reform Project (the "Project" ), including review of
internal control, project accounting, planning, budgeting, financial reporting system and staffing. The
task team also reviewed the auditing arrangements and those for the Special Account and its
disbursements. As a result of the assessment, it is confirmed that the Project has satisfied the Bank's
minimum financial management requirements as stipulated by OP/BP 10.02. Following are the
findings and agreements reached with Ministry of Education (MOE).
Findings
Project Financial Management Structure
2.   The Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) of Ministry of Education is in charge of the
overall financial management and disbursement of the Project. The Project covers 28 universities
which all have respective financial units staffed with competent personnel. Two layers of
management will be involved in the Project financial management. The financial unit of each
university will be responsible for the Project financial management in the university and maintain
Project books and accounting records while FILO will keep the accounting records relating to the
disbursement of Bank Loan.
Internal and other controls
3.   FILO to date has managed 6 Bank financed projects and has accumulated extensive
experiences as to Bank's various financial management requirements. Detailed policies and
procedures regarding project financial management for the 6 projects have been prepared and properly
distributed. Similar policies and procedures for the Project are currently under preparation by FILO
and will be properly distributed once available. In addition, task team visited some universities and
evaluated internal controls in place in the relevant management offices and the financial units. It was
noted that internal control system of the universities visited is adequate and effective and no
significant weaknesses were found. Within FILO, the task team noted clear segregation of
authorization, verification and reconciliation; Financial/accounting staff has well-defined job
description and segregation of duty is maintained.
Accounting System
4.   The High Education Accounting Standard issued by Ministry of Finance (MOF) in December
1997 has been adopted by all universities in PRC for their own financial management and accounting.
However, accounts and reports relating to the Projects are currently set up in accordance with
"Temporary Regulations on Financial and Accounting management for Projects Financed by the
World Bank" (the "Regulations" ) issued by MOF. The Regulations were issued in 1993 and further
revised in 1997 and presumably incorporated requirements stipulated by the Bank. Accrual
accounting will be adopted for the Project, which is in line with other Bank financed projects in PRC.
Original vouchers and supporting documents will be maintained by respective financial units of
participating universities and activities outside the Project will be properly segregated.



68
Budgeting and Planning
5.   The Financial Department of MOE is in charge of the Project preparation, and the overall
Project budget has been prepared by the Financial Department of MOE with participation from the 28
universities. MOE Finance Department is also responsible for monitoring the use of the Project
funds. The annual budget plan of the Project will be prepared by FILO and implemented by
participating universities and FILO.
Financial Reporting
6.   Participating universities will provide FILO with annual financial statements prepared in
accordance with format and content prescribed by FILO. The reports will cover both the Bank funds
and local funds.
Auditing
7.   Project auditing will be performed by the National Audit Office (NAO) or its braru.hes, and
annual audited reports will be due to the Bank within 6 months after the end of each reporting year.
The audit arrangement is similar to other Bank financed projects in PRC.
Special Account and Disbursement
8.   The Special Account will be managed by FILO. FILO will prepare and submit to the Bank
disbursement applications. For Goods, FILO will prepare application documentation and supporting
documents; for training and certain local expenditures, participating universities will prepare the
disbursement documentation and submit to FILO for approval. In other ongoing education projects,
the delays in processing of reimbursement claims and flow of funds has been one of the major
problems because of rather complicated internal disbursement procedures which involve both project
management office and financial bureau at respective levels. It is believed that disbursement
arrangement proposed for the Project will be able to resolve such problem.
Agreements reached
Financial Reports
9.   To meet the Bank's requirements, the following reports are to be submitted by the Project on
semi-annual basis:
*    Balance Sheet
*    Statement of sources and uses of funds by project component
*    Statement of Implementation of Project
*    Statement of special account
FLO will be responsible for consolidating information collected from respective participating
universities to come up with the required statements at the Project level.
Financiallaccounting operation manual
10.  To ascertain that accurate accounts of project activities will be available on a timely basis,
FLO is now preparing detailed guidelines on project accounting and has agreed that a comprehensive
operation manual covering all major areas of the Project will be developed and made available before
effectiveness to all staff.



69
Annex8
TYPICAL PROJECT MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF FINANCE                  MINSTRY OF EDUCATION      | STATE DEVElOPMENT PLANNING COMMISSION 
- |                      : |          ~~~~~~~~~COMMISSIONl
T
PROJECT LEADING GROUP
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
FOREIGN INVESTMENT LOAN OFFICE
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
HIGHER EDUCATION ADVISORY PANEL                  HIGHER EDUCATION DEPARTMENT
{          1    ~~~~~MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
PROJECT UNIVERSITIES                            PARTNER INSTITUTIONS
PROJECT UNIVERSITY
LEADING GROUP
, _             ~~~~~~~~Joint
I = ~~~~~~Leading
PROJECT UNIVERSITY              Group
FOREIGN INVESTMENT LOAN OFFICE
LABIEQUIPMENT      TEACHING AFFAIRSFlACl                 |
DMSION               DIVISION             DIVISION     l
PROJECT UNITS AND LAB
P     CENTERSd    i
Prepared by Ministry of Education



70
Annex 9
Documents in the Project File*
A.    GOVERNMENT PROJECT DOCUMENTS
1.    Project Implementation Plan
2.     Project Procurement Plan
3.     Project proposals from 28 institutions
4.     Project proposal from MOE for National-Level Technical Assistance Activities
5.     Consolidated Statistical Tables:
Table 1: Basic Statistics of Project University in 1997
Table 2: The Revenue and Expenditure of Project University Since 1995(I)
Table 3: The Planning of the Project University for 2004
Table 4: Cost Analysis of the Project University
Table 6: Cost Statement of Personnel Training for Project University
Table 7: Project Effectiveness Indicator(I)
Table 8: Sustainable Effectiveness Analysis of the Project
6.     Financial Management Guidelines for Project Institutions
B.    OFFICIAL POLICY DOCUMENTS
Government of China. Decision on Education Reform. Beijing, China. 1985.
Govermment of China. Guidelines of China's Educational Reform and Development. Beijing, China.
1993.
Ministry of Education: Higher Education Law (pending translation into English). Beijing, China.
1998.
State Education Commission of China. The Development and Reform of Education in China, 1986-
1988. Beijing, China. 1989.
C.    BANK TEAM MISSION DOCUMENTS
1.    Project Costab Files
2.     Summary of Social Assessment Study
3.     Procurement Review
4.     Economic and Financial Analysis (Full Text and Tables)
5.     Aide Memoire: Preparation Mission, July 1998
6.     Aide Memoire: Pre-Appraisal Mission, November 1998
7.     Aide Memoire: Appraisal Mission, January 1999 (includes guidelines for Study Tours and
Dissemination Workshop TORs)
D.    RELATED DOCUMENTS
World Bank. Higher Education: The Lessons of Experience. Washington, DC. 1994.
World Bank. CHINA Higher Education Reform. A World Bank Country Study, Washington DC.
1997.
Chinese University of Hong Kong. Report on a Study of the Learning Experiences of Second Year
Science and Engineering Students in China. CUHK Institute of Educational Research, mimeograph.
1999.
*Including electronic files.



71
Annex 10
Project Processing Schedule
Project Schedule                               Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)      June ,1998           June, 1998
Appraisal mission departure              January, 1999        January, 1999
Negotiations                             March, 1999          March, 1999
Planned date of Effectiveness            September, 1999
Prepared by:        Ministry of Education
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grants; Consultant Trust Funds
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Hena Mukherjee (TTL), Dingyong Hou, Susan Brown (EASED); Shobhana Sosale, Cao Xiaonan
(HDNED); Jamil Salmi (LCC3C); Kin Bing Wu (LCHSD); Shen Chau-Ching, Chu Junxue, Guo
Xiaowei, Lin Zongcheng (EACCF); R. Gopalkrishnan (COSU); Margaret Png, Nicolett DeWitt
(LEGEA); Kim Hyung Min, Yi-ling Liu (LOAAS).
Consultants who contributed included:
Hon Chan Chai, John Fielden, Samih Mikhail, Erik Thulstrup, Mun Tsang
Peer Reviewers were:
Peter Moock (EASED), William Experton (LCSHD)
Ruth Hayhoe (Director, Institute of Education, Hong Kong), He Jin (Senior Advisor, UNDP,
Beijing)



72
Annex 11
Status of Bank Group Operations in China
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Loan or    Fiscal
Project ID       Credit      Year       Borrower                Purpose
No.                                                             IBRD       IDA     Cancellations   Undisbursed
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 207
Active Loans
CN-PE-3591         IBRD43090    1998   PRC                STATE FARMS COMMERCI            150.00        0.00         0.00         150.00
CN-PE-3606         IBRD43040    1998   GOC                ENERGY CONSERVATION              63.00        0.00         0.00          63.00
CN-PE-40185        IBRD42370    1998   PRC                SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT             95.00        0.00         0.00          95.00
CN-PE-51736        IBRD43030    1998   GOC                E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR            250.00        0.00         0.00         250.00
CN-PE-34081        IBRD42000    1997   PRC                XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II            230.00        0.00         0.00         230.00
CN-PE-34081        IBRD42001    1997   PRC                XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II            200.00        0.00         0.00         190.25
CN-PE-3590         IBRD41870    1997   PRC                QINBA MTS. POVTY RED             30.00        0.00         0.00          30.00
CN-PE-3590         IDAN0280      1997   PRC               QINBA MTS. POVTY RED              0.00      150.00         0.00         141.21
CN-PE-3635         IDA28980      1997   PRC               VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ              0.00       20.00         0.00          16.61
CN-PE-3635         IBRD4063A    1997   PRC                VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ             10.00        0.00         0.00          10.00
CN-PE-3637         IDAN0270      1997   PRC               NATL RUR WATER III                0.00       70:0-         0.00          66.25
CN-PE-36405        IBRD41790    1997   PRC                WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA           400.00         0.00         0.00         358.66
CN-PE-3643         IBRD40990    1997   PRC                XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II           300.00         0.00         0.00         268.81
CN-PE-3650         IBRD41720    1997   GOC                TUOKETUO POWER/INNER           400.00         0.00         0.00         400.00
CN-PE-3654         IBRD41240    1997   PRC                HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2           400.00         0.00         0.00         400.00
CN-PE-36952        IDA29540      1997   PRC               BASIC ED. IV                      0.00       85.00         0.00          76.95
CN-PE-38988        IBRD41610    1997   PRC                HEILONGJIANG ADP                120.00        0.00         0.00         117.00
CN-PE-44485        IBRD41970    1997                      SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO             400.00        0.00         0.00         400.00
CN-PE-34618        IBRD3967A    1996   PRC                LABOR MARKET DEV.                10.00        0.00         0.00          10.00
CN-PE-34618        IDA28000      1996   PRC               LABOR MARKET DEV.                 0.00       20.00         0.00          15.60
CN-PE-3507         IBRD3933A    1996   GOC                ERTAN HYDRO II                 177.68         0.00         0.00          51.63
CN-PE-3507         IBRD3933B    1996   GOC                ERTAN HYDRO II                   88.84        0.00         0.00           4.04
CN-PE-3563         IBRD40010    1996   PRC               ANIMAL FEED                      150.00        0.00         0.00         150.00
CN-PE-3569         IBRD39290    1996   P.R.C.             SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI            260.00        0.00         7.75         141.26
CN-PE-3589         IDA27940      1996   PRC               DISEASE PREVENTION                0.00     100.00          0.00          78.99
CN-PE-3594         IBRD40280    1996   PRC                GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR              60.00        0.00         0.00          60.00
CN-PE-3594         IDA28700      1996   PRC              GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                0.00       90.00         0.00          70.50
CN-PE-3599         IBRD40550    1996   YUNNAN PROV.   YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                  125.00        0.00         0.00         125.00
GOV.
CN-PE-3599         IDA28920      1996   YUNNAN PROV.    YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                  0.00       25.00         0.00          16.54
GOV.
CN-PE-3602         IBRD39660    1996   PRC                HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO            125.00        0.00         0.00         125.00
CN-PE-3602         IDA27990      1996   PRC               HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO              0.00       25.00         0.00          15.33
CN-PE-3638         IBRD40440    1996   PRC                SEEDS SECTOR COMNER.             80.00        0.00         0.00          80.00
CN-PE-3638         IDA28860      1996   PRC               SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.              0.00       20.00         0.00          10.05
CN-PE-3646         IBRD40450    1996   PRC                CHONGQING IND POL CT            170.00        0.00         0.00         170.00
CN-PE-3648         IBRD39870    1996   SHANGHAI MUN.   SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE              250.00         0.00         0.00         211.80
GOVT
CN-PE-3649         IDA28340      1996   CHINA             SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV              0.00      100.00         0.00          49.20
CN-PE-3652         IBRD39860    1996   PRC                2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY           210.00         0.00         0.00         178.56
CN-PE-36950        IDA28310      1996   PRC               BASIC ED. POOR III                0.00      100.00         0.00          39.91
CN-PE-40513        IBRD40270    1996   PRC                2ND HENAN PROV HWY             210.00         0.00         0.00         198.00
CN-PE-3493         IBRD39106    1995   PRC                INLAND WATERWAYS               210.00         0.00         0.00         142.81
CN-PE-3571         IBRD38976    1995   PRC                RAILWAYS VII                   400.00         0.00         0.00         392.00
CN-PE-3585         IBRD37880    1995   GOC                SHENYANG IND. REFORM            175.00        0.00         0.00         122.24
CN-PE-3596         IBRD3874A    1995   PRC                YANGTZE BASIN WATER              97.26        0.00         0.00          65.06
CN-PE-3596         IDA27100      1995   PRC               YANGTZE BASIN WATER               0.00      110.00         0.00           9.45
CN-PE-3598         IBRD37810    1995                      LIAONING ENVIRONMENT            110.00        0.00         0.00          75.09
CN-PE-3600         IBRD3847A    1995   PRC                TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME           194.99         0.00         0.00         174.53
CN-PE-3603         IBRD3773A    1995   PRC                ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE           262.51         0.00         0.00         240.11
CN-PE-3603         IDA26420      1995   PRC               ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE              0.00       75.00         0.00           6.20
CN-PE-36041        IBRD38736    1995   MOF                FISCAL & TAX REF. &              25.00        0.00         0.00          25.00
CN-PE-36041        IDA27090      1995   MOF               FISCAL & TAX REF. &               0.00       25.00         0.00          17.73
CN-PE-3612         IBRD37870    1995   PRC                XINJIANG HIGHWAY I              150.00        0.00         0.00          95.75
CN-PE-3634         IDA26550      1995   PRC              MATERNAL CHILD HEALT               0.00       90.00         0.00          33.43
CN-PE-3636         IDA26510      1995   PRC               BASIC EDUC IN POOR &              0.00      100.00         0.00          17.64
CN-PE-3639         IBRD39066    1995   PRC                SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC             47.50        0.00         0.00          35.59
CN-PE-3639         IDA27440      1995   PRC               SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC              0.00      200.00         0.00          99.00
CN-PE-3642         IBRD3846A    1995                      ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT             154.15        0.00         0.00          93.74
CN-PE-3642         IBRD3846B    1995                      ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT             215.67        0.00         0.00         178.66
CN-PE-3647         IDA26540      1995   PRC               ECONOMIC LAW REFORM               0.00       10.00         0.00           6.02
CN-PE-36947        IBRD3848A    1995   GOC                SICHUAN TRANSMISSION           270.00         0.00         0.00         196.37
CN-PE-37156        IBRD3914A    1995   PRC                IODINE DEF. DISORDER              7.00        0.00         0.00           7.00
CN-PE-37156        IDA27560      1995   PRC               IODINE DEF. DISORDER              0.00       20.00         0.00          11.37
CN-PE-3502         IDA25390      1994   MOH               RUR HEALTH MANPOWER               0.00      110.00         0.00          40.30
CN-PE-3504         IBRD37480    1994   PRC                HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL           380.00         0.00         0.00         115.10
H'WAYS
CN-PE-3540         IDA26160      1994   PRC               LOESS PLATEAU                     0.00      150.00         0.00          41.90



73
Original Azmount in USS Millions
Loan or   Fiscal
Project ID       Credit      Year        Borrower              Purpose
No.                                                             IBRD       IDA     Cancellations   Undisbursed
CN-PE-3557         IDA26230      1994   PRC               FOREST RESOURCE DEV               0.00     200.00          0.00          94.86
CN-PE-3562         IBRD37270    1994   PRC                XIAOLANGDI                      460.00        0.00         0.00          23.36
MULTIPURPOSE
CN-PE-3586         IBRD3711S    1994   PRC                SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT            160.00        0.00         0.00          79.76
CN-PE-3593         IDA25710      1994   PRC               SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                0.00      205.00         0.00          58.55
CN-PE-3595         IDA25630      1994    PRC              RED SOILS II DEVELOP              0.00      150.00         0.00          46.75
CN-PE-3609         IBRD3716A    1994   GOC                SICHUAN GAS DEV &               175.45        0.00         0.00         145.08
CONSERVATION
CN-PE-3622         IBRD3652S    1994   SHANGHAI           SHANGHAI MTP II                 150.00        0.00         0.00          10.39
MUNICIPAL
GOVT
CN-PE-3626         IBRD3681A    1994   GOC                FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY              80.33        0.00         0.00          60.53
CN-PE-3633         IBRD3687A    1994   GOVERNMENT OF   TELECOMKUNICATIONS                 132.76        0.00         0.00          79.19
PRC
CN-PE-3641         IBRD3718A    1994   PRC                YANGZHOU THERMAL POWER          248.16        0.00         0.00          89.75
CN-PE-3644         IDA26050      1994    PRC              XIAOLANGDI                        0.00      110.00         0.00          37.65
RESETTLEMENT
CN-PE-3473         IDA24750      1993   P.R.C.            ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES              0.00      110.00         0.00          43.82
CN-PE-3509         IDA24570      1993   PRC               CHANGCHUN WAT SUPP &              0.00      120.00        27.55          24.15
CN-PE-3512         IBRD3552S    1993   GOVT OF            SHANGHAI PORT REST.             124.26        0.00         0.00           5.11
PEOPLES REP.
OF C
CN-PE-3516         IBRD35305    1993   PRC                GUANGDONG PROV.                 240.00        0.00         0.00          21.43
TRANSPORT
CN-PE-3526         IBRD3515A    1993   GOC                SHUIKOU II                       43.86        0.00         0.00          18.40
CN-PE-3533         IBRD3572A    1993                      TIANJIN IND. II                  82.68        0.00         0.00          56.09
CN-PE-3559         IDA24620      1993   PRC               AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI              0.00      11S.00         0.00          10.43
CN-PE-3561         IDA24110      1993   PRC               SICHUAN ADP                       0.00      147.00         0.00          22.59
CN-PE-3567         IDA24710      1993   PRC               EFFECTIVE TEACHING S              0.00      100.00         0.00          48.24
CN-PE-3570         IBRD35810    1993   PRC                RAILWAY VI                      420.00        0.00         0.00         125.14
CN-PE-3580         IBRD35820    1993   PRC                SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON.             250.00        0.00         0.00          29.05
PROTECT.
CN-PE-3581         IBRD35310    1993   PRC                HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT           120.00        0.00         0.00          16.15
CN-PE-3592         IDA24470     1993   PRC                REF. INST'L.&                     0.00       50.00         0.00          21.57
PREINVEST(CRISP)
CN-PE-3597         IBRD3560A    1993   PRC                TAIHU BASIN FLOOD                88.65        0.00         0.00          64.71
CONTROL
CN-PE-3597         IDA24630      1993   PRC               TAIHU BASIN FLOOD                 0.00      100.00         0.00           4.92
CONTROL
CN-PE-3616         IBRD3606A    1993   PRC                TIANHUANGPING HYDRO             196.60        0.00         0.00          96.63
CN-PE-3623         IDA24230      1993   PRC               FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A              0.00       60.00         0.00          33.95
CN-PE-3627         IBRD3624A    1993   PRC                GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P            325.00      . 0.00         0.00         325.00
CN-PE-3627         IDA25180      1993   PRC               GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P              0.00      165.00         0.00          53.50
CN-PE-3632         IDA25220      1993   ROC               ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS              0.00       50.00         0.00          14.91
CN-PE-3486         IBRD3406A    1992                      RAILWAYS V                       33.73        0.00         0.00          29.05
CN-PE-3492         IBRD3412S    1992   GOC                DAGUANGBA-HAINAN                 28.88        0.00         0.00           2.83
CN-PE-3492         IDA23050      1992   GOC               DAGUANGBA-HAINAN                  0.00       37.00         0.00             .42
CN-PE-3503         IBRD3462A    1992                      ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE             26.78        0.00         0.00          14.02
CN-PE-3534         IBRD3471A    1992   PRC                ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP             70.13        0.00         0.00          26.59
CN-PE-3544         IDA23390      1992   PEOPLE'S          EDUC DEV IN POOR PRO              0.00      130.00         0.00           4.06
REPUBLIC OF
CHIN
CN-PE-3555         IDA23070      1992   PRC               GUANGDONG AG. DEVT.               0.00      162.00         0.00           7.36
CN-PE-3564         IBRD3415A    1992   BEIJING            BEIJING ENVIRONMENT              32.90        0.00         0.00          28.58
MUNICIPALITY
CN-PE-3564         IDA23120      1992   BEIJING           BEIJING ENVIRONMENT               0.00       80.00         0.00           3.69
MUNICIPALITY
CN-PE-3565         IDA22960      1992                     SHANGHAI METRO TRANS              0.00       60.00         0.00           3.75
CN-PE-3568         IDA23670      1992   R.O.C.            TIANJIN URB DEV & EN              0.00      100.00         0.00          32 32
CN-PE-3587         IDA23360      1992   PRC               RURAL WAT SUPP & SAN              0.00      110.00         0.00            1.80
CN-PE-3624         IDA23170      1992   MIN. OF           INFECTIOUS DISEASES               0.00      129.60         0.00          51.41
PUBL.HEALTH
CN-PE-3478         IDA22100      1991   PRC               KEY STUDIES DEVELOPM              0.00      131.20         0.00             .82
CN-PE-3560         IDA22420      1991   PRC               HENAN AGRIC. DEVT.                0.00      110.00         0.00           3.22
CN-PE-3582         IBRD3337T    1991   PRC                IRRIG. AGRIC. INTENS             45.05        0.00         0.00            2.37
CN-PE-3472         IBRD29685    1988   PRC                RAILWAY IV                      171.30        0.00         0.00           2.04
Total                                                                                  11,370.12   4,426.80         35.30       9,283.23
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               6,441.79            12,596.06           19,037.85
of which has been repaid:                  17.17            2,122.25            2,139.42
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              15,744.44            10,116.00           25,860.44
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :            9,283.23                  .21            9,283.44



74
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94-
Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory,
S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and
Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



75
China at a glance                                                              1/28/99
East   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Asia &   middle-
China    Pacific  income       Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                   1,227.2     1,753     2,282                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   860       970      1,230
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                  1,055.4     1,707     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Populatlion (%)                                       1.1       1.3       1.2
Laborforce(%)                                         1.1       1.4       1.3     GNP           /                  Gross
per         ,pnimary
Most recent estimate (latest yearavallable, 1991-97)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% ot population below national poverty line)  7
Urban population (% of total population)              32        32        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      70        68        89
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              32        38        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            16         16        ..              Access to safewater
Access to safe water (% of population)                90         84       84
Iliteracy (% of population age 15+)                   19        17        19
Gross primary enrollment (% of schooP-age population)  120     118       114              China
Male                                               121       120       116                Lover-middle-income group
Female                                             120       119       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     1986      1996      1997    1
Economic ratlos*
GOP (US$ billions)                        151.6    295.7      816.5    902.0
Gross domestic investmentlGDP              27.9      37.7      39.6      38.2
Exports of goods and services/GDP           5.0      12.2      21.0      23.0                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 28.5     35.2       41.7      42.7
Gross national savings/GDP                 28.5    35.3        40.4      41.4                       T
Current account balance/GDP                  0.2     -2.5       0.9       3.2
Interest,paymentslGDP                         ..     0.2        0.6       0.6     Domestic    <               Investment
Total debt/GDP                                ..      8.0      15.8      16.3     Savings
Total debt service/exports                    ,,      9.6       8.7       8.6
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..        ..      14.9
Present value of debt/exports                ..        ..        ..     62,7                   I
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                9.3     10.1      9.6        8.8        -.  China
GNPpercapita                       8.3      8.6      8.7        7A4        ..              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and sevices      18,8    16.6       5.6       27.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                 3
Agricunure                                 32.8      27.1      20.4      187      30 
Industry                                   45.4        44.0    49.5     49.2    203
Manufacturing                             29.5     35.5      37.8      37.3     
Services                                    21.7     28.9      30.1      32.111.0 
Private consumption                        64.0    51.4        46.7      45.7            02   93   94   95   gs   97
General govemment consumption                7.5     13.4      11.6      11.6   1
Imports of goods and services               4.5      14.7      18.9     18.5                   0GDI   --*-GDP
197646  1987-97       1996     1997   r
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth of exports and Imports (%/6)
Agriculture                                  6.0      4.4       5.1       3.5    40 T
Industry                                    11.0    13.8       12.1      10.8      T
Manufacturng                              12.8    13.3       11.6       9.9 t
Services                                    12.0     8.7        7.9       8.3    20
Private consumption                          9.3      8.8      11.1       6.2    10
General govemment consumption               9.4       9.9       9.5       8.2    on_i
Gross domestic investment                   10.8     11.2       8.2       5.6           92   93   94   95   95   97
Imports of goods and services              22.5      12.8       5.9      13.1            -     Exports   Irrports
Gross national product                      9.8       9.9       9.8       8.5            -
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



76
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domesticprikes                               1976     1988       1996      1997       Inflation I%)
(%/ change)                                                                          25
Consumer prices                                 ..      6.5        9.4       7.9    29r
Implicit GOP deflator                          4.0      4.6        5.9       1.2     16
Govemnment finance                                                                   a,
(1% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                              _____
Current revenue                                 ..     24.0       11.4      12.0             92    93    94    96    9      97
Current budget balance                          ..      5.6        0.6       0.6                - D  eltr-*-P
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..     -1.8       -1.5      -1.5             -G      Pdfao   0-P
TRADE
1976     1986       1998     1997       Epr  n  motlvl  U$ml.
(US$ millions)                                                                        Epr  n   motlvl  USml.
Total exports (fob)                              .30,942    151,066   182,696        2000
rood                                          ..    4,448     10,232    11,054
Fuel                                                3,683      5,929     6,987     15,0
Manufactures                                       19,670   129,141   158,767
Total imports (cif)                                  42,904    138,838   142,361     109,909o
Food                                                2,002      7,866     6,306                  olill
Fuel and energy                                       504      6,877    10,306 
Capital goods                                      20,415     59,610    57,930
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..      66                                   91  92  93  94  SC  55  57
Import prce index (1995=100)                    ..      69                                        aExports      mimparts
Termsxof trade (1995=-100)                      ..       96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               17       196         99       197        Current account balance to GDF I(%)
Exports of goods and services               7,383   29,583    171,700   207,253 
Imnports of goodseand services               7,125   37,472    154,100   166,755       1
Resource balance                              258   -7,889      17,600    40,496
Net inoome                                      0      176    -12,370   -15,900
Net current transfers                           0      255       1,922    4,660          M     M
Current account balance                       258   -7,458       7,152    29,258          91  92          94    5          7
Financing items (net)                           -.   5,410    26,248       6,599
Changes in net reserves                         ..    2,048    -35,400   -35,857     -
Memo.:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          . 16,417    111,728   146,448
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)               1.9      3.5        8.3       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996     1997     -   _________           _________
(US1$ millions)                                                                       Composition of 1997 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                 23,719    128,817   146,697
lBRD                                          .      965       7,616    8,239                        A  ,3
IDA                                           ..     774      7,579     7,830                        A: 38,239 :,83
Total debt service                              ..    2,974     15,756    18,445                                    D  ,0
lBRD                                          ..      66        840       858
IDA                                           ..       8         73        81                                        E: 20,7852
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..     155        249       228
Official creditors                           ..     1,165      4,401    4,315
Private creditors                            ..     3,693      6,454    8,134
Foreign direct investment                    ..     1,875    40,180    44,236
Portfolio equity                             ..        0      3,466     8,457                      F 547
World Sank program
Commitments                                  ..     1,120      1,900    2,425      A IBDEBiael
Disbursements                                ..      607      2,097     2,275       e-o       -Crrmtiaea               rvt
Principal repayments                         ..        0        364       377      C - IMPF                      0-Short-term
Nettfows                                      ..     607      1,734     1,898
Interest payments                            ..       75        549       562
Net transfers                                ..      532      1,185     1,335
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                          1/28/99



77
Annex 13
Summary Education Profile: China
Indicators                     [  1980   [  1985           1990         1995   |    1998
Number of Schools
Regular Institutions of Higher Education          675         1016         1075        1054          1022
Adult Higher Education Institutions              2682         1216         1321        1156           962
Secondary Schools:  General                     118377       93221        87631       81020          77888
Vocational                 3314        8070         9164        10147         10074
Specialized                3069        3557         3982        4049          4109
Number of Full-time Teachers (10,000 persons)
Regular Institutions of Higher Education          24.7        34.4         39.5        40.1           40.7
% of Females                       25.5         26.7        29.1         32.9          36.3
Professors                                  0.4          0.5         1.5         3.1            3.7
Associate Professors                        1.3          2.9         8.4         10.7          11.6
Lecturers                                   11.2        13.7         14.8        16.7          15.5
Instructors                                 5.3          3.9         1.2         2.2            2.2
Assistants                                  6.6         13.5         13.5         7.5           7.8
Adult Higher Education Institutions               3.4          6.9          8.8         9.8           9.7
Secondary Schools:  General                      302.0        265.2       303.3        333.4         369.7
Vocational                  2.3         14.1        22.4         29.2          33.6
Specialized                12.8         17.4        23.4         25.7          27.9
Student Enrollment (10,000 persons)
Regular Institutions of Higher Education         114.4        170.3       206.3        290.6         340.9
% of Females                       23.4         30.0        33.7         35.4          38.3
Science
Undergraduates                        8.4          9.8         9.5         31.0          35.9
Graduates                             0.5          1.7          1.8         2.4           2.3
Engineering
Undergraduates                        38.4        58.0         74.6        116.7         135.5
Graduates                             0.7          3.6         4.1          6.6           8.0
Humanities
Undergraduates                        5.8         12.7         9.9         106.4         129.2
Graduates                             0.3          0.5          1.8         9.5           5.6
Others
Undergraduates                       61.8         89.8        112.3        36.6          40.2
Graduates                             0.7          2.8          1.5         2.0           2.7
Adult Higher Education Institutions              155.4        198.6       166.6        257.0         282.2
Secondary Schools:  General                     5508.1       4706.0      4586.0       5371.0        6301.0
Seniors                 969.8       741.1        717.3       713.2           938.0
Vocational                 45.4        229.5        295.0       448.3          541.6
Specialized                124.3       157.1        224.4       372.2         498.1
Student-Teacher Ratio
Regular Institutions of Higher Education          4.6          5.0         5.2          7.2           8.4
Adult Higher Education Institutions               45.7        28.8         18.9        26.2           29.2
Secondary Schools:  General                       18.2         17.7        15.1        16.1           17.0
Vocational                 19.7         16.3        13.2         15.4          16.2
Specialized                 9.7         9.0          9.6         14.5          17.9
Administrative/Support Staff (10,000 persons)
Regular Institutions of Higher Education          38.5        52.7         61.1        64.0           62.2
Adult Higher Education Institutions               3.2          7.4         11.4         11.5          10.7
Secondary Schools:  General                       87.7        90.5         95.8        96.1          92.4
Vocational                  1.8         7.5         11.9         14.2          14.2
Specialized                17.0         22.9        25.8        27.3           26.8
Note: I) This summary provides a glance at higher education development in China between 1980 and 1998. 2) Adult Higher Education
Institutions include Radio & TV Universities, Colleges for Management Cadres, Pedagogical Colleges, Independent Correspondence Colleges,
Schools of Higher Education for Staff, Workers & Peasants, and Correspondence Departments or Evening Universities Run by Regular
Institutions of Higher Education. 3) General and vocational secondary schools include both junior and senior components. Specialized
secondary schools are technical and teacher training schools. 4) Administrative/Support Staff in higher education also includes those non-
teaching staff such as librarians, lab technicians, researchers, etc. 5) Sources: China Statistical Yearbook 1980-97: Educational Statistics
Yearbook of China 1980-97; Essential Statistics of Education in China, 1998. Reminding: the State Education Commission issued new
classification of the fields of study for higher education in both regular and adult institutions as well as for specialized secondary schools in 1994.
The new classification has been used for statistical purposes since then.



IDRD 30120
70                            00                            90'                          10'                          10'                          120'                          130'
500
RUSSIAN   FEDERATION50                                                                                                            PrecUnvsie:
-Beijing Univerity
A Beijing Aeronautics University
KAZAKHSTAN                               l,->Beijinrg Science and Techrnology University
~~~~~~~  I,                                                            '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /~~~~~~~~~~  ABeijing Institut of Technology
s.,,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                       A ~~~~~~~~~~~~Beijing Normal Uninersity
"""N,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         "'?7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                  '                   1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~Beijing Medical Jninersity
'k,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~/7Dalian University of Technology
H' EILONGJIANG                                Southeast Universiy
-UZBBI(tSTAN  ,1                                                                                                                                                                      Hoochong Institote of Technology~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HrinHabi nsitteo Tcholg
UZBEKISTAN                                                                               ~                                                                                                                               Hua.k.ng Institute of Technology
5"  ON  01      A                                                                                                  <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jilin Universiy
~~~*  ,~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                      ,r                      Jilin Joiversity of Technalagy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilnUnvestyofTckoJg
(~'V  I'.  ,,Chanacan""so.ein.  ~  "'           Lanzlrou Univesity
tO, 30  '3                                                 s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0-,,,p pphn   t3.-Nakn  Uivrst
REPUBLIC  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'            0,                                                                                                                                            Qisgdoo Ocean University~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  ~  M ajig  nirst
74, 20' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ /                          "0           '                                                          NSaonkai NomlUniversity
"~~"""-.              *"""                  /    '                0/RON             OEM                           §0 Sha~~~14\Qnghai iOceang University
>V Sinchuan University
00'  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~         ~          ~          ~          cta0 ~~~~~~~~~    ~         ~        ~        Z~~~~,,KOREA'~~~~~~~~~~~~                   A  Wo~~~~~~haanx Nrn University
26Zhe,jhiJioong University
6, 22                            M.                         2,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ISichan ioln University
X  N J i A N G                                                  3      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EO' Hohot'-T  Chinin UniversityofSineadTcnlg
/       (~~hn   0            Tyu~n 1  IgoSilia      gREP O                                                     ", Mihnig0dTcnly University
' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                NG                       Xf,i'anner-Mongoi University
OO-nup, cvyjodgoent on So                                                                           I  ~~~~~~~~~''~        ""'                                                             3 Booms Iron and~~~~;  Sieel    n  ecnlg
Icua                                                                                                   C Yno n Bdectioy   Colg
o,onyevde-oonentnr  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     l,                 B~~~~oI    a Xov      HFNAN                        IN   /J~~~~~~~~~~~                               5 Northsvesi Normal Universi-1,oloy tUi,esit
d-.;-Ii.. -d                                                                                  Ln P;                      ~.'o,Cyr                                                                                aritne Inatttionaies:Isilt
Gy, .y  k.                                                                                                                                                                                   3B..t.u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  'ef,c"oN&ehtss'    anhe IrognadSeerin  College
k,,,0                       '.®Chnngdo                                                          0'0A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 09/Al                    P Yu~HEAN  Nnon UniersityNra   nies
z~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                            IIHII~~~~~~ 0  R    0    Uh  o    "t 6Hneilong                                .ion    Meinealog  College
___________________________________                                                                  5esn.                             Hn1ho           c'Dalttvhia  NationaGorges Institute
Chong~~~Ang  '07771  "  ~~~~     ZNEJIANG                                          12 Jili~~8YncNorma EgneigCollege
30'                                                                                                                                                              9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9k  '.    3Yunhio  Univ-rsity
N           1)  - Onn   A~ N     >         0      Cl HUBEhI    alwyInttue
,Lh.sa               :ji                             G I/  QJFUIAHeXtilri~angUniversity                                                                                                     oleg
REFORM   PROJECT                                                                 2~~~~~~  GutyChngduIue   . Gre nttt
$  ~~~~~~~~~~,  0                         cc                                                         5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 Jiling Normal  Univergie
Chcng>(-g                                                                                                - t1  YoninanNra University
PAGH      RTNERDNSIUCTIONS                                                                                                                                                                                toNYngxia University o ndsr
REFORM   P RO" J E C T                                                              G U YLZNN N  UANX            GAODN2 Xinjiirg University
G.iy.n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                        ;5~~~~~o  Gtcltngx ANilormal  Collegeit
O    SELECTED CITIES                     ,"'k,         ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~        toner-os~~~~~ongolio Polytechnic Universitymal nivesit
®    PROVINCE CAPITALS  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~it  ~~~v~~~{   1""                   *"'li~annq                                                                                            37 YLiyokng Teacher's College
PROVINCE  OUNIV      ARSIIES                                                 0    VIETNAM                     0 72  Aunhoi University                                                                                   f nusr
BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                       Oct~~~~~~~~~~~6 NNA    GA GD2  Ainhainora University
INSLETERNA TIONA                                                                                    GUAEOPENGXIc                                                                                     21 Xichang Vorcational Universit
LAO    ~ ~                          H 3090                                                  o                        28 Chong\ing Arcitatreni Uninersity
0    P200 V00N    60 BOUDAIE                                                            VIETMA25BRrS to                                                           troo
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                               26 Anhui Normal Univers4y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APIL  99



