Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3213 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Higher Education Reform Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 29, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3213 CHA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equal to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) (the Loan); 
and 
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows;  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution 
No. 183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 
26, 1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such 
countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a 
Participating Country or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of 
the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“FILO” means the Foreign Investment and Loan Office within MOE. 
(b)
“HEAP” means the Higher Education Advisory Panel established under Part 
C(3) of the Project. 
(c)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement. 
(d)
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, and any successor 
thereto. 
(e)
“Partner Institution” means, in respect of a Project University, one (or 
more) university or institution, selected by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association, with which said Project University shall develop collaborative 
arrangements under Part B of the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(f)
“Project Universities” means, collectively, the universities and 
institutions, selected by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, included 
in Parts A and B of this Agreement; and “Project University” means any of the “Project 
Universities”. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
Page  3
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 36,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
special account in dollars in a commercial bank and on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2009, and ending February 15, 
2034.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2019, 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
Page  4
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A and B of the Project through the Project Universities, and Part C thereof 
through MOE, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, educational, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the purpose. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project 
objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Page  5
Section 
(including those for the Special Account) for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement, 
have been fulfilled.  
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820
Page  6
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex: 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN 
Beijing 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and Loan Proceeds
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
    Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
For Part A of 
the Project:
(a) Goods
  32,370,000
  19,800,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
100% of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 75% of 
local expenditures for other 
items procured locally
Page  7
(b) Training
     960,000
--
100%
(2)
For Part C of 
the Project     
(a) Training and 
     960,000
--
100%
    study tours
(b) Consultants’ 
   2,510,000
--
1005
           services
(3)
Fee
 
--      
      200,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 
of the 
Loan Agreement
  __________    
   __________
TOTAL
  36,800,000
   20,000,000
  ==========
   ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods and services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be 
“foreign expenditures”; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.  
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association and the Bank may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and 
the Loan Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
for:  (a) goods under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) 
consultants’ services under contracts awarded to consulting firms and costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants and costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training 
and study tours, regardless of the cost thereof; all under such terms and conditions 
as the Association and the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the quality 
and relevance of undergraduate basic science and engineering programs through 
integrated reforms activities in curriculum and teaching methodology. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Teaching and Learning Reforms
Improvement of the quality and relevance of science and engineering programs in 
the Project Universities and the effectiveness of the teaching and learning processes 
applied in these programs through the following curriculum and teaching reforms:  
(1)
Renewal and restructuring of academic programs through the:
(a)
development of mechanisms to obtain feedback from graduates and their 
employers on the relevance of academic programs, such mechanisms to include the 
creation and strengthening of alumni organizations and external and industrial 
Page  8
advisory committees; 
(b) 
development of institutional arrangements to ensure continuous updating 
and improvement of program-specific curricula, such arrangements to consist of faculty 
committees to be responsible for curriculum development on the basis of feedback from 
students, graduates and employers, and introduction of the results of the latest 
scientific research in the first two years of undergraduate science and engineering 
programs; and 
(c)
reorganization of academic programs, consisting of:  (i) strengthening of 
the applied aspects of science and engineering subjects; (ii) introduction of 
broad-based employer-assisted interdisciplinary courses; and (iii) introduction of a 
process of ongoing evaluation and upgrading of the structure and content of said 
programs.
(2)
Reform of educational processes through the:
(a)
(i) development and adoption of interactive student-centered learning 
strategies, including introduction of group-work activities among students; (ii) 
introduction of incentives for faculty to adopt such strategies, such as annual 
rewards for excellence in teaching; (iii) piloting of continuous teaching performance 
evaluation systems; and (iv) dissemination to other universities of the lessons 
learned from these activities;
(b) 
introduction of measures to improve access of students to science 
laboratories, computers and libraries, and to improve the quality and relevance of, 
experimental work, including (i) renovation and equipping of laboratories; (ii) 
provision of training to students in the use of laboratory equipment; and (iii) 
introduction of open-ended, design-oriented projects in laboratories;
(c) 
development and implementation in scientific laboratories of procedures 
designed to ensure safe implementation of laboratory experiments and environmentally 
sound handling and disposal of chemicals; and adoption and implementation of 
laboratory instructions and manuals on such procedures; and  
(d)
development and adoption of student-centered testing and evaluation 
strategies, including flexible course credit systems.
(3)
Enhancement of the student learning environment to encourage greater 
self-directed learning through the:
(a)
provision of appropriate learning-support services, including access to 
computer-based learning resources, improved library literature and open-access 
learning centers;  
(b)
updating of textbooks and other instructional materials, including 
computer-aided instruction materials; and  
(c)
reduction of traditional lecture class time in order to increase time 
available for self study and computer and laboratory work.
(4)
Upgrading of the skills of teachers and staff in order to facilitate their 
adoption of new learning strategies through the: 
(a)
design and provision of training in learning, teaching and evaluation 
methodologies and dissemination to other universities of lessons learned in respect of 
the application of such methodologies; and
(b)
provision of training to laboratory staff in the safe use of laboratory 
equipment and the sound environmental handling and disposal of chemicals.
Part B:
Dissemination of Curriculum and Teaching Reforms
(1)
Dissemination by Project Universities to their Partner Institutions of the 
reforms implemented under Part A of the Project, through the establishment of 
collaborative arrangements with such Partner Institutions, such arrangements to 
include, inter alia: (a) provision of training to staff of Partner Institutions in 
Page  9
science and engineering subjects and teaching methods; (b) carrying out of faculty 
exchange programs, to provide faculty of Partner Institutions with access to equipment 
and educational resources of the Project Universities; (c) sharing of resources and 
experiences between staff of the Project Universities and those of the Partner 
Institutions in respect of institutional management; (d) undertaking of joint research 
programs; and (e) development and use of electronic educational materials and 
electronic communication between teaching staff of Project Universities and students 
of Partner Institutions. 
(2)
Establishment of a system of annual rewards to Project Universities for 
excellence in the implementation of cooperative arrangements with Participating 
Institutions.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
(1)
Enhancement of the Borrower’s institutional capabilities in respect of planning 
and administration of higher education, through the carrying out of a program of:  (a) 
staff training in Project oversight and financial and procurement management; (b) 
policy-based research studies in the areas of textbook renewal, examination systems, 
graduate tracking, assessment methodologies, financing systems, and management and 
instructional software; and (c) coordinated development of textbooks and electronic 
materials for use by universities throughout the Borrower’s territory. 
(2)
Dissemination of the lessons learned from the implementation by Lanzhou 
University in the Borrower’s Province of Gansu of its pilot student financial 
assistance program. 
(3)
Establishment and operation of a higher education advisory panel to provide 
technical guidance in Project implementation and to assist the Borrower in monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, in September 1997 and in 
January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of goods to be financed in whole or in part 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the 
Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
Page  10
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (excluding 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region).
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract to be procured under international competitive and 
national competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the provisions of Part B 
and Part C.1, respectively, of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and in January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth 
in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provision of 
the following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of consultants’ services to be financed in 
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraph 1.10 
of the Consultant Guidelines to "Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be 
deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  11
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) 
of this Agreement. 
1.
Project Management
(a)
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall maintain, throughout the period of Project implementation, with terms of 
reference, membership and other resources acceptable to the Association: 
(i)
FILO, to be responsible for overall Project coordination, 
management, 
monitoring and evaluation; 
(ii)
HEAP, to be responsible for providing technical and policy advice 
to FILO, 
Project Universities and Partner Institutions 
on Project implementation issues 
and assisting FILO in monitoring 
and evaluating Project implementation; and 
(iii)
a Project implementation office in each Project University, to be 
Page  12
responsible 
for coordinating and managing the implementation of 
Project activities by said 
university. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall develop, under guidelines acceptable to the Association, guidelines 
for the financial management of the Project, and shall furnish the same to the 
Association for its review.  Thereafter, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to each 
Project University such guidelines as shall have been approved by the Association, and 
shall ensure that the financial management of the Project shall be undertaken in 
accordance with said guidelines.
2.
Annual Action Plans
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, not 
later than November 1 in each calendar year, a proposed action plan for the carrying 
out of the Project during the following calendar year, said action plan to be based in 
part on individual action plans prepared by each Project University for the purpose; 
and 
(b)
thereafter carry out such action plan as shall have been accepted by the 
Association. 
3.
Collaborative Arrangements between Project Universities and Partner Institutions
In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall ensure that: 
(a)
each Project University shall develop, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, collaborative arrangements with its Partner Institution 
or Partner Institutions, as the case may be, setting forth the specific areas of 
collaboration between said university and institutions, including a program and 
guidelines for training, faculty exchanges, joint research, and development of 
electronic communication between said university and institutions, as well as a 
financing plan for said collaboration; and 
(b)
no procurement for any activities to be carried out by a Project 
University under Part A of the Project shall be initiated unless and until said 
university shall have entered into the collaborative arrangements with its Partner 
Institution or Partner Institutions referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph. 
4.
Monitoring and Reporting 
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable 
to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association: 
(i)
semi-annual reports, not later that May 1 and November 1 in each 
calendar 
year, summarizing the monitoring and 
evaluation activities carried out by it 
pursuant to 
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, in respect of the preceding 
calendar semester, and setting forth physical and financial progress in 
Project implementation, both cumulatively, and in respect of said 
preceding calendar 
semester; 
(ii)
an annual report, not later than April 1 in each calendar year, 
summarizing 
the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out 
by it pursuant to 
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, in 
respect of the preceding calendar year, 
and setting forth 
proposed measures, indicated by said monitoring and 
evaluation activities, to ensure the continued implementation of the Project 
Page  13
and achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
(iii)
a mid-term report, not later than June 30, 2002, summarizing the 
monitoring 
and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant 
to subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, from the inception of 
the Project, and setting forth any 
proposed measures, 
indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to 
ensure 
the completion of the Project and achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and
(c)
After furnishing each report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, the Borrower shall review said report with the Association, and promptly 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient continued implementation of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $7,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 18,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as 
the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
Page  14
shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the respective Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the 
Credit Account or the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section or 
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and of the Loan allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the respective General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of 
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
Page  15
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, including the General 
Conditions applicable thereto.
