Report No. PID6872
Project Name                     China-Higher Education Reform Project (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       CNPE46051
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency              Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO)
Ministry of Education
35 Damucang Hutong
Xidan 100816, Beijing
Tel: (01) 6609-6845/6609-6679
FAX: (01) 6602-0332
Date PID Prepared                June, 1998
Project Appraisal                January, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 30, 1999
Country/Sector Background
1.     The first wave of higher education reform came in the 1950s when the then
communist government introduced a higher education system geared to train
students to meet the manpower needs of government and the society at large.
Destroyed by the Cultural Revolution (1966-76), China's higher education
system was rebuilt only in the late 1970s as one element of a strategy to
modernize the country. Much external assistance at the time was in a
piecemeal, rehabilitative mode. The 1978-94 period witnessed a remarkable
proliferation of public, regular higher education institutions -- from 598 in
1978 to 1,080 in 1994. Enrollment numbers grew from 0.86 million in 1978 to
2.8 million in 1994. Full-time students in undergraduate and short-cycle
courses grew at an annual growth rate of 7.7 percent. Graduate enrollment
rose from zero to 0.13 million by 1994. The higher education participation
rate at just over 4 percent of gross enrollment, however, is very low when
comparison to other East Asian economies. For example, the higher education
participation rate is 10 percent in Indonesia, 19 percent in Thailand, 20
percent in Hong Kong, 39 percent in Taiwan (China), and 51 percent in the
Republic of Korea. This may have serious implications for the sustainability
of economic growth and long-term social development in China. In relation to
the pressures of a growing market economy, the higher education sub-sector as
a whole faces some problems which may obstruct its further reform and
development.
2.      China's fast-growing economy with an annual average GDP growth rate of
9.89 in real terms between 1978 and 1994 has presented major challenges to the
nation's higher education system which undertakes the tasks of (a) educating
the leadership of and (b) generating knowledge for its long-term development
effort. Destroyed by the Cultural Revolution (1966-76), China's higher
education system was rebuilt only in the late '70s as one element of a
strategy to modernize the country.    The 1978-94  period witnessed remarkable
proliferation of public regular higher education institutions from 598 to
1,080 and of enrollment from 0.86 million to 2.8 million full-time students in



undergraduate and short-cycle courses at an annual growth rate of 7.7%.
Graduate enrollment rose from zero to 0.13 million by 1994. However, the
higher education participation rate at just over 4% of gross enrollment is
very low in comparison with other fast-growing East Asian economies.
3.      Since 1978, the Government has placed priority within the education
sector upon rapid expansion and improvement of higher education to help reduce
the human resource constraints on the country's economic and social
development. In 1985, the Government adopted the document Decision on
Education Reform that, inter alia, aimed at providing the mix of skills
required in a rapidly developing society; to improve efficiency, quality and
equity; and to release resources required to develop and enhance education at
lower levels. More recently, in order to speed up transformation nationwide
from a planned economy to a market economy, the Guidelines of China's
Educational Reform and Development adopted a major strategic approach of
decentralization in institutional management and administration while
maintaining managerial oversight at the macro level.
4.      A major sector study was undertaken in 1994 by the Bank with assistance
from the government to review the Chinese higher education system.
Consequently, a red-cover report entitled: China : Higher Education Reform was
published in 1997 with thorough analysis of the sector and institution-wide
issues and recommendations of policy options to the government.
Project Objectives
5.      Building on the sector work and its findings, the proposed project is
designed to achieve the overall objective of improving the quality and
relevance of undergraduate basic science and engineering programs through
integrated reform activities in curriculum and teaching methodology; and to
strengthen institutional and central curriculum planning and management so as
to improve capacity to implement reforms in teaching and learning.
Project Description
The project has three components:
(a) Achieving Improvement in Effective Teaching and Learning:
- Review and renewal of curriculum content and teaching/learning method
integrating reforms in experimental teaching/learning methods with new
equipment
- Upgrading and improving lab. faciities and utilization, library facilities
- Upgrading teacher qualifications, training of teachers in new teaching
methods and curriculum adaptation, lab. staff and librarians
- Engaging institutions in selecting, testing, evaluating current content and
teaching method, developing integrated approaches focusing on more practical
student-centered learning, with better utilization of equipment and labs
incorporating lab. safety and environmental considerations.
(b) Using Partnerships and Networks to Spread Reforms:
- Establishing cooperative relationships working on reform activities with
partner universities in poor areas
- Developing consortia/groups of institutions within project network to
advance reform work in selected discipline-based areas of expertise
- 2 -



(c) Supporting Institutional Capacity for Change
- overall coordination and oversight of development of textbooks and
instructional materials in print and electronic media;
- studies on areas to be determined such as quality assurance and
institutional evaluation technique; examination reform in higher education;
lab. safety, environment and efficiency examination reform in higher education
- pilot student assistant scheme in Lanzhou University;
- organization of national-level training workshops, seminars, production of
manuals and guidebooks, study visits;
- oversight of Chinese Experts Panel (CEP)
- institution-based management reform includes preparation and implementation
of institutional strategic plans, introduction of efficiency improvement
strategies, improving management through better utilization of MIS
Project Cost and Financing
6.      The total cost is estimated at about US$110 million.    The Government of
China is
expected to provide US$40 million with IDA financing US$50million and IBRD of
US$20 million.
Project Implementation
7.      The project will be implemented over a period of five years. The Ministry
of Education through a project specific Steering Committee chaired by a Vice
Minister would provide oversight on project implementation. A project
implementation office, Foreign Investment and Loan office ( FILO), would
provide overall coordination of project implementation and management of a
central component. The carrying out of specific project components will lie
with project institutions through the creation of a Steering Committee and a
Project Implementation Office. Project management training for institutional
staff will be jointly provided by the Bank and MOE during project preparation
and at project startup.
Sustainability
8.      Institutionally, the project contributes to the overall sustainability of
higher education through system and institution wide capacity building. The
project components are designed to improve the quality and relevance of the
undergraduate education, develop capacities for strategic planning and
improved management efficiency. This strategy would help the government and
the institutions formulate their long term policies and processes and
disseminate the experience and lessons well beyond the project institutions
and the life of the project. Financially, project funds are a small portion
of the total public expenditure on higher education during the life of the
project. The project is part of the on-going reform effort the government
finances through regular budgetary allocations and targeted investment program
based on its long term development plans and budgetary support. The project
would also assist the institutions to develop capacity and mechanisms to
diversify their financing resources in a more sustainable manner.
Project Benefits
9.      The anticipated benefits of the project are: (i) by establishing
mechanisms to monitor efficiency gains at participating institutions and
strengthening the capacity of administrations at the central and institutional
- 3 -



levels, the project will contribute to the ongoing decentralization and
expansion efforts in the nation's higher education system; (ii) by supporting
science curricula reform and establishing new market-oriented disciplines, the
project will help China train more highly skilled personnel necessary to the
sustainability of its economic development; (iii) and by reviewing and
piloting student assistance schemes, the project will reinforce the reform of
financing higher education as part of the structural reforms in the country,
addressing equity issues.
Project Risks
10.     Possible risks associated with the project are: (a) the potential impact
of the Asian financial crisis on China's macro-economic situation could cause
distortions on total public spending and demand of employment of graduates;
(b) curriculum reforms may restrict to a textbook compiling process rather
than developing on-going mechanisms and processes for curriculum renewal; (c)
the limited institutional capacity for implementing reforms; and (d) lateral
interactions between universities may impact adversely on development of
sustainable partnership and disseminate practices.
Environmental Aspects
11.     The project would have no adverse impact on the environment and therefore
will be a Category C.
Program Objective Categories
12.     Human capital development and institutional building.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 16, 1998.
- 4 -



