                                Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 33720

                   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (SCL-44740 IDA-32130 TF-25682)

                                    ON A

            LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION AND A CREDIT

              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR36.8 MILLION (US$50 MILLION)

                                   TO THE

                        PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                    FOR A

                     HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT




                                 April 5, 2006




HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR UNIT
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION

                                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                  (Exchange Rate Effective December 29, 2005)

                                            Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                                                         Y1 = US$ 0.12
                                                US$ 1.00 = Y8.1

                                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                         JANUARY 1          DECEMBER 31

                                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APR     Annual Progress Report            FDAN    Fudan University                PAD     Project Appraisal Document
BISC    Baotou Iron and Steel College     HIT     Harbin Institute of Technology  PIs     Partner Institutions
BIT     Beijing Institute of Technology   HEAP    Higher Education Advisory Panel PKU     Peking University
BNU     Beijing Normal University         HED     Higher Education Development    PKUHSC  Peking University Health
                                                                                          Science Center
BUAA    Beijing University of Aeronautics HUST    Huazhong Institute of           PPI     Project Performance Indicators
        and Astronautics                          Technology
BUST    Beijing University of Science &   ICR     Implementation Completion       PUs     Project Universities
        Technology                                Report
COU     China Ocean University            ISR     Implementation Status and       SARS    Severe Acute Respiratory
                                                  Results                                 Syndrome
CUMT    China University of Mining and    IDF    Institutional Development Fund   SNNU    Shaanxi Normal University
        Technology
CUST    China University of Science and   ICB     International Competitive       SJTU    Shanghai Jiaotong University
        Technology                                Bidding
CERNET  Chinese Education and Research    JLU     Jilin University                SCU     Sichuan University
        Network
CEP     Chinese Expert Panel              JUT     Jilin University of Technology  SEU     Southeast University
CQU     Chongqing University              LCBPT   Laboratory Center for Basic     TJU     Tianjin University
                                                  Physics Teaching
CAD     Computer-assisted Design          LZU     Lanzhou University              TSING   Tsinghua University
CAI     Computer-assisted Instruction     MIS     Management Information System   USTB    University of Science &
                                                                                          Technology Beijing
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy       MTUC    Mining and Technology           WHU     Wuhan University
                                                  University China
DLUT    Dalian University of Technology   MOE     Ministry of Education           WREP    Work Review and Evaluation
                                                                                          Report
EAP     East Asia and Pacific             M&E     Monitoring & Evaluation         XJTU    Xi`an Jiaotong University
EOP     End of Project                    NJU     Nanjing University              YNU     Yunnan University
FILO    Foreign Investment Loan Office    NKAI    Nankai University               ZJU     Zhejiang University




                                          Vice President:          Jeffrey Gutman (EAPVP)
                                         Country Director          David Dollar (EACCF)
                              Education Sector Manager             Christopher Thomas (EASHD)
                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                   Dingyong Hou (EASHD)

                                              CHINA
                                    Higher Education Reform


                                           CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            18
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 21
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              23
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             39
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             42
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             43
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             45
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                46
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            47
Annex 8. Additional Data on Components 1 and 2                                   49
Annex 9. Partnership Implementation Issues                                       55
Annex 10. Policy-Based Research Studies                                          56
Annex 11. Development of Textbooks and Electronic Materials                      59
Annex 12. Lanzhou University Student Loan Pilot Scheme                           61
Annex 13. List of Project Universities and Partner Institutions                  62

Project ID: P046051                                                  Project Name: Higher Education Reform
Team Leader: Dingyong Hou                                            TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 5, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Higher Education Reform                                  L/C/TF Number: SCL-44740; IDA-32130;
                                                                                                     TF-25682
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (98%); Central government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P); Social analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/10/1998                                     Effective: 09/30/1999                10/06/1999
     Appraisal: 12/15/1998                                         MTR:                             10/21/2002
      Approval: 05/18/1999                                      Closing: 07/31/2005                 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PRC/Ministry of Education
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey Gutman                                 Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                 Christopher Thomas                             Alan Ruby
Team Leader at ICR:             Dingyong Hou                                   Hena G. Mukherjee
ICR Primary Author:             Hon Chan Chai


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective was to improve the quality and relevance of undergraduate basic science and
engineering programs through integrated reform activities in curriculum and teaching methodology. The
project investment, targeted at the first and second year studies, was designed to provide the impetus for
embedding the reforms across all four years of undergraduate science and engineering programs.

Specifically, the project sought to: (a) enable Project Universities (PUs) to improve teaching and learning
through restructuring the curriculum, reduction of narrow specializations, and introduce integrative
interdisciplinary courses; (b) enable the PUs, through a collaborative partnership program, to disseminate
the reforms they developed to their poorer Partner Institutions (PIs); and (c) strengthen institutional
planning and administration and central coordination. The effectiveness of the teaching/learning process
was to be improved by adopting student-centered strategies, and making the laboratories, computer
facilities and library services more readily accessible to students and staff. Annex 13 provides a list of
project universities, their codes, partner institutions, and implementation completion reports, dates and
length. The project universities are identified by their code, as appropriate.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's development objectives were not revised. Adherence to the original objectives was a
reflection of the broad consensus among the PUs on the reform priorities for their institutional development.
The consensus was significant considering the variation in institutional history of the PUs and levels of
socioeconomic development of the eleven provinces and four municipalities in which the PUs were located.
At appraisal, there were three municipalities: Beijing, Tianjin and Shanghai; subsequently Chongqing
became the fourth municipality.


3.3 Original Components:
The project components were designed to meet the project objectives. Clearly defined implementation
responsibilities were shared between the PUs, which would execute project activities at the institutional
level, and the Ministry of Education (MOE)/Foreign Investment Loan Office (FILO) at the central,
overarching level. The MOE/FILO was assisted by the Higher Education Advisory Panel (HEAP, also
referred to as the "Chinese Expert Panel" or CEP) which carried out advisory and oversight functions in
relation to the PUs. Each PU, in turn, had its own mini-FILO and advisory team to assist in the
implementation of institutional project activities.

The three main components supported the improvement of the quality and relevance of undergraduate basic
science and engineering programs by reforming the curriculum, teaching-learning methodology, and the
examination system. All components were judged to: (a) have direct relevance to the project's objectives;
(b) be well within the capabilities of the implementing agencies; and (c) have been designed with the
incorporation of `lessons learned' from previous World Bank (the Bank) projects in China and the East
Asia and Pacific (EAP) Region. The components, as implemented, were as follows:

Component 1: Achieving Improvement in Teaching and Learning (Base Cost: US$84.0 million)


The PUs would restructure the curriculum to provide broader, integrative interdisciplinary courses in
science and engineering, with improved student-centered teaching-learning strategies, more accessible
laboratories and workshops, computer facilities and library services. New equipment would be provided:
(a) to complement the new expanded and modernized physical facilities for first and second year science
and engineering programs; and (b) to establish integrated laboratory centers for new type of laboratory



                                                        - 2 -

experiments which would include open-ended and research-design-oriented projects. The aim was to meet
employers' demand for graduates who, having acquired a broad knowledge base, would be more practical,
creative and skilled in team work.

The component's overall objectives would be achieved through four sub-components:

(a)      Restructuring of Academic Programs through continuous curriculum development to ensure the
relevance of academic programs to modern market demands. Activities would include: (i) improving the
relevance of academic programs and curricula through practical linkages between universities and
employers by means of external and industrial advisory committees and graduate tracer system to gather
feedback from graduates and employers; (ii) supporting continuous curriculum development and
improvement through a feedback process linking inputs from students, graduates and employers and
committees responsible for program-specific curriculum development; and (iii) restructuring of academic
programs by reorganizing and broadening the content of science and engineering programs and
strengthening each subject's fundamental concepts and practical aspects, which would be effected by
reducing the number of specialized courses and the amount of scheduled time in each program to provide
students more time for individual and group learning.

(b)      Reforming Learning Strategies. The above reforms would include support to teaching staff,
evaluation of teaching reforms and dissemination of outcomes to other institutions; and integration of new
equipment with reformed approaches to teaching-learning. The reforms would be achieved through: (i)
adoption of student-centered teaching-learning methods; (ii) improving the quantity, quality and relevance
of laboratory experimental work through improved laboratory equipment, increased student access to
laboratories, and changing the balance between directed, "verifying" and/or repetitive experiments and
open-ended, design-oriented laboratory projects; (iii) ensuring a safe and conducive laboratory environment
through renovated facilities; and (iv) reforming student examinations through more student-centered testing
and evaluation strategies and a flexible course credit system.

(c)      Improving Learning Opportunities and Conditions. This would be achieved by facilitating more
self-directed learning by: (i) improving and updating textbooks and other teaching-learning materials; (ii)
improving the conditions for self-directed learning through reduction of time for traditional lectures and
increase of time for student self- or group-study enabled by open access to laboratories, enhanced computer
facilities, and library resources; and (iii) improving learning-support services through improved
teaching/learning and campus networks linked to Chinese Education and Research Network (CERNET)
and the Internet.

(d)      Upgrading teachers and staff to support the reforms would be achieved by short- and long-term
(local or overseas) training of administrators, teachers and laboratory support staff in higher education
planning and management, and teaching-learning strategies. (For further details on Component 1, see PAD
Report No. 19146-CHA, dated April 14, 1999, Annex 2 pp. 32-36.)

Component 2: Using Partnerships and Networks to Spread Reforms (Base Cost: US$5.3 million)

This component linked the 28 PUs with their less-developed Partner Institutions (PIs) to share the benefits
of project investments in physical and human resource development and to widen the impact of the higher
education reforms initiated in the PUs. This would be achieved by disseminating the curriculum reforms
and academic program and course development and improved teaching-learning strategies in basic science
and engineering courses. The partnership core elements would include: (a) training PI staff in higher
degrees and/or courses in science and engineering content and teaching methods; (b) training and/or



                                                       - 3 -

exchange of students between institutions to participate in teaching-learning programs and generally for the
PI staff and students to use the better equipment and teaching-learning resources of the PUs; (c) sharing
resources, reforms in curricula, teaching-learning methods, good practice in institutional management; and
(d) development and use of electronic teaching-learning materials and routine electronic communication
between teaching staff and students through CERNET and other networks.

Quality improvements in reforms would be monitored by HEAP or CEP. Good performance by PUs would
be rewarded by MOE under five categories of partnership activities: (i) sharing facilities; (ii) staff training;
(iii) joint research and development programs; (iv) technical assistance; and (v) donations (equipment,
software, publications). PU staff would be expected to help their PI counterparts to adopt the new teaching
methods developed under the project. (For further details on Component 2, see PAD Report No.
19146-CHA, dated April 14, 1999, Annex 2 pp. 36-37.)

Component 3: Supporting Institutional Capacity for Change (Base Cost: US$4.3 million)

Aimed at strengthening institutional planning and administration and central coordination, activities under
this component, implemented by MOE, were organized under four main groups.

I.        National-Level Technical Assistance Activities included staff training and study tours with
follow-up dissemination seminars: (a) staff training would focus on project, financial, and procurement
management to ensure effective project implementation; (b) the study tours to various foreign universities
would familiarize senior university staff with current good practices in: (i) reform of institutional
management and implementation of teaching reform (for university presidents); (ii) reform of curricula,
textbooks, teaching methods and the institutional examination system (for directors of teaching affairs); (iii)
improving financial management (for finance division directors); (iv) reform of laboratory management (for
equipment division directors); and (v) reform of laboratory teaching and management (for chiefs of the
experiment centers).

II.       Policy-Based Research Studies on five research themes identified by MOE/HED, in collaboration
with university experts. The themes were: (a) development of a system for quality assessment in higher
education; (b) establishment of a textbook renewal mechanism appropriate for a socialist market economy;
(c) managerial autonomy of institutions under legislation; (d) development of a graduate tracer study; and
(e) comprehensive assessment of financial management in higher education institutions.

III.      Textbooks and Electronic Materials reform and development activities were coordinated by MOE
to ensure adequate dissemination of the most innovative results to all universities in the country. MOE
planned to produce 400 textbooks on 200 basic courses which would include those not covered by the
project, with the aim of spreading the reforms beyond the PUs and PIs. The development of management
software would fall under the overall Management Information System (MIS) development activities of
MOE and the various universities, while the development of teaching software would be associated with
curriculum reform and teaching practice improvement under the project's Component 1.

IV.       Student Loan Pilot Scheme for Lanzhou University, a pilot scheme funded by a US$100,000
PHRD Grant to Lanzhou University, was a study of an alternative student loan scheme. (For further details
on Component 3, see PAD Report No. 19146-CHA, dated April 14, 1999, Annex 2 pp. 37-40.)

3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revised components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not subject to a QAG review or rating at entry.

The ICR rating for quality at entry is satisfactory. The rating is based on the following findings: (a) from



                                                     - 4 -

the beginning, the project was strongly focused on agreed-upon development objectives, and this concensus
remained through the duration of the project; (b) the thrust of the project was closely aligned with the
Borrower's higher education sector development priorities as described in China Higher Education Reform
(June, 1997), an in-depth sub-sectoral analysis jointly conducted by MOE and the Bank; (c) the project
design was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, R98-107 dated May 6, 1998);
and (d) the Borrower clearly considered the project to have been timely, and had shown strong ownership.
It was implemented at a time when the demand for high level scientific and technological workers was at a
critical stage in the nation's economic growth, and the sub-sector could have suffered a development
set-back if the project had not been implemented. The project design was formulated on the basis of a well
researched and documented study (referred to above) and lessons learned from previous higher education
Bank projects in China and the region. The project components were designed to be fully sustainable by
the PUs and MOE. Finally, the cost estimates in the original project design were proven to be reasonably
accurate, with no significant shortfall in local funding of the project.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project was judged to have met and, in many aspects, exceeded its overall development objectives.
This assessment was based on: (a) satisfactory to highly satisfactory project outcomes and outputs
pertaining to all the targeted reforms; (b) strong PU and MOE commitment and participation throughout
the implementation of the project; (c) highly conducive student learning environment in the new laboratory
experiment centers; (d) highly satisfactory graduate employment rates; (e) effective implementation by the
PUs and implementation oversight by MOE/FILO, supported by HEAP; (f) strong indications of PU and PI
satisfaction with the overall implementation of the project and its outcomes; and (g) positive indications of
continued sustainability of project investments. These indications are most apparent when the Borrower
continues to place strong priority on continued improvements in, and dissemination of, higher education
reforms, particularly in laboratory experiment centers, the key to achieving higher levels of
teaching-learning in science and technology. Based on these indicators, the overall outcomes of the project
are rated as satisfactory.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Achieving Improvement in Teaching and Learning

(a)      Restructuring of Academic Programs. This sub-component is rated highly satisfactory.

At the end of the project (EOP), 1,486 majors were reformed and 4,203 courses were updated (126% of the
target of 3,340, MOE/FILO PPI, Tables 2 & 10) including new majors and non-specialized courses for
providing undergraduate students with a broad based and flexible education program through wider range
of choices. Each PU carried out the restructuring according to its needs, guided by the overall objective of
deepening the reform of undergraduate science and engineering curricula, course content and
teaching-learning methods. Nankai University's experience provides an insight to the general approach to
academic program restructuring taken by the PUs. In Nankai (NKAI), whose reform focused on four lab
teaching centers (biology, chemistry, physics and electronics), the restructuring process started with
rationalization of the schools of science, followed by reforming the lab management system by integrating
the teaching lab resources and establishing the basic lab teaching centers according to education objectives,
lab classification and teaching-learning content. The University realized that reforming the experiment
teaching system was inextricably linked to providing quality education for undergraduates. Thus, issues



                                                      - 5 -

were thoroughly examined and debated among teachers and administrators to arrive at a consensus on
institutional and academic objectives and strategies for achieving them (NKAI, ICR).

Infrastructure supporting teaching/learning reforms. A prerequisite for restructuring the academic
programs was the provision of new or renovated lab experiment facilities, up-to-date equipment and
precision instruments, computer/multimedia and library support services. All the PUs improved and/or
expanded these facilities, with the largest lab area increase in Jilin University (JLU), whose lab space was
increased by 264% from 11,365 square meters in 1999 to 29,967 square meters at EOP. Total PU lab
areas increased by 162% from 258,000 square meters in 1999 to 419,000 square meters in 2005 (PPI,
Table 3-a). The 28 PUs (including JUT, which had merged with JLU) had a total of 117 new or
restructured lab experiment centers, averaging 4.2 centers per institution, ranging from six centers (PKU,
TSING, and SCU) to two (USTB). Science centers accounted for the highest proportion (53%), followed
by engineering (36%) and multimedia and language centers making up 11% (Annex 8, Table 1). The
completion reports by each PU provides extensive details of experiment centers and the reformed
teaching/learning they embodied. The new laboratories with modern equipment provided the necessary
support for educational reforms.

The experiment centers became the focal points of the university reforms and provided the platforms for the
implementation of the new approach to teaching-learning science and engineering, which was facilitated by
the installation of new equipment collectively valued at US$57.32 million and RMB264.5 million, and the
acquisition of 97,000 new science and engineering books (increased by 74% from 55,700 in 1999).
Teaching and learning in the experiment centers were supported by 5,539 lab instructors, increased by 31%
from 4,225 in 1999 (PPI, Table 4). The successful establishment and equipping of the lab centers,
language labs, libraries and other learning resource centers had significantly improved the PUs' health and
safety learning environment and broadened the opportunity for students to test their creativity and fulfill
their development potential.

(i)      Improving the relevance of academic programs and curricula. This sub-component is rated highly
satisfactory.

The reformed undergraduate curriculum typically consisted of a combination of required common basic
courses, specialized compulsory courses, optional courses, general education optional courses, and
common optional courses. Within these requirements, students had varying degrees of freedom of choice,
depending on the departments they were enrolled in. The reforms, originally focused on the first and
second year science and engineering programs, had spread to the entire undergraduate curriculum at the
PUs, and through the PUs to their partner institutions. The dissemination of reform ideas had a leavening
influence on the quality of graduates, with beneficial impact on the graduate employment rate, a key
indicator of the relevance of academic programs and curricula. The new skills, developed under the
project, are in high demand locally and globally. The increasing involvement of industry (e.g., participation
in Boards of Trustees established during sector work just before the project) in educational activities and
management at the PUs helped to strengthen the relevance of science and engineering education to the labor
market. This is evidenced (in early 2004) by the establishment of 438 laboratories with industry built
either in the PUs or in university-linked enterprises (FILO draft APR 2004, p. 2). Selected PUs, using a
survey instrument developed by SJTU under the leadership of MOE/FILO, conducted a survey of graduate
employment for three years (details of the graduate tracer study are given in Component 3, below). The
results from ten PUs showed graduate employment rates to be high but with not unexpected variation
between institutions and changes between 1999 and 2005 (Annex 8, Table 2).




                                                      - 6 -

The graduate employment mechanism which linked employers' requirements and the universities'
preparation of students for a socialist market economy had to balance graduates' abilities and expectations
with labor market demands. Generally, local government state enterprises offered lower salaries, while the
new private enterprises, particularly foreign or foreign-linked, offered higher salaries. According to BIT
(ICR p.17), employers were becoming more diverse. Up to the end of the 1990's, BIT graduates were
employed by traditional state enterprises, scientific research institutes, and national departments, but since
the turn of the century, graduates increasingly have been sought by multinational and joint-venture
enterprises. In 2004, about 28% of total BIT graduates were employed by foreign enterprises. In 2005,
foreign companies accounted for one-third of employment units advertising for graduates in BIT. A survey
by HIT in 2004 to gauge the quality of education and training students received showed that those who
graduated in 1998 or earlier and those who graduated in 1999 or later differed markedly (close to 0.1
significance level) in computer competence, hands-on work ability, and organizational and management
ability.

The high enrollment increases from 1999 produced the first sharp increase in output of graduates of 2.12
million in 2003, an increase of 6.5 times over the 1999 output of 322,400. The situation suggested three
main trends: (i) the increase was a response to the changing demands for skills in public sector and fast
expansion of private enterprises; (ii) industrial specialties (e.g., telecommunications, medical technology,
automobile manufacturing) became the preferred majors, and the output of high-quality and broadly trained
graduates was a response to the needs of these sectors; and (iii) a growing number of graduates moving to
post-graduate studies, a direct result of the enriched curricula as well as an increasingly sophisticated labor
market signaling its preference for workers with a post-graduate degree.

(ii)     Supporting continuous curriculum development and improvement. This sub-component is rated
highly satisfactory.

Continuous curriculum development is necessary to improve design and to respond to new technologies in
science and engineering and the changing labor market demands. The increased emphasis within the
reformed programs in the PUs on basic scientific and technological concepts, instead of narrow
specializations, is likely to facilitate continuous updating of curricula. The PUs have institutionalized
various processes for continuous curriculum development and improvement, using feedback from students
and graduates, as well as employers, to sustain the process of reviewing and improving curricula and
related activities. An illustration is provided by the experience of Fudan University, a research-focused
institution, whose major responsibility, like that of other PUs, is to build up undergraduate disciplines that
meet the needs of the 21st century. The University encourages departments and colleges "to boldly
undertake reforms in laboratory curriculum consistent with academic characteristics and the
talent-development needs" (FDAN, ICR, p.6). At the management level, a course credit system
development team, headed by the University President, and four curricular design expert teams,
respectively for humanities, science, medicine, and comprehensive education, were set up to address the
reform of curricular structures. The resultant comprehensive education policy combined all four discipline
areas in the systematic development of advanced student talents (FDAN, ICR, p. 24). For other examples,
see Annex 8, Table 2.

(iii)    Restructuring of academic programs. This sub-component is rated highly satisfactory.

Historically, science faculties in China's universities evolved from physics and chemistry laboratories
affiliated to basic (teaching) faculties. The specialty faculties only conducted research, while the basic
faculties only conducted teaching. Thus, the arbitrary division between research and teaching adversely
affected the improvement of teachers' competency and the improvement of basic teaching quality (USTB,


                                                       - 7 -

ICR Part 2, Reports by the Experimental Centers, p. 6). The project reform objective was achieved
through the integration of basic teaching and research, reflected in the administrative integration of
experiment labs. In turn, the restructured academic programs were reflected in the PUs' increased
allocation of laboratory time to students who were free to choose their experiments (see (b) Reforming
Learning Strategies, below). During the project period, student use of the lab centers totalled 30.88
million person-hours per year, 27% higher than the plan to provide 24.30 million person-hours. Parallel to
student use was the total lab openning hours per week increased from the average of 40 hours to 80 hours.
The experiment centers served about 462,000 students, about 29% more than the planned 356,000
students. The above statistics (PPI, Table 3-b) reflect the opportunities accorded to students to do their
experiments at their own convenience as part of the restructured academic programs.

The foundation for the restructured academic programs was provided by the renewed/updated lab
experiments for basic science and engineering courses, of which the PUs in 2005 had achieved a total of
7,779 (65.3%) of the 11,906 total lab experiments. The experiment centers served 3,368 majors, 115%
more than the planned 3,021 to be served (for further details, see MOE/FILO PPIs for PUs, Table 3-a).

(b)      Reforming Learning Strategies. This sub-component is rated satisfactory.

To achieve the reforms in learning strategies, special emphasis was placed on raising the number and
quality of academic staff. At the end of the project, the PUs had a total of 23,556 teachers with a Master's
degree, and 21,556 with a doctoral degree, 40.2% and 36.8% respectively of the total of 58,585 full-time
(FT) teachers. In 2005, the student enrollment was 867,142, giving a student-faculty ratio of 15:1 (PPI,
Table 1). (At appraisal, the corresponding ratio was 11:1; thus, the situation in 2005 suggested an
improvement in staff utilization, implying increased efficiency.)

The academic staff training achieved mixed results. About half of the PUs aimed to attain at least 50%
teachers with a Master's degree, but in actuality, only four (14%) of the PUs reached that target on project
completion. By contrast, 20 (74%) of the PUs reached or surpassed their targets for staff with a doctoral
degree. At EOP, the overall picture showed the majority of PUs did not reach their targets for teachers
with Master's degree or doctorates. This shortfall, however, was compensated by a 36% improvement in
the average student-full-time teacher ratio (see "Trained Teachers" below). Details of the results from
selected universities are given in Annex 8, Table 3.

Apparently, one reason that caused the PUs to underachieve the targeted number of higher degree faculty
was due to the fact that staff aged 45 or older were ineligible for higher degree training. Nevertheless, the
project's staff development program was a catalyst for many PUs to establish their own program for
training younger staff. For example, to raise teaching standards, Wuhan University (WHU, ICR p.18), like
many universities in China, required young teachers to undergo pre-job training, two rounds of teaching
assistance, teaching preparation, and trial teaching before they started independent teaching. Both young
and mid-career teachers were encouraged to study for a Master's or doctoral degree, with the employing
university subsidizing the tuition fees or providing support for overseas studies. Significantly, the training
included an introduction to educational theories and modern educational technologies. All the above
indicate an enlightened policy far in advance of many foreign higher education institutions where teaching
staff are seldom required to have any training in pedagogy.

All the PUs embraced the student-centered teaching/learning strategy. The reduction in the lecture mode of
teaching, which had no reported negative effects, provided students more time for individual laboratory
work, team activities and, most important of all, for individual thinking and reflection. Examination
reforms reduced the demands of the past for extensive memorization. Traditional "cook-book" lab


                                                     - 8 -

activities wherein students were required to follow prescribed experiments to verify known results have
mostly been abolished and replaced by experiments of greater scientific interest and learning value. They
give students more individual responsibility, require higher-level reflection and challenge their innovative
skills. In BUAA, for example, the updated physics lab experiment courses and the re-grouped chemistry
courses were matched by a reduction of lab "verification" experiments and a corresponding increase in
activities designed to focus on developing students' creative thinking and innovative abilities (BUAA, ICR
p. 4). Most courses in PUs provided for peer evaluation of staff teaching effectiveness as well as student
evaluation of their teachers' instructional competence. Good practices in teaching/learning were shared
with other institutions through seminars and workshops, and through the university partnership program.

Updated Courses. The target total for the PUs was 3,340 updated courses by EOP, with an average of 124
courses per PU to be updated. The actual achievement was 4,203 or 126% of the target, with an average
of 157 courses updated per PU. With the exception of JLU and SCU, all the PUs exceeded 100% of their
targets. Among the highest achievers were MTUC (204 updated courses, 334% of its target), NJU (250
updated courses, 333% of its target), and TJU (141 updated courses, 282% of its target). (MOE/FILO
ICR, PPI Table 2).

Courses with Reformed Examinations. The main thrust of reformed examinations was to replace the
traditional written examination with multiple modes of testing and evaluation of student learning
achievement. The reformed examinations focused on students' creativity, independence, scientific thinking,
team work ability, skill in gathering information from the Internet and library, and overall capacity to learn.
The PUs planned to produce 7,861 examination-reformed courses. The actual achievement was 9,434
(120% of the target). LZU with 1,560 (137% of target) had the highest number, followed by SEU, with
1,300 (130% of target). The lowest number 20 from PKUHSC was, however, 100% of target. Overall,
the PUs achieved 120% of the target for reforming examinations of basic courses, ranging from 67% (JLU
and SNNU) to 312% (NJU) and 304% (MTUC). In the case of JLU, the original target of 300 courses
was for JLU and JUT (the latter having merged with JLU in 2000), and the actual score of 200
examination-reformed courses was a substantial achievement. All the above reflect the PUs' highly
satisfactory achievement in improving the conditions for more progressive teaching/learning strategies.
Details of updated courses and courses with reformed examinations in selected universities are shown in
Annex 8, Table 4.

(c)      Improving Learning Opportunities and Conditions. This sub-component is rated highly
satisfactory.

The PUs reached or surpassed their targets for improving the learning conditions and opportunities, as
demonstrated by the number of updated/developed textbooks, library open-shelf books, and annual library
borrowed volumes (details shown in Annex 8, Table 5). These were in addition to the numerous computer,
language and multimedia centers established and/or extended by the PUs. The above-mentioned courses
with reformed examinations, as an outcome, produced other outcomes in the form of new courses to meet
the objectives of the reformed examinations. An example is CUMT's establishment of a course on
creativity aimed at enabling students to master the general principles and methods of developing creativity
and innovation (MOE/FILO ICR, p. 68).

Fudan University's experience provides an example of improved learning opportunities and the widening
range of innovative approaches to student-centered learning. The University's Laboratory Center for Basic
Physics Teaching (LCBPT) initiated a succession of distinctive experiment programs, such as "Experiment
Gardens," "Self-Taught Experiment," and "Open Experiment," designed to stimulate students' higher-level
thinking and motivate their creativity. The Experiment Garden is a "zero-credit" study site which has no


                                                     - 9 -

access time restriction and offers free entry to first and second year students to try out their favorite
experiments (FDAN, ICR p.10).

Updated Textbooks. The project achievement was 6,827 textbooks updated or developed, 157% of the
target 4,331. All the PUs reached or exceeded their targets, except JLU which produced 139 (75% of its
target of 185) updated textbooks. Six universities (BUAA, BNU, HUST, NJU, SNNU, SJTU, TJU)
achieved over 200% of their targets (for details, see Annex 8, Table 5).

Access to Library Resources. Along with increased service hour of the libraries, the old practice to lock
up books and journals in the closed section of the library was abolished. Now twenty-three (85%) of the
PUs had at least 50% of their books on open shelves for students to access these resources more easily.
The achievements, in percentages, ranged from 100% for seven universities (BUAA, PKUHSC, SEU,
LZU, SJTU, XJTU, MTUC) to 37% (BNU). A commendable case was HIT, which set a modest target of
15%, but actually achieved 78% open-shelf books.

Library Books Borrowed. Twenty-three (85%) of the PUs reached or exceeded their targets for annual
number of borrowed books. Seventeen (63%) of the PUs achieved 50% and higher of book borrowings,
and six (22%) PUs had 30-49% borrowings (see Annex 8, Table 5 for details). While the above indicators
are important measures of the relative openness of PUs and their accessibility to learning resources for
students, their importance should be viewed in conjunction with other factors, such as the availability of
reading rooms and carrels in the libraries and colleges that may have reduced the need for open-shelf or
take-away books. Many PUs, such as Lanzhou University with nearly 72,000 square meter of library floor
space and 39 reading rooms ­ the largest library in northwest China ­ had greatly expanded their library
facilities.

In addition to the above library-based reforms and establishment of computer and multimedia centers, most
PUs had developed their own campus intranet with access to CERNET and the Internet so that students had
access to virtually all the available websites for their online research. All the above facilities and services
testify to the improving conditions and opportunities in the PUs that are conducive to self-directed student
learning.

Laboratory Safety and Environmental Standards. By the end of the project, all PUs had achieved 100% of
their lab safety and environmental standards (PPI, Table 3-a). Many PUs were initially skeptical about the
need for strict standards, but the project's focused attention to this issue helped change the attitude of the
skeptics. By mid-term the PUs had reached 90% compliance in the new labs which established
international safety and environmental standards. These standards provide the benchmark for students'
practice and behavior after graduation when they might be responsible for handling large quantities of toxic
materials in factories and industrial laboratories. It is noted that they might also disseminate these lab
safety and environmental good practices in their workplaces.

(d)      Upgrading Teachers and Staff to Support the Reforms. This sub-component is rated satisfactory.

At project completion, 26,430 teachers (under various long- and short-term, in-job and off-job training
programs), 4,472 laboratory staff and 2,517 library management staff had received training to upgrade
their professional qualifications (PPI, Table 8).

Trained Teachers. In 2005, there were 21,745 teachers in all the PUs teaching undergraduate Year 1 and
Year 2 courses. The majority (88%) of PUs reached or surpassed their targets for the teachers to be
trained. The actual achievements ranged from 170% (SEU) to 23% (SJTU) of the planned numbers. The


                                                       - 10 -

PUs had 14,055 trained teachers, representing 64.6% of staff teaching Year 1 and Year 2 courses (Annex
8, Table 6 and PPI, Table 2). The increase in the proportion of trained teachers to that of at the beginning
of the project was indicative of the higher quality academic staff, which in turn would translate into
improved quality of teaching/learning in the classrooms and experiment laboratories. The above
achievements in updated courses and teaching-learning methods, and courses with reformed examination
methods provided the teachers with the academic content and learning-assessment tools to continuously
raise the quality of teaching-learning.

Another aspect of support for reforms is the ratio of students to full-time teachers. In 2005, the PUs had a
total enrollment of 867,142 students and 57,585 full-time (FT) teachers, giving an average student-FT
teacher ratio of 15:1, a 36% improvement over the average PU ratio of 11:1 at appraisal. This should
result in lower per-student costs and therefore overall system efficiency. Technology programs, which are
apt to use more CAI tools for basic instruction, tend to have higher ratios (e.g., Dalian), while medical
training would have lower ratios (e.g., PKUHSC). The ratios of students to full-time teachers ranged from
21:1 (DLUT) and 20:1 (COU), to 8:1 (XJTU) and 5:1 (PKUHSC). Annex 8, Table 7 provides further
details.

Component 2: Using Partnerships and Networks to Spread Reforms

This component aimed at spreading reforms through partnerships and networks is rated satisfactory. The
reforms carried out by the PUs were spread in various ways to the Partner Institutions (PIs), and through
them to many local tertiary institutions. The partnership program contributed to the "Chinese Great
Western Development Strategy," strengthening the ties and balancing higher education development
between the interior underdeveloped regions and the coastal developed urban centers. The cooperative
activities' spin-off effects included stimulating the development of teacher education, education of
minorities, private education, as well as distance education (MOE/FILO, 2004 draft APR, p. 5).

Implementation, however, was uneven because the planning and coordination of project activities varied
among the PUs and their partner institutions. According to the plan, each PU was to allocate 15% of their
counterpart funds to the partnership program. The total planned budget was RMB37.47 million, averaging
RMB1.34 million per PI (excluding LZH, which had a planned budget of RMB1.82 million and four PIs,
so that the average per PI was RMB0.46 million). The actual expenditure was RMB37.79 million,
averaging RMB 1.48 million per PI. Most PUs carried out their planned activities, but actual expenditure
varied widely among the PUs, ranging from 146.6% for PKU to 10.9% for WHU. About 75% of PUs
reached or exceeded their planned expenditure. One PU had no information on their expenditure, and five
PUs (18%) fell short of their planned expenditure (Annex 8, Table 8 provides details). The expenditure
variation was evidenced by non-allocation for books, software and other items among many partnerships,
while the largest allocation was for equipment, which accounted for 64% of the total value of materials
donated to PIs. The PIs were handicapped by lack of access to project financing and by being dependent
entirely on whatever development funds were available.

The partnership program suffered from a slow start caused partly by the PUs being more concerned
initially about implementing their own institutional project activities. Poor communication between
partners, described by the Chinese Expert Panel as the program's "weak link," PU personnel transfers, and
arbitrary alteration of partnership program plans hampered implementation. Differences in the level of
institutional development and differing orientations of staff and students made it difficult for various
partners to work together smoothly. In some cases, distance between PUs and PIs made it impracticable to
implement certain cooperative activities, such as opening library and lab center facilities to PI staff and
students.



                                                      - 11 -

Notwithstanding these implementation problems, which tested the ability of the PUs to adjust and adapt to
difficult partnership conditions, the partnership program achieved its main and most important objective:
enabling the weaker PIs to adopt and incorporate into their undergraduate programs the new
teaching/learning methods developed and shared by the stronger PUs. This is illustrated by the fruitful
cooperation between the universities of Fudan and Yunnan in designing and developing Yunnan
University's Department of Electronic Science and Engineering, upgrading its equipment, updating the lab
experiment courses, course content, and reforming teaching methodology (FDAN ICR, pp. 28-34); USTB
and Baotou Iron and Steel College in improving reforms in course content and teaching methods, and
management of teaching, library and laboratory services (USTB ICR, pp. 17-21); Nankai and Yunnan
Normal in working methods of science lab construction, lab teaching content, methods, and textbooks, and
staff development (NKAI ICR, pp. 26-28); and USTC and Anhui Normal in restructuring the latter's
laboratory system, establishing a course credit system, and assisting in staff higher degree training (USTC
ICR pp. 50-53). These partnership activities testify to the realization of the outcomes of the benefits of
higher education reforms. (Further details are provided in Annex 9, "Partnership Program Implementation
Issues.")

(a)      Higher degree training for staff. This sub-component is rated satisfactory.

Higher degree training for PI staff was part of the broader program of staff development. It facilitated the
process of merging small specialty institutions to establish broad-based universities that could offer more
comprehensive academic and professional programs through a more broadly and well trained faculty base.
The staff training program was a major factor in contributing to the spreading of reforms as trained staff
were the effective instruments of change and innovation. A total of 499 PI staff were trained in degree
programs. The numbers varied widely among institutions, from 81 (HIT and Heilongjiang College of
Science and Technology); 75 (TSING and Yunnan University of Industry); and 66 (SEU and Yancheng
Engineering College), to zero (BUAA and Guizhou Industry University, and FDAN and Yunnan
University). Non-degree training yielded 604 staff, and 1,071 teachers were trained under a short-term
program (Annex 8, Table 9). With the spread of teaching reforms, many teachers began to feel the need to
update their academic and professional qualifications, thus creating the demand for higher degree training,
which in time would lead to higher quality undergraduate education and training.

(b)      Training and/or exchange of students. This sub-component is rated satisfactory.

Under this scheme, 42,317 PI students were beneficiaries in various short-term, non-graduating programs
in the host PUs where they participated in lab experiments and related courses. The largest numbers were
hosted by Southeast University, which received 15,000 students from Xichang Agricultural College, and
China University of Mining and Technology which took in 21,658 students from Xuzhou Vocational
University (Annex 8, Table 9). An example of particular good practice, Wuhan University supported 30
students from Yunyang Teachers' College in Hubei Province by placing them in Wuhan's 3rd Year
bachelor's degree programs so that they graduated after two years' studies.

(c)      Sharing resources. This sub-component is rated satisfactory.

The quantitative aspect of "sharing" comprised mainly donations by PUs to their partners valued at
RMB42.32 million. All PUs and partners participated in the sharing of resources. The largest item
"shared" in terms of value was equipment which was valued at RMB18.4 million. The largest donation
valued at RMB3.11 million was from Peking University to Inner Mongolia University, followed by Fudan
University whose equipment donation to Yunnan University was valued at RMB1.23 million. Other items


                                                     - 12 -

included books (RMB1.19 million); software (RMB2.92 million); and "others" (RMB6.15 million). In
Annex 8, Table 8, the qualitative aspects, by far the most important outcomes of the partnership program,
covered the key reforms described in the preceding sections of this ICR.

(d)      Development and use of electronic teaching/learning materials. This sub-component is rated
satisfactory.

A number of updated courses and updated textbook titles were developed under two distinct activities:
through cooperation and through the efforts of PIs. Under the partnership program, 2,284 updated courses
were produced; and under PIs' own efforts, 259 courses. Regarding updated textbooks, the partnership
program produced 1,937 titles, and PIs on their own produced 186 titles (Annex 8, Table 9).

Outcomes

Although achievements across the PIs were uneven, the expected outcome of Component 2 was achieved.
The achievements included the transfer by the PUs and the adoption by the PIs of the reforms in
curriculum, textbooks and other teaching/learning materials; student-centered teaching/learning
methodologies; methods of testing and evaluation of student learning achievement; management of lab
experiment centers; and staff development programs.

The partnerships deepened the substance and strengthened the traditional "hand-in-hand" inter-institutional
program. The initial collaboration, covering relatively easy to implement activities, such as training
teachers, staff and student exchange, provision and sharing of material resources and experience of best
practices, etc., evolved, toward the EOP implementation, to joint efforts to improve the quality of
undergraduate courses and develop institutional capacity for quality assessment. The change came from
the need to transcend the simple transfer of equipment and learning materials, and from a shared concern
for ensuring the achievement of high value-added education. Practically every PU ICR testified to the
transfer of new ways to organize and manage the lab experiment centers and of the reformed
teaching/learning methods used in lab experiments. The transfer of teaching technology, representing a
revolutionary change of educational philosophy and practice, was the most fruitful outcome of the
cooperative relationship which both the PIs and the PUs strongly wished to maintain and further develop.

The benefits generated by the PUs spread to other departments within the PIs, as well as to other colleges
and universities. The partnership program convinced the CEP that the strategy initiated by the project was
the key to accelerating the development of universities in China's remote areas (CEP, WREP, p. 21). The
benefits served as a catalyst for gradually changing narrowly-focused institutions, such as Heilongjiang
Mineralogy College, Guizhou Industry University, and Baotou Iron and Steel College, into more
comprehensive universities capable of meeting the needs of the 21st century. The overall rating for
Component 2 is satisfactory.

Component 3. Supporting Institutional Capacity for Change

All the project activities were implemented as planned. The overall rating for this component is
satisfactory. Summaries of the outputs/outcomes of this component are entered in Annex 1 (Key
Performance Indicators/Logframe Reference). The following paragraphs provide detail on this
component's achievements.

I.       National-level Technical Assistance Activities. This sub-component is rated as satisfactory.

(a)      Project Management Training. The initial training in 1999 of 112 staff responsible for overall


                                                    - 13 -

project management ensured the smooth implementation of activities that required an early head-start, such
as equipment procurement and financial planning, apart from the day-to-day administration of the project.
Between May 2000 and December 2002, MOE and HED conducted seven follow-up training sessions for
364 staff to reinforce the management skills dealt with in the initial training. Training sessions were held in
Beijing, Dalian, Nanjin, Chongqing and Guilin. As of June, 2004, the total training outputs included 84
staff trained in project management, 56 in financial management, and 336 in equipment procurement
management. However, since the last training session in December 2002, FILO reported a total of 550
staff had been trained as of July 2005, but there was no details provided on the training content for the
additional 74 staff who received training after June 2004 (MOE/FILO ICR, p. 42).

(b)      Domestic Training. This was accomplish through study-tours of universities in China, including
Hong Kong. They focused on experiment-based teaching-learning in science and engineering laboratories,
including the design and operation of such laboratories. In addition, the multimedia teaching-learning
centers established in the PUs were used for upgrading the pedagogical skills of teaching staff. These
included basic IT knowledge on Internet access, web- page designing and development, the relevant
technologies related to computer usage in teaching and general communication, laboratory and staff
management, facilities use and maintenance.

(c)      Overseas Study Tours. MOE/FILO implemented 21 study tours in key thematic areas specially
related to the project for PU administrative and academic staff. The tours were followed up by
dissemination seminars to share information and new ideas gained from overseas institutions. A total of
210 (versus the planned 217) staff participated in the study tours to Europe, North America, Australia,
Malaysia and Singapore. The participants comprised 29 university presidents, 89 division directors and 92
laboratory experiment center chiefs. The participants studied institutional, teaching and financial
management; science laboratory development and management; and multimedia/language laboratory
teaching and management. The tours helped to deepen understanding of the advances achieved by
international universities in the content and methods of teaching/learning science and technology, and to
reinforce the growing conviction that the reforms were vitally important to the further development of
China's universities and their contribution to the growth in China of the knowledge economy.

(d)      Dissemination Seminars. A total of 12 seminars of 5-6 days duration each were held between
August 2003 and July 2005 in various provincial cities. They involved 1,764 PU participants that
included university presidents, division directors, and lab and equipment directors, as well as 207 personnel
from 98 other (non-project, non-partner) universities. The seminar topics were related to project and
institutional management, and science and engineering lab development and management. The 64 national
and three international specialists conducted the seminars. A final seminar, focusing on "Teaching Reform
Achievements" was held in Xinjiang during July 4-8, 2005.

II.      Policy-based Research Studies. This sub-component is rated as satisfactory.

All the research studies on thematic areas, which were identified by MOE at appraisal as having a special
bearing on higher education policy formulation, were completed. The reports, in Chinese, including
executive summaries in English for four of them, were on the following topics: (a) development of a
system for quality assessment in higher education entitled "Research on Chinese Higher Education
Evaluation"; (b) establishment of a textbook-renewal mechanism appropriate for a socialist market
economy, with an English summary report entitled "Teaching Material Renovation Mechanism under
Condition of Socialist Market Economy"; (c) managerial autonomy of higher education institutions (no
English summary report); (d) development of a graduate tracer study (English summary report entitled
"University Graduates' Information Tracking and Investigating System"; and (e) comprehensive assessment
of financial management in higher education institutions (English summary report entitled "A Report of the


                                                     - 14 -

Study on the Comprehensive Assessment of College Finance".) The following is a summary of the reports,
details of which are given in Annex 10.

Developing a System for Quality Assessment

The study produced five sub-reports on various aspects of quality assurance. The study outcomes
included: (a) the implementation of a five-year evaluation cycle, using 7 primary and 18 secondary key
indicators and 38 "observation points" to monitor and evaluate three key aspects of higher education
(operating conditions, the educational process, and institutional efficiency); (b) establishment of data
collection system on undergraduate programs and an evaluation agency under MOE; and (c) development
of a cadre of evaluation experts and a task force for future work.

Establishment of a Textbook Renewal Mechanism

The study contained three parts: (i) the textbook renewal mechanism; (ii) textbook development/reforms
under the 10th Five-Year Plan; and (iii) an evaluation system for higher education textbooks. There were
five recommendations focusing on: (a) strengthening the role of publishers; (b) increasing textbook choice;
(c) introduction of competitive bidding for textbook development; (d) establishing indicators for quality
assurance; and (e) developing electronic materials to diversify textbook provision. The recommendations
were adopted by MOE for systemwide implementation.

Managerial Autonomy of Higher Education Institutions

In a three-phase study, the first phase involved designing a framework for higher education institutional
reforms which was piloted in the universities. The second phase, involving the introduction of reforms in
2000, showed that institutional autonomy required a major system restructuring. The actual study was
carried out in the third phase which was completed in mid-2003 and the draft report reviewed in mid-2004.
The issues identified in the study included: (i) the legacy of public ownership of higher education
institutions and its attendant problems; (ii) the need to promote institutional autonomy; (iii) the need for
institutional reforms to be implemented within the framework of political reform; and (iv) potential
obstacles to reforms. Two key recommendations were to privatize some of the public higher education
institutions, and restructure resource allocation to give institutions greater autonomy.

Graduate Tracer Study

The study, developed by Shanghai Jiaotong University and tested in all project institutions, generated a
questionnaire and a software for tracking student. By early 2004, the study had: (i) completed a survey of
graduate employment, including employer information; (ii) identified/formalized key indicators; and (iii)
developed the software for the survey of graduates and employers. The study was completed in July 2004.
The results of the evaluation that followed the study were integrated into the present evaluation system.
While no formal report was issued, several PUs reported results from their own surveys. The findings of
two PUs have been cited in the ICR text (para. 4.2 (a) (i) ). Additional information was provided by
HUST, ICR pp. 26; HIT, ICR pp. 23-24. For further details, see MOE/FILO ICR, Annex 4.

Assessment of Higher Education Financial Management

The study was completed in 2003. The findings confirmed the suitability of the existing financial
management system for the current reforms. The software for the study, developed for use by higher
education institutions, contained 38 key indicators divided into three groups to monitor and evaluate
financial management. The key indicators dealt with: (i) total income of the system to be measured; (ii)
operational efficiency (e.g., teacher-student ratios, expenditure on equipment per student and for faculty



                                                      - 15 -

research, etc.); and (iii) risks, such as loans/borrowings by institutions, year-end balances, expenditure
versus income, fixed assets versus liabilities, etc. Following a trial run, the software was being used by 76
higher education institutions under MOE.


III.     Textbooks and Electronic Materials. This sub-component is rated as highly satisfactory.

The target was to produce 400 textbooks on 200 basic courses through a cooperative effort between the
PUs and MOE/HED which produced the guidelines for the innovative approach of having the universities
bid for contracts on a competitive basis. A 120 expert-member review panel approved 333 proposals from
170 institutions from 31 provinces, regions and municipalities. Significantly, 22% of the successful bids
came from "disadvantaged" universities in poorer areas. Under MOE's leadership, the PUs were successful
in developing and implementing new curricula, textbooks, teaching-learning methods for undergraduate
core foundation, compulsory and elective courses, supported by a variety of multimedia software. At EOP,
4,203 key courses had been updated and 6,827 textbooks renewed or developed, approximately 126% and
157%, respectively, of the targets. At the same time, there were 9,434 examination-reformed courses,
120% of the project target. (For details, see Annex 1, key performance indicators under Component 1;
Annex 8 Tables 4 and 5; and MOE/FILO PPI, Table 2).

Management Information System (MIS) Development

At the outset of project implementation, MOE/FILO established a MIS to support its overall project
coordination responsibilities. Several factors contributed to the development and application of the system:
(i) the project universities' management; (ii) the development of IT; (iii) the heavy burden of daily routine
work for information dissemination; and (iv) the urgent need for communication among project
stakeholders. Management staff of PUs could access the project website email box with the given user
name and password, while an email link was established between MOE/FILO and PUs. All data
transmission, collection and processing were done through computers. Regular visits to the project website
became a part of the PU FILO's work which strengthened communication between the PUs and
MOE/FILO. The project website, as an information-sharing and multi-channel communication platform,
was an indispensable tool for project management and coordination (MOE/FILO 2004 draft APR, p. 9).

The Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) crisis presented an unexpected opportunity for the MIS
to demonstrate its efficacy as a information-sharing and communication support system. MOE/FILO and
the PU leaders responded to the crisis by: (a) creating off-site and online communication to maintain
inter-university contact; (b) quickly establishing, in cooperation with CERNET, a public distance education
platform that was rapidly expanded with courseware by PUs; (c) using video-conferencing for institutional
administration and academic exchanges; and (d) exchanging project information and progress reports
through the website created by the MIS (see para. 5.1, below).




                                                      - 16 -

Outcomes

Under Component 3, the domestic training and overseas study tours, together with the dissemination
seminars, were crucial to the reform process because they primed the senior university officials for the
leadership roles they would play in implementing all the key aspects of the reforms. Seeing for themselves
how undergraduate science and engineering programs were conducted in the "world class" universities
provided the university leaders with a vision of what China's higher education institutions could achieve
and needed to achieve. All the project universities have institutionalized the principles of student-centered
teaching-learning methodologies; students' choice of courses within academic programs; and adoption of a
range of flexible methods of assessing student learning achievement through team as well as individual
projects, written assignments, standard closed-book and open-book tests/examinations, etc. The reformed
curricula emphasize stimulating students' creativity and innovative abilities. Science and engineering
laboratories are open for students' use after regular scheduled sessions, subject to first-come, first-serve
advance bookings through their teachers. Reforms in curricula and instructional methods have led to the
institutionalization of regular skill upgrading and professional training for administrative, technical and
academic staff.


Key outcome indicators of the reforms may be seen in the national as well as university presidential prizes
awarded to numerous student papers for their excellence, to staff for their distinction in teaching, and to
institutions for establishing excellent laboratory centers as well as developing excellent innovative basic
undergraduate courses. For example, Nankai University's four lab centers won the first ever title
"Excellent Teaching Labs" in Tianjin Municipality, and in Peking University, four teachers cited for their
excellence were recognized as "National Excellent Teachers" in 2003. Similar awards were conferred upon
several universities. The logical outcome of excellence in teaching is student learning achievements.
Nankai University provided the example of one of its students, Zhang Lei, of the Chemistry College
winning a special innovation award for his article Luminous Zinc Nanometer Molecule in the 7th National
Challenge Cup for College Student Scientific Works in 2001. The only undergraduate to receive the
award, Zhang Lei subsequently had five articles accepted for publication by international journals (NKAI
ICR, p. 18).

An important outcome with potential long-term impact is the development of multimedia teaching-learning
through the establishment in the majority of project universities of multimedia centers which are used for
professional staff training and for extracurricular courses for students. The multimedia-based teaching has
not only significantly reduced the conventional instructional time, but also effectively promotes
student-centered learning in which students have relatively more time to study and carry out research on
their own. A potentially far-reaching outcome is the introduction of courses in English or bilingual
(Chinese/English), as an important first-step towards increasing the internationalization of Chinese higher
education. An expanding number of universities offer bilingual (English-Chinese) courses in science and
engineering. Indeed, in some universities, selected science courses are specifically taught in English to
reinforce students proficiency in the language and to familiarize them to the scientific concepts and
terminologies in English. Many of the students that the Bank mission team met in discussion sessions in
CUST, XJTU, TJU, DLUT, and JLU said they regularly used the Internet to access science and technology
information worldwide -- an indication of their English proficiency -- a foundation for their lifelong
learning. An impressive number were able to discuss in English their learning experience under their
respective universities' reformed academic programs and to express their evaluation of the efficacy of the
reformed methods of teaching and assessment of student learning. Discussions with students in NJU, SEU,
FDAN, SJTU, PKU and TSING confirmed the earlier mission findings that the university reforms in
science and engineering curricula, teaching-learning methods, and use of the equipment-updated



                                                     - 17 -

laboratories and workshops for students' practical experiments had significantly improved the learning
environment and increased student learning achievement.

IV.      Student Loan Pilot Scheme. This sub-component is rated as marginally satisfactory.

This sub-component was tangential to the main thrust of the project. The scheme was designed specifically
for students to repay their loans aftergraduation when they were employed. One of the assumed, but not
explicitly articulated outcomes was the adoption by Lanzhou University of an official policy to allow
students who borrow money to finance their education to repay their loans aftergraduation. Evidently,
there was no change to the prevailing policy of requiring students to repay the loan beforegraduation. The
loan fund (a PHRD grant of US$100,000 equivalent to approximately RMB830,000) provided by the pilot
project was quickly taken up by Lanzhou University students. The majority of borrowers -- about 77% --
were students from rural areas and presumably much poorer than others, repaid their loans before
graduation. One specific lesson learned from this pilot is that such institution based pilot is not likely to
succeed in achieving the designed policy objective without adddressing the broader policy framework at the
system level. The prevailing policy environment during the project that did not embrace the transition
toward an income contingent scheme limited the experimental value of such pilot.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project was substantial. The construction of new or renovation
of existing lab experiment centers provided the physical infrastructure for the reforms in the teaching and
learning of science and engineering that underpinned the institutional development of the PUs as well as the
PIs. The institutional development impact was evidenced by the following project outcomes: (a) the
restructured academic programs that integrated basic teaching and research; (b) the administrative
reorganization of the previously fragmented labs into a modern integrated system of experiment labs that
facilitates cross-discipline teaching and learning; (c) the institutionalization of the credit system, providing
students a flexible choice of majors and multiple modes of assessing student learning achievement; (d) the
practice of a student-centered teaching/learning methodology and an open-access policy for lab experiment
centers to encourage students to carry out experiments that could test their creativity and innovative ability;
(e) the establishment by MOE of a quality assessment system; (f) the adoption of a graduate employment
mechanism linking employers' requirements and the university undergraduate programs through a feedback
system that strengthened the relevance of academic programs to market demands; (g) the establishment of a
system of continuous curriculum development, including updating or creating new courses and related
examinations, and renewal and development of textbooks and other teaching/learning materials; and (h) the
institutionalization of the partnership program with multiplier effects on the reforms undertaken by the
PUs.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The sudden outbreak of SARS in Guangdong Province in March 2003 was a major factor that had a
negative impact, but fortunately no long-term effect on the project (PSR #9, archived June 5, 2003, and
PSR #10, archived December 11, 2003). During the initial period of the crisis, the travel ban severely
limited communication among PUs and especially among those in Beijing, and forced the shut-down of



                                                      - 18 -

PUs' regular operations in other SARS-infected provinces. These events temporarily slowed down certain
implementation activities, mainly information dissemination and exchange visits between institutions. The
crisis, however, produced unexpected outcomes that demonstrated the creative resilience of the PU leaders
whose response to the challenge included the following activities: (a) the creation of off-site and online
communication to maintain inter-university contact; (b) the quick establishment of a public distance
education platform by CERNET that was rapidly expanded with courseware by PUs open to the public; (c)
video-conference technology was used for institutional administration and academic exchanges; and (d)
PUs exchanged project information and progress reports through the website created by MOE/FILO's MIS.
As the threat of SARS retreated, mobile tutoring teams were established and more flexible course schedules
were developed to maintain the running of courses and cater to students' learning needs. SARS also had a
negative impact on the project's counterpart funding due to the fact that the crisis forced many PUs to use
their resources to contain the disease while continuing the teaching/learning process through augmented
distance education technologies that also incurred extra expenses.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
One of the overseas study tours, as one of the MOE-FILO centrally-organized activities, was delayed by
visa problems. Apart from this minor delay, the overseas study tours and dissemination seminars were
effectively implemented by FILO's technical assistance department, and institutional project implementation
was monitored and guided by the CEP. The centralized equipment procurement procedure, at least under
the first ICB, resulted in many PUs receiving poor quality equipment or instruments that did not match
their requirements. Some PUs reported unsatisfactory or totally non-existent after-sales service;
unsatisfactory or no replacement of defective equipment; and poor quality of locally-manufactured
equipment purchased on the basis of lower price, but was not cost-effective for lab teaching/learning
purposes. Xian Jiaotong University, for example, was of the opinion that there were "many flaws" in the
national public bidding for equipment because "a remarkable number of equipment" did not fit the
requirements and specifications of the experiment labs. The equipment list under this procurement method
was too limited. With reforms deepening and the need for increasingly more sophisticated equipment,
adjustments were needed for large-scale equipment procurement (XJTU, ICR pp. 21-22). These problems
were addressed in the second and third ICBs.

In staff development, several PUs fell short of their targets for teachers with Master's degree and
doctorates, because they were unwilling to release staff for higher degree training programs, and because
the prevailing regulation limited staff training for higher degrees to staff who were younger than age 45.
This restriction limited the number of staff eligible for project-financed higher degree training, resulting in
the reduced output of staff with higher degrees. However, this appeared to be only a temporary setback
which was being overcome by the PUs' own regular staff development programs whereby younger staff
registered for a higher degree while employed by the university which provided incentives, such as reduced
or waived tuition fees.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In 2000, several PUs faced difficulties with counterpart funding for the project due to the sudden increase
in student enrollments. After the installation of lab equipment, some PUs claimed that the plan for
counterpart funding covered only installation, not maintenance costs, raising questions about the
sustainability of the investments in equipment (MOE/FILO, 2004 draft APR, p. 5). The frequent changes
of staff responsible for the university partnership program, and the arbitrary changes of certain partnership
activities had an adverse effect on certain aspects of the program. The problems were addressed by the
CEP during inspection visits to PUs and at the year-end conference organized by MOE/FILO to review and
resolve implementation issues.




                                                      - 19 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the total estimated project cost was US$104.4 million, including physical and price
contingencies (US$6.4 million and US$4.8 million, respectively), comprising US$46.5 million in foreign
costs and US$57.7 million in local equivalent (Annex 3, PAD, dated April 14, 1999, p. 44). The
MOE/FILO-revised estimated project cost was US$106.27 million. The project was financed by a loan
amount of US$20.0 million and a credit amount of SDR36.80 million equivalent to US$50.0 million.

The actual project cost was US$121.73 million, 116.60% of the revised appraisal estimate. The increased
cost was mainly due to the cost of civil works funded by counterpart resources from the institutions. The
heaviest expenditures, in absolute terms, compared with the revised appraisal estimates, were laboratory
equipment (US$76.47 million = 132.07%), and curriculum and textbook development (US$6.27 million =
285%). Annex 2 provides details on costs and financing.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The rating for sustainability is highly likely. The Government regarded this project as the second wave of
major reforms to create a strong, modernized and broadened curriculum content and skills base which
would enable the project universities to prepare graduates for an increasingly knowledge- and
technology-driven economy. The MOE fully understood the fact that implementing the much-needed
reforms in the first and second year undergraduate basic science and engineering programs would help the
country keep abreast of the quickening speed of global knowledge-creation and technological innovation.
The new generation of graduates would help speed up national efforts in the transformation of a planned
economy to a socialist market economy which, if successful, would provide important and
closely-monitored models of institutional change for China's vast higher education sub-sector. The reforms
are built on a strong policy platform based on the Guidelines of China's Educational Reform and
Development (GOC, February 1993),which called for, among other things, the provision of specialists for
the nation's modernization. All the outcomes which had a significant institutional impact (listed in para.
4.5, above) are the long-term building blocks of the project's sustainability. Since 1995, cost recovery
mechanisms had been in place with the implementation of tuition fees. While students who enrolled prior to
1995 did not pay tuition fees, those who enrolled from 1999 were required to pay them. With the rapid
enrollment growth, the real income of the PUs would correspondingly rise, thus increasing their ability to
sustain the project reforms in teaching and learning.

To ensure sustainability in the immediate post-completion period, every project university prepared as part
of their ICRs a plan for sustaining project investments. Many included appropriate policies and
regulations, with the necessary budget provisions, to create a favorable environment for the continued
support of the lab experiment centers and the teaching/learning reforms. For example, HIT included plans
for the continued development of teaching in its second stage of Project 985 and the Eleventh Five-Year
Plan, 2006-2010, with the proposed investment of RMB 100 million to build a new laboratory complex, in
addition to the annual allocation of RMB 200,000 to maintain each of the four labs developed under the
project, and an equal amount to operate the graduate tracer system. Other budgetary provisions were made
for training lab center personnel and investment in the partnership activities, including dissemination of
reforms, with Heilongjiang College of Science and Technology (HIT, ICR pp. 40-41). Wuhan University
plans to invest RMB 4 million in the next five years for domestic and overseas training of academic and
laboratory teaching and administrative staff (WHU ICR, p. 28).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As all the PUs and PIs are long-established, functioning institutions supported according to their



                                                    - 20 -

governmental or ministerial affiliation by MOE, various Ministries, municipalities and provincial
authorities, the transition from project status to regular operations for the project universities and partner
institutions has been a seamless process.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The first Bank project in China in 1981 was for higher education development, which signalled the start of
a constructive Bank-Borrower relationship in education projects. By the mid-1990's, however,
undergraduate curricula had not been updated for over a decade. The 1997 Bank Sector Report, China:
Higher Education Reform (op.cit.) provided the rationale for the ground-breaking higher education reform
project that focused, for the first time, on reforms in undergraduate science and engineering programs. The
Bank Sector Report was in line with the 1993 Guidelines for Development and the Reform of China's
Education System which called upon the education sector to speed up the process of transforming the
planned economy into a socialist market economy. The project complemented on-going Government
reforms in higher education at the post-graduate level, particularly in "Project 211" which however,
focused largely on physical infrastructure enhancement, whereas this project provided the impetus for
reforms in curriculum and teaching methodology, and institutional management and finance. The Bank
brought to the project design valuable international experience with regard to science and engineering
education development, international higher education consortia information, and management information
systems.

7.2 Supervision:
Budget constraints and the tight work schedule of the counterpart task team, coupled with the SARS crisis
in early 2003 reduced the number of field supervision missions, which however, was supplemented by desk
reviews of project progress based on the Annual Progress Reports (APR) submitted by MOE/FILO. A
total of 13 Implementation Status and Results (ISRs) (formerly Project Status Reports, PSRs) were
recorded, the first dated June 29, 1999 and the last June 7, 2005. Field supervision missions and
communication between Bank resident mission staff and MOE/FILO staff provided timely and consistent
support to MOE/FILO and to those PUs which the missions were able to visit in matters pertaining to
procurement of equipment and services, financial management and disbursement of loan funds, and project
reporting. From the outset, emphasis was placed on strengthening the monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
scheme to track and report on progress towards project objectives and outcomes. Budget constraints also
limited the site visits and composition of the supervision team. In between the formal supervision missions,
the Resident Mission staff provided regular support to MOE/FILO to resolve various implementation,
disbursement and financial management problems. The supervision teams were flexible in addressing
implementation issues. The findings and recommendations of supervision missions are well documented in
aide memoires, back-to-office reports, and ISRs. The Bank's supervision performance is rated satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. The identification, preparation, and appraisal missions
were appropriately staffed with a judicious mix of well managed, and effective higher education specialists.
Project negotiations were well planned, managed and executed. The supervsions were adequate with timely
assistance to the Borrower, despite the budget constraints.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
To prepare for the project, MOE had commissioned a fairly extensive body of research in locations across
China. The findings had been reported in the project areas of curriculum, teaching, and management



                                                      - 21 -

reform. In addition, to facilitate the work of the Bank's identification and preparation missions, MOE's
HED had also commissioned 216 research projects nationwide on subject content, teaching method reform,
and management reform in higher education. (The Bank had earlier supported these activities through an
IDF Grant.)

Consensus among universities participating in the project was developed through national workshops
convened during the project identification, preparation and pre-appraisal stages. This was to ensure that
the universities were fully informed about various aspects of project design, implementation and follow-up.
Between Bank missions, the MOE task team convened several workshops for continuing this work. In
addition, a national experts committee worked with and advised the project teams. Project design involved
university management, administrative and academic staff, and civil service staff at all levels of
government managing higher education institutions. The graduate tracer and social assessment studies
covered a wide circle of stakeholders, including students, parents, employers and minority group
representatives to elicit their views about the project and its objectives. Government's performance during
project preparation is rated as satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
MOE/FILO made a good head-start with the training of project, procurement and financial management
staff soon after project launch. The centrally-organized activities (domestic and overseas study tours and
dissemination seminars) were well-planned and carried out efficiently. The policy-based studies were
implemented as planned, with summary reports issued in 2004, but no final official reports were published.
The Higher Education Advisory Panel (HEAP), also known as the Chinese Expert Panel (CEP) provided
effective advisory support for the project. Frequent staff changes in FILO adversely affected regularity and
continuity of annual project progress reporting, especially at the final stage of project implementation. All
the PUs submitted individual ICRs, most with extensive coverage of project activities, particularly of the
lab experiment centers. The CEP submitted a summary report on its supervisory activities, and
MOE/FILO submitted a consolidated report based on the 27 project university ICRs. The Borrower was in
full compliance with all loan/credit covenants. All audit reports had been submitted without negative
comments.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Each of the PUs had its own FILO as the implementation unit. As implementation gathered momentum,
some institutional FILOs and many lab centers experienced staff turnover problems which caused
communication problems between PUs and their partner institutions, adversely affecting the partnership
cooperative activities and management of the lab centers. From year 2000, some PUs had local funding
difficulties due to the sudden increase in student enrollments. Apart from these problems, overall
implementation and progress reporting were well managed.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall the Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

Key lessons learned are summarized as follows:

Project Design and Management

1.       The project demonstrated clearly the crucial importance of: (i) government commitment to the
large-scale reform of higher education to ensure successful implementation; and (ii) the effective


                                                     - 22 -

coordination and integration of the centralized technical assistance and institutional management of training
and development of key management and teaching staff, which were the primary enabling factors in the
successful implementation of the university reforms (para. 4.1 and Component 3, I, p. 14).

Policy-Based Studies

2.       Quality Assurance. A quality assurance system for undergraduate programs requires continued
efforts to: (i) clarify the capacity-building needs at the national and institutional levels in the context of the
decentralized control and diverse structure of higher education; (ii) transform the evaluation system from
being an externally-driven mechanism into an internally-motivated, self-generating agency; and (iii)
establish guidelines based on nationally-accepted standards for the accreditation of private tertiary
institutions in preparation for their expanding role in the education and training of high-level skilled
manpower for China's fast-expanding economy ("Quality Assessment", p. 15).

3.       Institutional Autonomy. As improvement in institutional governance is the key to effective higher
educational institutional autonomy, a supportive policy framework and financial arrangements need to be
augmented by strong governance to reinforce institutional autonomy against external administrative
interventions ("Managerial Autonomy", p. 15).

Competitive Funding for Textbook Development

4.       The strategy adopted for textbook development demonstrated the usefulness of competitive bidding
as an effective instrument in improving institutional efficiency and performance, provided objectives are
clearly defined, a peer review mechanism is in place, and a set of transparent criteria is established to guide
the process ("Textbooks and Electronic Materials", p. 16).

Equipment Procurement

5.       Some universities experienced poor or non-existent after-sales service for equipment; others could
not obtain replacement of defective equipment which generally was locally manufactured and nominally
less costly than the imported (foreign-manufactured) equipment. The experience suggested that the best
cost may turn out to be not cost-effective; and therefore, cost considerations needed to be balanced against
quality and specifications of service standard in the procurement of precision instruments (para. 5.2).

Counterpart Funding

6.       Many PUs learned after equipment had been delivered that the local funding provided only for the
cost of equipment installation not maintenance. The experience suggested a need to include funding for
equipment maintenance, as well as installation at least during the project period when preparing counterpart
financing of the project (para. 5.3).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Note: Borrower's comments included are unedited.

9.1 The Borrower thinks that the Bank's ICR made a clear description of the project and its
implementation in terms of project targets, implementation experience and results. The statistical data
supporting the report is trustworthy. The Borrower agrees on the whole to the viewpoints, analysis and



                                                      - 23 -

recommendations in the ICR.

9.2      Project Background. In 1993, in order to speed up the modernization, the Chinese Government in
The Guidelines of China's Educational Reform and Development called for reforms to: (a) provide the
required specialists for China's modernization and for establishment of a socialist market economy; (b)
improve the social status, work and living conditions of teachers; and (c) build up numbers of key
universities and establish key courses of studies and specialized studies. The main problem in achieving
this strategic target was mainly in three aspects: (a) Shortage of education funding. The proportion of
funded educational expenditure was even lower than 3% of Gross National Product of our country by the
end of the 1990's. Following the fast enlargement of the scale of higher education, the problems of the
funds for higher education are more severe. In the 1990's, the universities of our country had already
formed an education of mainly financial allocation funded with other patterns of raising education funds
through many channels. In this case, university become the host of funds raising, but because of the gap of
economic development level and financial resources invest among different areas, some universities still
face the serious funds shortage situation, which is not good for university development. (b) The university
new curriculum reform since the 1980's made the school teachers shoulder the pressure of the knowledge
structure renewal. Furthermore, traditional teaching materials can not meet the new requirements of the
new period either. Therefore, a large number of funds for teaching staff training and textbook compiling
are needed badly. Data shows that universities of our country are confined by factors such as being
insufficient in input of science and technology, which leading to low scientific and technical innovation
level. This means that the scientific creativity is not in a high level because of the limitation of insufficient
investment in science in universities.

9.3      After a careful study and discussion with World Bank and based on the need of country's on-going
modernized development strategy, our government determines to utilize World Bank loan supported Higher
Education Reform Project to open up a new way in order to solve the above-mentioned development
bottleneck problems of higher education through adopting the advanced idea of running a school, focusing
on supporting the undergraduate educational reforms in 28 project universities, and improving the
education conditions of the universities.

9.4      Project Objective. The agreed objective of the project was to: (a) improve the teaching and
learning quality and relative teaching conditions and cultivate more innovative students through reforms in
curriculum system, experiment teaching system and teaching pattern of the science and engineering first
and second year undergraduate; and (b) strengthen the programming and management ability of
government and universities to drive the implementation of the above reforms. This project will definitely
provide favorable environment for project universities and partnership universities to better adapt for the
development of socialist market economy of China.

9.5      Project Implementation and Results. Since the project launching 5 years ago, the project has
reached all the goals pre-planned and then come to a closure on July 31, 2005. Thus, the targets are fully
met and all construction tasks are completed. The project has a performance in promoting the conditions of
project universities, deepening the reform of undergraduate education, and improving the teachers'
professions and abilities of management staff. This project impelled the management mechanism reform of
labs and combined the originally separated labs into 117 experimental teaching centers and multimedia
teaching centers with a total area of 420,984 m2 and total experiment teaching staff number of 5,539.
Every year, with the help of these centers, 30,876,600 person times of teaching task can be made. Besides,
the labs areas of basic experimental teaching centers have been enlarged from 245,498 m2 in 1999 to the
current 420,984 m2; the value of equipment has also increased 91.47 million dollars. All the experimental
centers are open to the whole university that realized the resources sharing and intercollegiate resources


                                                     - 24 -

communication. The technological assistance activities supported by project organized domestic trainings
and also study tours in foreign countries. Besides, various seminars were held. In total, the number of
project trained staff reaches 39,634 person times completing 152.89% of the project plan. In all, the
collaboration activities have established relations with 30 project universities, and the investment made by
the project reaches 28.657 million RMB.

9.6      The implementation of the project has impelled the reform in undergraduates' education and
teaching methods, especially in the experiment courses of basic courses for the first and second year
students. These experiment courses now turn out to be tightly integrated with the respective theoretical
courses and as well as independent. In order to realize the student cultivation goal of "Knowledgeable,
capable, and competent" in experiment courses, the project gives much attention to re-equipped the labs,
renew the teaching staff structure to realize a human resources recombination, and construct a new
management mode and mechanism of experimental centers. Project also undertakes some goals, which has
been realized step by step during the implementation of project: increase the utilization rate of lab
equipment with the link of experimental courses reforms; strengthen the training part for university
executives, teaching staff and technical teaching staff by training activities both in central level and
university level to enhance teachers' quality; project universities provide assistance to partnership
universities in fields like human resources, material resources and funds and consequently, their deeds are
warmly welcomed by the partnership universities; in total, 9.07 million RMB has been invested in
researches with 186 sets of newly reformed textbooks, 259 renewed courses and many researches valuable
to teaching reform and development as the fruit; combined with experimental courses reformation, project
universities have bought books and teaching software that relevant to undergraduates' basic courses;
project universities have realized the project radiation to other fields through cooperation with partnership
universities, especially has obtain good results in education reform and construction.

9.7      Project universities have completed all the labs renewal work in the experimental centers and thus
have strengthened the equipment condition in laboratories and enhanced the utilization rate of the
equipment. In addition, these universities put much more efforts to teaching reform, construction and
amendment of experiment courses, construction of the management mechanism of experimental centers,
improvement of utilization of books, speeding up the construction of teaching staff, making good and
detailed conclusion and evaluation of the researches of this project and putting it into practice.

These efforts of project universities provide a stable base for realizing the goals of this project. These are
fully analyzed in MOE's ICR and Bank's ICR, so no further description will be given here.

9.8      Project Sustainability. After this project, aiming at maximum of the impact of this project in
personnel training, we will continue to support the university for the development of the project in the
aspects as policy, personnel, and funds, and also support the university to organize and implement the
laboratory construction, teacher training, bachelor degree reform, reform of curriculum and course content,
teaching material construction and university teaching management and so on. Besides, the development of
the project will be included in the master plan and annual plan for higher education development. In order
to properly promote the overall development of university education, we will assist the project universities
to make the benefits development and fund input plan of five years and after the project is closed.
Recently, Ministry of Education begins to set up the demonstration centre of national-level experiment
teaching and organize evaluations on the experimental canters of university and regular review on each
center. It is predictable that a large part of these centers will be supported by the project. Also more
relevant policies and plans will come out for continuous promoting the development of every project
university (see details in relevant paragraph in MOE's ICR).




                                                       - 25 -

9.9      Borrower's Performance. All the activities related to supporting Institutional Capacity for Change
are managed by MOE, who has supervised the implementation of project through these activities. FILO of
MOE has organized overall bidding and procurement of equipment, study tours, national training
workshops and dissemination seminars, and provided project management, summary and evaluation.
Higher Education Department and Financial Department of MOE also have favorably cooperated with
project universities in operating five researches and studies, curriculum reforms and textbooks compiling
activities (electronic textbooks are included). The Advisory Panel of Project supported by MOE has played
a crucially important role in assisting FILO of MOE to supervise and evaluate the overall status of project.
FILO conspicuously fulfilled its task in project supervision, providing very constructive suggestions and
recommendations to project units, and having good coordination with departments concerned, which
guarantee a right direction of project development and also rich outcomes of project. The activities
mentioned above help to strengthen the programming, management and coordinating ability of the
university authorities. On the whole, the Ministry of Education has successfully fulfilled its duties in
project implementation and management.

9.10     Comment on World Bank's Performance. World Bank (WB) officials and consultants sent to
China are all possessed with high professional and management ability. They had worked harmoniously
with the Chinese Counterparts, especially with FILO of MOE who in charge of this project. From the
beginning of the project, the task manager of the World Bank and Bank consultants have been paying much
attention to the quality and innovation of the project. They provided lots of valuable suggestions and
recommendations when visiting and supervising the project and helped solve problems appeared in the
implementation period, which guaranteed the smooth implementation of the project. In a word, in the
evaluation process, implementation process and implementation completion process, their outstanding work
gained respect and high commends from project implementing institutions.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Not Applicable.




                                                     - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

   Outcome/Impact Indicators

            Indicator/Matrix               Projected in Last ISR Actual/Latest Estimate
Project Development Objective:

Quality and relevance of undergraduate
basic science and engineering programs
improved.
             A. OUTCOMES

Component 1: Achieving Improvement                                 In this section, actual achievements
in Teaching and Learning.                                          pertain to status at EOP.


A1.1: 75% of project universities (PUs)    Over 75% of the PUs     100% of PUs and PIs used the updated
and the Partner Institutions (PIs) use the and PIs used the        courses and updated or newly
curricula review/renewal mechanism on a    reformed curricula on a developed textbooks (Project
regular basis by end of project (EOP).     regular basis.          Performance Indicators ­ PPIs ­ Table
                                                                   2 and Table 6).

A1.2: 75% of institutions have adopted     Over 75% of             100% of PUs and PIs adopted and
and implemented relevant reform programs institutions had adopted  implemented the reforms developed
by EOP.                                    and implemented         under the project, in teaching/learning
                                           relevant reform         in laboratory experiment centers. The
                                           programs by EOP.        relevant examinations have also been
                                                                   reformed to conform with the reformed
                                                                   courses; the credit system has been
                                                                   adopted for the Year 1 and Year 2
                                                                   science and engineering programs,
                                                                   providing greater flexibility for students
                                                                   to choose or change their majors, and
                                                                   to combine different disciplines as
                                                                   desired.

A1.3: 75% of previously identified                                 Over 75% of identified
teaching/learning/management good                                  teaching/learning and management
practices used by PUs and by at least 70%                          good practices are used by PUs and
of PIs by EOP.                                                     PIs. Details are provided by the
                                                                   individual PU ICRs and the sub-reports
                                                                   on their lab experiment centers.




                                                   - 27 -

             Indicator/Matrix               Projected in Last ISR        Actual/Latest Estimate

A1.4: Twenty-eight (28) sets of                                   By end of project year 1, there were 31
partnerships between PUs and PIs                                  PIs (Lanzhou University had 4
established and operational by end of                             partners, and Jilin University had 2,
project year 1.                                                   taking over Jilin University of
                                                                  Technology's partner after the merger
                                                                  of the two universities in 2000). Not
                                                                  all partnerships were in full operation
                                                                  by end of project year 1, because many
                                                                  were still working out the details of
                                                                  partnership activities. By Mid-Term,
                                                                  however, all partnerships had been
                                                                  established and operational.


Component 2: Using Partnerships and
Networks to Spread Reforms.




A2.1: 75% of Partner Institutions (PIs) use As in A1.1 above.     As in A1.1 above.
the curricula reviewal/review mechanism
on a regular basis by EOP.

A2.2: 75% of institutions have adopted      As in A1.2 above.     As in A1.2 above.
and implemented relevant reform programs
by EOP.

A2.3: 70% of previously identified                                As in A1.3 and A1.4 above.
teaching/learning/management good
practices used by at least 70% of PIs by
EOP.




A2.4 Twenty-eight (28) sets of                                    As in A1.3 and A1.4 above.
partnerships between PIs and PUs
established and Operational by end of
project year 1




                                                   - 28 -

            Indicator/Matrix               Projected in Last ISR        Actual/Latest Estimate


Component 3: Supporting Institutional
Capacity for Change.

A3.1 A system of quality assessment in                           A study on quality assessement,
higher education developed and                                   initiated in May 2001, developed a new
operational by EOP.                                              undergraduate evaluation scheme
                                                                 focused on teaching and learning. The
                                                                 study produced five sub-reports dealing
                                                                 with various aspects of quality
                                                                 assurance. Outcomes included: (i)
                                                                 positive feedback from higher
                                                                 education institutions; (ii) development
                                                                 (on-going) of a pool of evaluation
                                                                 experts and a task force for future
                                                                 undertakings; (iii) establishment and
                                                                 implementation from 2003 a 5-year
                                                                 evaluation cycle; (iv) establishment of a
                                                                 system of regular data collection on
                                                                 undergraduate programs; and (v)
                                                                 establishment (in process) of an
                                                                 evaluation agency under MOE. For
                                                                 details, see ICR, Component 3, II,
                                                                 Policy-based research studies, p. 22.

A3.2: A textbook renewal mechanism                               A study on this issue resulted in a
appropriate for a socialist market economy                       summary report (2003) with
established and operational by EOP.                              recommendations for: (i) re-defining
                                                                 GOC role, including exercising overall
                                                                 quality assurance by developing and
                                                                 applying appropriate indicators and
                                                                 establishing appropriate social
                                                                 institutions for textbook monitoring
                                                                 and evaluation; (ii) strengthening role
                                                                 of publishers through decentralization
                                                                 of the responsibility for textbook
                                                                 development; (iii) increasing choice of
                                                                 textbooks for various subjects to meet
                                                                 the need for multiple sets of learning
                                                                 materials; (iv) introducing competition
                                                                 and incentives for open bids in textbook
                                                                 development; and (v) further
                                                                 diversifying textbook provision by
                                                                 developing electronic teaching/learning
                                                                 materials. Many universities have, in
                                                                 fact, replaced the textbook
                                                                 single-choice with a multiple-choice
                                                                 system. For details, see ICR,
                                                                 Component 3, II, Policy-based research
                                                                 studies, p. 22.




                                                  - 29 -

             Indicator/Matrix               Projected in Last ISR         Actual/Latest Estimate


               B. OUTPUTS

Component 1: Achieving Improvement                                As no baseline was provided in the
in Teaching and Learning.                                         Project Performance Indicators (PPIs)
                                                                  of the PUs' completion reports and in
                                                                  the ICR of MOE/FILO, the
                                                                  comparisons in the increased or
                                                                  decreased OUTPUTS throughout this
                                                                  section are necessarily based on the
                                                                  targets set by the PUs and their actual
                                                                  achievement.
                                                                  In this section, all achievements pertain
                                                                  to status at EOP.

B1.1: (a) Ratio of staff with higher degrees
increased by EOP.                                                 The results for ratio of staff with
                                                                  higher degrees are mixed. Seventeen
                                                                  (63%) of the 27 PUs failed to achieve
                                                                  their targets for increasing the ratio of
                                                                  teachers with Master's degree to
                                                                  full-time teachers. Regarding teachers
                                                                  with doctoral degree, six (2.2%) of the
                                                                  PUs fell short of their targets. The
                                                                  situation reflected complex
                                                                  socioeconomic conditions affecting
                                                                  staff training in the universities, most
                                                                  of which had a high proportion of staff
                                                                  aged 45 or older, usually holding only
                                                                  a bachelor's degree or equivalent, who
                                                                  were ineligible for higher degree
                                                                  training. This apparently was one of
                                                                  the main reasons for many PUs falling
                                                                  short of their training targets. The
                                                                  higher proportion of PUs meeting their
                                                                  targets for Ph.D. teachers suggests that
                                                                  they are the younger academic staff.
                                                                  For details, see PPI, Table 1.

B1.2: Ratio of students to [full-time]                            The average student:full-time teacher
teachers increased by EOP.                                        ratio at appraisal was 11:1 compared
                                                                  with the 2005 ratio of 15:1. Thus the
                                                                  achievement represented a 36%
                                                                  improvement, implying a higher
                                                                  teacher utilization rate that would
                                                                  eventually result in lower per-student
                                                                  costs. Further details in PPI, Table 1.




                                                   - 30 -

             Indicator/Matrix               Projected in Last ISR        Actual/Latest Estimate

B1.3: Cumulative number of teachers                               In 2005, there were 14,055 trained
trained for basic courses increased by EOP.                       teachers teaching Year 1 and Year 2
                                                                  basic undergraduate courses,
                                                                  representing 64.6% of the total of
                                                                  21,745 teachers. As there was no
                                                                  average target for the PUs, relative
                                                                  achievements could be gauged by
                                                                  comparing individual PU achievement
                                                                  against its target. Examples of target
                                                                  (T) versus achievement (A) for selected
                                                                  PUs (using their codes): SEU
                                                                  T=100%; A=170%; NKAI T= 15%;,
                                                                  A=43%; LZU T=50%. A= 97.5%.
                                                                  The majority (88%) of PUs reached or
                                                                  surpassed their targets. The increase
                                                                  in the proportion of trained teachers
                                                                  reflected higher quality staff, which
                                                                  would lead to improved
                                                                  teaching/learning quality. For details,
                                                                  see PPI, Table 8.

B1.4: Cumulative number of trained                                In 2005, the PUs had a total of 16,857
administrator increased by EOP.                                   administrative staff, of whom 9,296
                                                                  (55%) were trained. Twenty-two
                                                                  (81.5%) of the 27 PUs reached or
                                                                  exceeded their targets for trained
                                                                  administrators. The five PUs that fell
                                                                  short of their targets may have
                                                                  encountered a similar problem to that
                                                                  of PUs with staff aged 45 and older
                                                                  who were ineligible for further
                                                                  training. Further details in PPI, Table
                                                                  8.




                                                  - 31 -

            Indicator/Matrix            Projected in Last ISR       Actual/Latest Estimate

B1.5: Number of updated courses and                           Updated Courses. In 2005, the PUs
updated/developed titles of textbooks                         achieved a total of 4,203 (125% of
increased by EOP.                                             the target of 3,304), averaging 157
                                                              per PU versus the average PU target
                                                              of 126 updated courses. The largest
                                                              number was achieved by PKU: 400
                                                              (target also 400). Ten PUs (37%)
                                                              had 200 or more updated courses; 9
                                                              PUs (33%) had between 100 and 199;
                                                              and 8 PUs (30%) had less than 100.

                                                              Updated/developed textbooks, the PUs
                                                              achieved 6,827 titles, averaging 253
                                                              per PU, or 158% of the target of 4,331
                                                              with the average of 160 titles per PU.
                                                              With one exception (JLU), all the PUs
                                                              exceeded their targets, from 102.5%
                                                              (XJTU) to 691% (BUAA). Further
                                                              details in PPI, Table 2.

 B1.6: Ratio of courses with reformed                         The PUs achieved 9,434
examinations increased by EOP.                                examination-reformed courses, 224%
                                                              of the target of 4,204, averaging 349
                                                              per PU, ranging from 20 (100% of
                                                              target of PKUHSC) to 1,560 (137% of
                                                              the target of LZU). With five
                                                              exceptions, all the PUs reached or
                                                              surpassed their targets, from a modest
                                                              102% (BNU) to a remarkable 996%
                                                              (HIT). In absolute terms, LZU had
                                                              the largest number at 1,560. Further
                                                              details in PPI, Table 2.




                                               - 32 -

             Indicator/Matrix             Projected in Last ISR         Actual/Latest Estimate

B1.7: Ratio of open-shelf books increased                       Twenty-three (85%) of the PUs had at
by EOP.                                                         least 50% of their books on open
                                                                shelves. The percent achievements
                                                                ranged from 100% for seven PUs
                                                                (BUAA, PKUHSC, SEU, LZU, SJTU,
                                                                XJTU, MTUC) to 37% (BNU). A
                                                                commendable case is HIT which set a
                                                                modest target of 15%, but actually
                                                                achieved 78% open-shelf. Further
                                                                details in PPI, Table 2. Accessibility to
                                                                open-shelf books should be seen
                                                                against the greatly expanded and
                                                                improved in-library reading/study
                                                                rooms and carrels (ICR, Component 1
                                                                (a) (iii) (c) Improving Learning
                                                                Opportunities and Conditions, pp.
                                                                15-16).

B1.8: Ratio of annual borrowed library                          Only 12 (44%) of PUs set a target of
books.                                                          50% or higher for book borrowings,
                                                                and nine had targets between 30% and
                                                                40%. In actual achievement, 23 (85%)
                                                                of PUs reached or surpassed their
                                                                targets for annual number of books
                                                                borrowed. Seventeen (63%) of PUs
                                                                achieved 50% and higher of book
                                                                borrowings, and six (22%) had
                                                                30%-49% borrowings. Further details
                                                                in PPI, Table 2. The book-borrowing
                                                                rate should also be assessed against the
                                                                expanded and improved in-library
                                                                reading/study rooms and carrels (ICR,
                                                                Component 1 (a) (iii) (c) Improving
                                                                Learning Opportunities and
                                                                Conditions, pp. 15-16).

B1.9: 90% of labs and experiment centers                        Practically all the laboratories in every
restructured and equipment upgraded by                          PU were restructured, as evidenced by
EOP.                                                            the increase in lab space and the PUs'
                                                                completion reports testifying to the
                                                                reorganization and integration of the
                                                                formerly fragmented lab facilities into
                                                                dynamic, research-oriented
                                                                teaching/learning centers, equipped in
                                                                varying degrees with the latest
                                                                scientific equipment and instruments.
                                                                Details in PPI, Table 3-a & 3-b.




                                                 - 33 -

            Indicator/Matrix            Projected in Last ISR         Actual/Latest Estimate

B1.10: 80% of good practices in                               In the absence of specific indicators for
teaching/learning/management identified                       "good practices", no hard data are
are disseminated by EOP.                                      available to show the amount and
                                                              proportion of good practices identified
                                                              and their dissemination. However,
                                                              practically all PUs' completion reports
                                                              declared that they had adopted the
                                                              student-centered approach to
                                                              teaching/learning, the credit system
                                                              allowing students a wider, more
                                                              flexible choice and combination of
                                                              courses and majors; reduction of
                                                              formal lectures and corresponding
                                                              increase in time for students'
                                                              self-study; a less rigid examination
                                                              scheme incorporating lab practical
                                                              work, library and website research
                                                              assignments, oral presentations and
                                                              other evaluation methods, as well as
                                                              the conventional written tests to assess
                                                              student learning achievement. All the
                                                              project circumstantial evidence point to
                                                              a high level of good practices identified
                                                              and disseminated to the Partner
                                                              Institutions and non-project institutions
                                                              as well as to other faculties within the
                                                              PU. Further details in PPI, Table 3a
                                                              and 3b, and especially the PUs'
                                                              completion reports.




                                               - 34 -

             Indicator/Matrix               Projected in Last ISR        Actual/Latest Estimate

Staff Updating and training program                               Data source for this section is PPI,
designed and operational.                                         Table 8. The numbers pertain to
                                                                  status at EOP.
B1.11: 90% of university
administrative/management staff trained in                        A total of 6,215 (221% of the target
relevant reform subjects by EOP.                                  2,811) administrative/management
                                                                  staff had been trained.
B1.4: (b) 90% of academic staff trained in
relevant subjects and teaching                                    A grand total of 26,430 (325% of the
methodologies by EOP.                                             target 8,108) academic staff had been
                                                                  trained through off-job, in-job, long-
                                                                  and short-term training programs.
B1.4: (c) 90% of lab
managers/technicians and librarians                               A total of 4,471 (152% of the target
trained in relevant technical areas by EOP.                       2,925) laboratory staff had been
                                                                  trained; and 2,517 (205% of the target
                                                                  1,223) library management staff had
                                                                  been trained.

Component 2: Using partnerships and                               Source of data for this section is PPI,
networks to spread reform.                                        Table 5, and refer to the status at
                                                                  EOP.

B2.1: Number of teachers trained                                  The training output in three programs
long-term and short-term for Partner                              was: Degree, 499; Non-degree, 604;
Institutions (PIs).                                               Short-term, 1,071.

B2.2: Number of PI students served for                            Total students served: 42,317.
lab experiment/practical work.

B2.3: Value of equipment donated.                                 Total value of donations was RMB
                                                                  28.68 million, comprising: (a)
                                                                  Equipment, 18.42 m.; (b) Books, 1.19
                                                                  m.; (c) Software, 2.92 m.; (d) Others,
                                                                  6.15 m.

B2.4: Number of teachers sent to teach in                         A total of 307 PU teachers served the
PIs.                                                              PIs, averaging 11.4 teachers per PU, in
                                                                  teaching, consultations in curriculum
                                                                  and teaching/learning materials
                                                                  development, teaching methodology,
                                                                  lab experiment center
                                                                  planning/development and experiment
                                                                  teaching. The largest contingent, 68
                                                                  teachers, was from Beijing Normal
                                                                  University to its partner Northwest
                                                                  Normal University.




                                                   - 35 -

            Indicator/Matrix              Projected in Last ISR         Actual/Latest Estimate
B2.5: Number of updated courses and                             The larger proportion of courses and
updated textbook titles in PIs.                                 textbook titles was developed by the
                                                                PIs themselves. The largest output of
                                                                updated courses came from Tsinghua
                                                                University's partner, Yunnan
                                                                University of Industry, with 600
                                                                courses. The total partnership program
                                                                output was in two categories: (a)
                                                                Courses updated by PIs' own efforts,
                                                                2,284; cooperatively with PUs, 259;
                                                                (b) Textbooks updated by PIs, 1,937;
                                                                cooperatively, 186.

Component 3: Supporting Institutional
Capacity for Change.

B3.1: Number of staff trained in project                        Staff training under MOE's
management, financial management, and                           national-level technical assistance took
procurement management.                                         place during November 1999 -
                                                                December 2002. FILO reported in
                                                                June 2004 that 476 had been trained,
                                                                distributed as follows: (a) 84 in project
                                                                management and implementation; (b)
                                                                56 in financial management; and (c)
                                                                336 in equipment
                                                                procurement/management. However,
                                                                FILO's ICR (para. 3.3.1) stated that
                                                                550 had been trained, versus 504
                                                                planned, with no explanation or
                                                                substantiation for the additional 74
                                                                staff trained after December 2002.
B3.2: Number of study tours completed.                          The study tours, implemented during
                                                                the last quarter of 2002, had 210
                                                                participants versus 217 planned. They
                                                                included university presidents, division
                                                                directors, and laboratory chiefs. The
                                                                tour groups, which visited higher
                                                                education institutions in Europe, North
                                                                America, Australia, Malaysia and
                                                                Singapore, focused on management of
                                                                teaching, finance, institutions, science
                                                                and engineering laboratory experiment
                                                                centers, and multimedia and language
                                                                laboratories. For details, see ICR
                                                                Component 3, I, National-level
                                                                technical assistance activities, p. 21.




                                                 - 36 -

              Indicator/Matrix             Projected in Last ISR         Actual/Latest Estimate

B3.3: Number of post-study-tour                                  The dissemination seminars, conducted
dissemination seminars conducted.                                over the course of 3 years (August
                                                                 2003 - July 2005) were planned for
                                                                 588 participants, but the actual number
                                                                 was 1,764. The three-fold increase
                                                                 was due to three seminars held during
                                                                 April-July 2005, on science and
                                                                 engineering laboratory teaching &
                                                                 management, and teaching reform
                                                                 achievements, which drew 749
                                                                 participants. For details, see ICR,
                                                                 Component 3, I, National-level
                                                                 technical assistance activities, p. 21.

Curriculum Reform and Textbook
Development.

B3.4: Number of policy-based research                            All the five planned policy-based
studies completed and disseminated for                           research studies were completed and
curriculum reform.                                               their findings disseminated for the
                                                                 pertinent reforms in curricula,
                                                                 textbooks and other teaching/learning
                                                                 materials.

B3.5: Number of textbooks and electronic                         A total of 6,827 textbooks were
materials developed.                                             updated or developed. The total output
                                                                 of electronic materials was not
                                                                 quantified, but the majority of PUs
                                                                 reported developing CAI materials
                                                                 which were shared with their partner
                                                                 institutions. Details in PPI, Table 2.

Tracer Study Mechanism

B3.6: A graduate tracking system, an                             The model for a graduate tracer study
institutional evaluation system, and a set                       mechanism was developed by
of financial indicators are tested in a                          Shanghai Jiaotong University and
number of institutions and results                               tested in all PUs. The resultant
disseminated among PUs and PIs.                                  questionnaire and software were
                                                                 developed and used in several PUs,
                                                                 including Shanghai Jiaotong: HUST,
                                                                 HIT, BIT and DLUT. For details, see
                                                                 ICR Component 3, II, Policy-based
                                                                 research studies, p. 23.




                                                  - 37 -

             Indicator/Matrix               Projected in Last ISR        Actual/Latest Estimate


Student Loan Pilot Scheme for Lanzhou
University as an alternative to an existing
scheme.
                                                                  Launched in November 1999 with a
B3.7: Number of applicants and                                    US$100,000 PHRD Grant, the funds
beneficiaries disaggregated by gender and                         were disbursed by December 1999. By
amount disbursed and repaid annually by                           July 2005, the cumulative loan
EOP.                                                              recovery was RMB 707,000 (about
                                                                  US$86,000 equivalent). It was unclear
                                                                  whether the pilot scheme could be a
                                                                  viable alternative to the existing
                                                                  scheme.
                                                                  There were 1,413 applicants and 614
                                                                  were beneficiaries, of whom 17% were
                                                                  women, 6% were minority students.
                                                                  For further details, see ICR,
                                                                  Component 3, IV, Student loan pilot
                                                                  scheme, p. 27.




                                                   - 38 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                        US$ million  US$ million
1. Achieving Improvement in Effective Teaching and
Learning
a. Staff Training (4.8)                                    4.80           3.42         71.25
b. Teaching Reforms (3.2)                                  3.20           3.41        106.56
c. Lab Equipment (57.9)                                   57.90         76.47         132.07
d. Books & Library Materials (4.4)                         4.40           5.06           115
e. Maintenance/Parts/Consumables (13.3)                   13.30         16.46         123.76
2. Using Partnership & Networks to Spread Reform
 a. Partnership Program (5.2)
3. Supporting Institutional Capacity for Change            5.20           6.63         127.5
a. Staff Training (0.1)                                    0.10           0.13           130
b. Study Tours (1.3)                                       1.30           0.99         76.15
c. Curriculum & Textbook Development (2.2)                 2.20           6.27           285
d. Dissemination Workshops (0.3)                           0.30           0.50           167
e. Research & Studies (0.2)                                0.20           0.23           115
f. Operating Cost for Higher Education Advisory Panel:     0.10           0.09            90
HEAP (0.1)

Total Baseline Cost                                       93.00        119.65
 Physical Contingencies                                    6.40
 Price Contingencies                                       4.80           1.88
                         Total Project Costs             104.20        121.53
                                         Front-end fee     0.20           0.20        100.00
                   Total Financing Required              104.40        121.73
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.




                                                - 39 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 1
                                          Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB                  2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                             Other
1. Works                        0.00          0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00
                               (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                       60.40          0.00           21.20            0.00          81.60
                              (54.30)         (0.00)         (7.50)          (0.00)         (61.80)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00            6.30            0.00           6.30
Staff Training                 (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.70)          (0.00)         (2.70)
4. Books & Materials            0.00          5.00            0.00            0.00           5.00
                               (0.00)         (2.30)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (2.30)
5. Consultant Services          0.00          0.00            6.00            0.00           6.00
                               (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.90)          (0.00)         (2.90)
6. Partnership Program          0.00          0.00            0.00            5.40           5.40
                               (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                       60.40          5.00           33.50            5.40          104.30
                              (54.30)         (2.30)         (13.10)         (0.00)         (69.70)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                1
                                          Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB                 2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                            Other
1. Works                        0.00          0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
                               (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                       76.40          0.00           13.20           0.00          89.60
                              (59.60)        (0.00)          (3.50)         (0.00)         (63.10)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00            6.83           6.71          13.54
Staff Training                 (0.00)        (0.00)          (1.44)         (0.00)         (1.44)
4. Books & Materials            0.00          0.00            5.06           2.90           7.96
                               (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)         (2.16)         (2.16)
5. Consultant Services          0.00          0.00            6.00           0.00           6.00
                               (0.00)        (0.00)          (3.00)         (0.00)         (3.00)
6. Partnership Program          0.00          0.00            0.00           4.63           4.63
                               (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                       76.40          0.00           31.09           14.24         121.73
                              (59.60)        (0.00)          (7.94)         (2.16)         (69.70)




                                           - 40 -

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Achieving Improvement       59.61        26.72                    62.98         41.04                 105.7    153.6
in Effective Teaching &
Learning
a. Staff Training               1.04         3.48                     1.21         2.20                  116.3     63.2
b. Teaching Reforms                          3.07                                  2.61                            85.0
c. Lab Equipment               56.43        17.97                    59.60         33.33                 105.6    185.5
d. Books & Library              2.14         2.20                     2.16         2.90                  100.9    131.8
Materials
2. Partnership &                             5.24                                  4.63                            88.4
Networks to Spread
Reform
a. Partnership Program                       5.24                                  4.63                            88.4
3. Supporting Institutional     1.26                                  3.51         5.47                  278.6
Capacity for Change
a. Staff Training               0.10                                  0.03         0.10                  30.0
b. Study Tours                  1.30                                  0.78         0.20                  60.0
c. Curriculum & Textbooks       2.20                                  2.07         4.00                  94.1
Development
d. Dissemination                0.30                                  0.29         1.07                  96.7
Workshops
e. Research & Studies           0.20                                  0.22         0.10                  110.0
f. Operating Cost for           0.10                                  0.10                               100.0
Higher Education
Advisory Panel (HEAP)




                                                           - 41 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 42 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/25/1997                3    Sr. General Educator & Mission       S               S
                                             Leader (1); Operations Analyst
                                             (1); Sr. Education Economist (1)
              06/14/1998                6    Sr. General Educator & Mission       S               S
                                             Leader (1); Operations Analyst
                                             (1); Higher Education
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Analyst (1); Science
                                             and Technology Specialist (1);
                                             Education Economist (1).
              10/14/1998              10     Sr. General Educator & Mission       S               S
                                             Leader (1); Operations Analyst
                                             (1); Educational Planning
                                             Consultant (1); Higher Education
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Engineering and Technology
                                             Consultant (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Science and Technology
                                             Specialist (1); Procurement
                                             Specialists (2); Education
                                             Economist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/11/1999              14     Sr. General Educator &               S               S
                                             Mission Leader (1);
                                             Education Planning
                                             Specialist (1); Education
                                             Specialist (2); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (2);
                                             Principal Counsel (1);
                                             Higher Education
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Operations Analyst (1);
                                             Engineering and Technology
                                             Specialist (1); Higher
                                             Education Specialist (1);
                                             Science and Technology
                                             Specialist (1); Human
                                             Resources Economist (1)



 Supervision
              09/13/2000                6    Principal Education                  S               S




                                              - 43 -

                                           Specialist & Mission Leader
                                           (1); Operations Officer (1);
                                           Curriculum Specialist and
                                           Social Sector Coordinator
                                           (1); Monitoring and
                                           Evaluation Specialist (1);
                                           Procurement Specialist (1);
                                           Disbursement Specialist (1)
               10/21/2002              7   Sr. Operations Officer &             S    S
                                           Mission Leader (1); HD Sector
                                           Coordinator (1); Lead Education
                                           Specialist (1); Sr. Monitoring
                                           and Evaluation Specialist (1); Sr.
                                           Science Education Specialist (1);
                                           Procurement Specialist (1);
                                           Disbursement Specialist (1)
               06/5/2004               7   Sr. Operations Officer & Mission     S    S
                                           Leader (1); Education Specialist
                                           (1); Monitoring and Evaluation
                                           Specialist (1); Science Education
                                           and Research Specialist (1);
                                           Procurement Specialist (1);
                                           Financial Management Specialist
                                           (1); Sr. Program Assistant (1)
               06/20/2005              7   Sr. Operations Officer & Mission     S    S
                                           Leader (1); Education Specialist
                                           (1); Procurement Specialist (1);
                                           Financial Management Specialist
                                           (1); Program Assistant (1);
                                           Monitoring and Evaluation
                                           Specialist (1); Science Education
                                           Specialist (1)

 ICR
               12/21/2005             3     Sr. Operations Officer &            S    S
                                            Mission Leader (1);
                                            Education Specialist (1);
                                            Program Assistant (1);



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            N/A                          593,172
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 N/A                          162,000
  Supervision                           N/A                          300,502
  ICR                                   N/A                            35,000
  Total                                                          1,090,674.00




                                            - 44 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 46 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

  A.   Borrower's Implementation Completion Reports for Credit 3213-CHA and Loan 4474-CHA.

  1. Peking University, July 2005; 234 pages.
  2. Beijing Aeronautics University (undated); 92 pages.
  3. Beijing Science and Technology University (undated); 71 pages.
  4. Beijing Institute of Technology (undated); 74 pages.
  5. Beijing Normal University (undated); 14 pages.
  6. Peking University Health Science Center (formerly Beijing Medical University)
      June 2005; 12 pages.
  7. Dalian University of Technology (undated); 63 pages.
  8. Southeast University (undated); 14 pages.
  9. Fudan University (May 2005); 56 pages.
  10. Harbin Institute of Technology (undated); 222 pages.
  11. Huazhong Institute of Technology (July 2005); 62 pages..
  12. Jilin University ( July 2005); 129 pages.
  13. Jilin Institute of Technology, incorporated into Jilin University.
  14. Lanzhou University (June 2005); 87 pages.
  15. Nanjing University (July 2005); 74 pages.
  16. Nankai University (June 2005); 111 pages.
  17. China Ocean University (August 2005); 157 pages.
  18. Tsinghua University (July 2005); 17 pages.
  19. Shaanxi Normal University (June 2005); 86 pages.
  20. Shanghai Jiaotong University (undated); 29 pages.
  21. Sichuan University (June 2005); 118 pages.
  22. Tianjin University (June 2005); 82 pages.
  23. Wuhan University (undated); 81 pages.
  24. Xian Jiaotong University (August 2005); 135 pages.
  25. Zhejiang University (August 2005); 119 pages.
  26. China University of Science and Technology (undated); 54 pages.
  27. China University of Mining and Technology (undated); 52 pages.
  28. Chongqing University (June 2005); 65 pages.
      (Total 2,310 pages.)

  B. Other Borrower Reports

  1. MOE/FILO: Implementation Completion Report (draft, dated October 2005; final dated
      December 20, 2005, received January 14, 2006).
  2. Chinese Expert Panel, "Work Review and Evaluation Report" (draft: dated August 25, 2005; final:
      dated December 20, 2005, incorporated in MOE/FILO ICR, as Annex 2.)
  3. Mid-Term Review Report, dated June 2002.
  4. Annual Progress Report (draft, 2004).
  5. Project Implementation Plan, dated April 20, 1999.
  6. Centrally-Organized Technical Assistance Activity, dated June 8, 1999.




                                                  - 47 -

Bank Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 19146-CHA, dated April 14, 1999.
2. Development Credit Agreement, Credit No. 3213-CHA dated July 29, 1999,
   and Loan Agreement, Loan No. 4474-CHA, dated July 29, 1999.
3. China Higher Education Reform, Report No. 15573-CHA, dated June 27, 1996.
4. Back-to-Office Reports and Aide-Memoires, Project Status Reports.




                                          - 48 -

Additional Annex 8. Additional Data on Components 1 and 2

Component 1 Tables

Table 1: Science and Engineering Laboratory Experiment Centers.
            Laboratory Center                                         No.                 %
   Physics                                                             26                22.2
   Chemistry                                                           21                17.9
   Biology/Life/Natural Science                                        15                12.8
                              Sub-Total                               62                 53.0
   Electronics                                                          5                4.3
   Engineering                                                         11                9.4
   Electronics & Electrotechnics                                       12                10.2
   Mechanics/Mechanism                                                 14                12.0
                              Sub-Total                               42                 35.9
   Multimedia/Electronics Infotech                                      8                6.8
   Language                                                             5                4.3
                                  Total                               117               100.0
Source: MOE/FILO Project Performance Indicators for PUs, Table 3a.


Table 2: Graduate Employment Rates from 10 Selected Universities,* 1999 and 2005.


  No.         Project University                             Employment Rate (%)

                                                      1999                            2005
 1501              PKU                                 88                              96
 1502              BUAA                                89                              99
 1504              BIT                                 99                              95
 1505              BNU                                 97                              95
 1506              PKUHSC                              97                              93
 1508              SEU                                 98                              98
 1512              JLU                                 93                              93
 1514              LZU                                 79                              70
 1517              COU                                 90                              93
 1518              TSING                               94                              95
*These were universities which had the relevant information.
Source: MOE/FILO Project Performance Indicators (PPIs), Table 1. The above figures have been rounded.




                                                     - 49 -

Table 3: Ratio of Teachers with Master's Degree and PhDs in Selected Universities, 2005.
                                    Ratio of Teachers with Master's Degree among     Ratio of Teachers with PhD among Full-Time
                                              Full-Time (FT) Teachers                              (FT) Teachers
    No.     Project University  Total FT      Total Ts         EOP           Actual Total Ts with      EOP           Actual
                                Teachers       with M       Target (%)      2005 (%)   Ph.D.        Target (%)     2005 (%)
                                               Degree
  1501     PKU                    2189          559              *            26       1299               *            59
  1502     BUAA                   1343          424             35            32        608              45            45
  1503     USTB                   1040          407             65            39        413              30            40
  1504     BIT                    1701          905             50            53        694              40            41
  1505     BNU                    1285          332             55            26        741              30            58
  1506     PKUHSC
                                  2946          1002            29            34       1060              25            36
  1507     DLUT                   1516          684             66            45        472              24            31
  1508     SEU                    2001          722             50            36        625              30            31
  1509     FDAN                   2201          625             45            28        917              45            42
  1510     HIT                    2860          1203            55            42        829              27            29
  1511     HUST                   3923          2350            45            60        997              30            35
  1512     JLU                    4189          1590            63            38       1082              25            26
  1514     LZU                    1283          609             55            47        264              15            21
  1518     TSING                  2097          593             20            28       1,462             70            70
* No target was recorded        Source: MOE/FILO PPIs, Table 1.

Table 4: Cumulative Number of Updated Courses, & Ratio of Coures with Reformed
Examinations in Selected Universities, 2005.
                                                   Cumulative No. of Updated Courses Ratio of Courses with Reformed Examinations

                                                     Target           Actual 2005         Total No.          Reformed Courses
    No.                Project University                           No.       %           of Courses         No.          %

   1506                PKUHSC                           16          18       112              20              20         100

   1511                HUST                            20           25       125             495             495         100

   1512                JLU                            170           116       68             300             200          67

   1514                LZU                            200           321      160             1,140          1,560        137

   1515                NJU                             75           250      333              80             250         313

   1516                NKAI                           210           240      114             1,350          1,242         92

   1517                COU                             50           126      252              70             110         157

   1518                TSING                          220           220      100             300             300         100

   1519                SNNU                            75           89       119              60              40          67

   1520                SJTU                           101           105      104             100             148         148

   1527                CUMT                            61           204      334             136             136         100

Source: MOE/FILO PPIs, Table 2.




                                                                 - 50 -

Table 5: Updated/Developed Textbooks, Library Open-Shelf Books, and Annual Borrowed Volumes
in Selected Universities, 2005.
                                      No. of Updated/Developed     Library Open-Shelf       Annual Library
                                             Textbooks                   Books             Borrowed Volumes
                                                   Actual 2005   Target     Actual 2005    Target   Actual 2005
   No.         Project University     Target      No.        %                  (%)                      (%)

  1502           BUAA                 150         272      181     100          100         70           46
  1505           BNU                  100         210      210     25            37         17           23
  1509           FDAN                 500         764      153     95            95         25           25
  1510           HIT                  150         238      159     15            78         39           50
  1511           HUST                  30         70       233     88            92         22           90
  1512           JLU                  185         139       75     49            83         38           40
  1519           SNNU                  50         124      248     44            49         12           28
  1522           TJU                  120         292      243     30            55         35           65
  1523           WHU                  260         260      100     76            94         100          168
  1524           XJTU                 120         123      102     100          100         75           76
  1525           ZJU                  100         183      183     85            86         60           64
  1527           CUMT                  60         82       137     37           100         41           62
Source: MOE/FILO PPIs, Table 2.



Table 6: Trained Teachers in Year 1 and Year 2 Undergraduate Basic Courses
in Selected Universities.

                                                               Ratio of Trained Teachers for

     No.            Project University                        Year 1 & Year 2 Basic Courses

                                               Total No. of    Trained               Target   Actual 2005 (%)
                                                 Teachers      Teachers              (%)

    1506                 PKUHSC                    2,946            1,426             45             48

    1511                 HUST                      1,382             670              45             48

    1512                 JLU                       1,701            1,105             60             65

    1514                 LZU                         158             154              50             97

    1515                 NJU                         330             330              90            100

    1516                 NKAI                        857             367              15             42

    1517                 COU                         380             220              56             57

    1518                 TSING                       800             721              90             90

    1519                 SNNU                        239             86               35             36

    1520                 SJTU                        246             58               80             23

    1527                 CUMT                        232             115              30             50

Source: MOE/FILO PPIs, Table 2.




                                                       - 51 -

Table 7: Ratio of Students to Full-Time Teachers in Selected Universities, 2005.
                                            Ratio of Students to Full-Time (FT) Teachers
  No.         Project University         Total             Total FT             EOP       Actual
                                        Students            Teachers            Target    (2005)

 1506            PKUHSC                  13,126              2,946               5:1       5:1

 1507            DLUT                    31332               1,516              13:1       21:1

 1509            FDAN                    29,028              2,201              18:1       13:1

 1515            NJU                     31,615              1,905              20:1       11:1

 1516            NKAI                    30,782              1,587              11:1       19:1

 1517            COU                     18,940               950               12:1      20.:1

 1518            TSING                   27,095              2,097              11:1       13:1

 1519            SNNU                    13,265              1,182              11:1       11:1

 1520            SJTU                    33,948              2,254              12:1       15:1

 1521            SCU                     65,162              3,622              14:1       18:1

 1522            TJU                     23,474              1,891              13:1       15:1

 1524            XJTU                    19,157              2,363              12:1       8:1

 1526            CUST                    18,586              1,360              11:1       14:1

 1527            CUMT                    21,077              1,392              12:1       15:1

Source: MOE/FILO PPIs, Table 1. The ratios are rounded.




                                                     - 52 -

Component 2 Tables

Table 8: Partnership Program: Budget and Value of Materials Donated.
                                                                                  Value of Materials Donated by Project Universities to Partner
                                                                 Budget                                  Institutions
  No.      Project          Partner Institution                (RMB '000)                                 (RMB'000)
          University                                                                                           Soft
           (Code)                                      Planned  Actual     %      Equipment      Books         ware       Others        TOTAL
  1       PKU        Inner-Mongolia University         2,700    3,958     146.6    3,106            54           --        798           3,958
   2      BUAA       Guizhou Industry University       1,800    165.7      92.1    1,448             1           --         31           1,480
   3      USTB       Baotou Iron & Steel College       1,350    1,350     100.0     484             --           --        866           1,350
   4      BIT        Yan'an Educational College         150      152      101.3     138              5           --         --            143
   5      BNU        Northwest Normal University       1,350     850       63.0     320             40          11          41            412
   6      PKUHSC     Inner-Mongolia Medical            1,040    1,050     100.9    1,000             2           2          46           1,050
                     College
   7      DLUT       Dalian Nationalities Institute    1,560    1,586     101.7     400            196         385         605           1,586
   8      SEU        Yancheng Engineering College      1,400    1,495     106.8      --            125          55          --            180
   9      FDAN       Yunnan University                 1,500    1,460      97.3    1,230            --          30         200           1,460
  10      HIT        Heilongjiang College of Science   1,500    2,184     245.6     253             --           --         --            253
                     &Technology
  11      HUST       Hebei Three Gorges Institute         ?     1,489       ?      799.3           21.6          --         --           820.9
  12      JLU        Jilin Normal College (Beihua      1,431    1,431     100.0     984            100           --        347           1,431
                     University)
  13      JUT        Yanbian University                1,500    1,508     100.5    1,316            --           --        192           1,508
                     Lanzhou Railway Institute;
  14      LZU        Qinghai Normal Univ.; Ningxia     1,824     322       17.6      97             34          16          43            190
                     Univ.; Xinjiang Univ.
  15      NJU        Guangxi Normal University         1,650    1,971     119.4     200             --           --       275.8          475.8
  16      NKAI       Yunnan Normal University          1,450    1,590     109.6     250             43         365          --            658
  17      COU        Liaocheng Teachers' College       1,350    1,600     118.5    1.316           164           --         --           1,480
  18      TSING      Yunnan Univ. of Industry          3,000    3,100     103.3     500            200         400        2,000          3,100
                     (Kunming Univ. of Tech.)
  19      SNNU       Baoji Instit. of Liberal Arts and  125      120       96.1      43             --           --         --
                     Engineering
  20      SJTU       Xinjiang University               2,034    2,050     100.8     800             --         930          --           1,730
  21      SCU        Xichang Agricultural College      1,460    1,145      78.4    1,068            --           --         77           1,145
  22      TJU        Inner-Mongolia Polytechnic        1,440    1,628     113.1     360             --           --         50            410
                     University
  23      WHU        Yunyang Teachers' College         1,370     149       10.9     747            150           --         --            897
  24      XJTU       Ningxia Northwest Second          1,500     954       63.6     300             --          20          --            320
                     Minorities Institute
  25      ZJU        Qinghai University                 191      193      101.5     568             --           --         --            568
  26      CUST       Anhui Normal University           1,500    1,473      98.2     405             35         270          --            710
  27      CUMT       Xuzhou Vocational University      1,320    1,323     100.2     284             22         439         575           1,320
  28      CQU        Chongqing Architecture              --       --        --       --             --           --         --             --
                     University
        TOTAL                                          37,474   37,787    100.8    18,416         1.193        2,923      6,147         28,679
        Average                                         1.44    1.40       97.2    708.3           74.5        243.6      409.8
Source: MOE/FILO ICR, PPIs for PUs, Table 5.




                                                                     - 53 -

Table 9: Partnership Program: Students Served, Teachers Teaching in PIs, Teachers Trained, and Courses & Books Updated.
         Project                              No. of     No. of PU        No. of Teachers    No. of    No. of Updated Courses    No. of Updated
  No.   University                           Students     Teachers      Trained (long-term) Teachers          for PIs           Textbooks in PIs
         (Code)        Partner Institution   served at   despatched           for PIs        Trained
                                              PU Lab     for teaching                        (short-
                                             Experiment    in PIs.       Non-      Degree   term) for Done by        Co-      Done by      Co-
                                              Centers                   Degree                 PIs      PIs       Operative    PIs      Operative
  1      PKU      Inner Mongolia University     315           5            --         9        20        --           --        --          --
   2     BUAA     Guizhou Industry               35           9            --         --       38       130           16       35           7
                  University
   3     USTB     Baotou Iron & Steel            --           --           --        14        22       31            7        49          20
                  College
   4     BIT      Yan'an Educational College     23           7            1          1         4        9            4        11           5
   5     BNU      Northwest Normal               --           68           6         28         3       420           --       470          --
                  University
   6    PKUHSC Inner-Mongolia Medical           2,76          --           3          --        3        4            1         1           1
                  College
   7     DLUT     Dalian Nationalities          635           4            --        11         --      21            10       14          11
                  Institute
   8     SEU      Yancheng Engineering           13           18          10         66        28       54            9        21           6
                  College
   9     FDAN     Yunnan University             610           7            6          --       24       23            5        36           --
  10     HIT      Heilongjiang College of       205           12          15         81        23       60            37       82          41
                  Science & Technology
  11     HUST     Hebei Three Gorges            181           12           6         39        21       30            14       21           7
                  University
  12     JLU      Jilin Normal College          220           2            6         34        18       116           5        139          2
                  (Beihua University)
  13     JUT      Yanbian University             --           6           15         12         5        --           6         --          2
  14     LZU      Lanzhou Railway Institute;
                  Qinghai Normal Univ.;          --           1           18         15        351      42            --        --          --
                  Ningxia Univ.; Xinjiang
                  University
  15     NJU      Guangxi Normal University      --           --          34          3        44       28            10       22           8
  16     NKAI     Yunnan Normal University        6           13          33          3        21        --           --        --          --
  17     COU      Liaocheng Teachers'           344           20           6         10         6       138           --       254          1
                  College
  18     TSING    Yunnan Univ. of Industry       --           8           57         75        34       600           80       250          1
                  (Kunming Univ. of Tech.)
  19     SNNU     Baoji Institute Of Liberal     60           20          25          2        125      160           20       22           8
                  Arts & Engineering
  20     SJTU     Xinjiang University           610           --           3          2         8        7            4        64           8
  21     SCU      Xichang Agricultural         15,000         16           4         11         5       20            --       32           --
                  College
  22     TJU      Inner Mongolia Polytechnic     --           11           2         12        64       50            4        13           2
                  University
  23     WHU      Yunyang Teachers' College     100           3            4          4        22       160           20       200         50
  24     XJTU     Ningxia Northwest Second       --           15           --        25        25       10            --        8           --
                  Minorities Institute
  25     ZJU      Qinghai Unversity              --           2           20         24        11        --           --        --          --
  26     CUST     Anhui Normal University       226           25          31         13         6       98            7        91           6
  27     CUMT     Xuzhou Vocational            21,658         23          302         5        139      73            --       102          --
                  University
  28     CQU      Chongqing Architecture         --           --           --         --        --       --           --        --          --
                  University
 TOTAL                                         42,317        307          604        499      1,071    2,284         259      1,937        186
 Average

Source: MOE/FILO ICR PPIs for PUs, Table 5.




                                                                     - 54 -

Additional Annex 9. Partnership Implementation Issues

Part of the implementation issues stemmed from the fact that the PIs were not included in the project launch
workshop. MOE/FILO, thereby, missed the opportunity to fully apprise them of the purpose and scope of
the partnership program. Some PIs mistook the program to be "charity activities" by the PUs (2004 draft
APR, loc. cit.). The slow start of cooperative activities and the PIs' generally limited autonomy did not
help to mitigate this misperception.

A key step to institutional reform was understanding what autonomy could do to help update/upgrade the
management and administration of academic activities. Generally, PIs being less developed tended to be
more "rule-following" conforming institutions than "rule-breaking" innovative universities. Their staff
qualifications and exposure to modern international developments in higher education were very different
from those of their PU counterparts. While each partnership program had a joint committee to plan,
prioritize and coordinate the development activities following the general partnership guidelines, actual
implementation encountered difficulties arising from fundamental differences between project and partner
institution. For example, USTB reported (ICR, pp. 17-18) that differences in general institutional
orientation and staff and student backgrounds made it difficult for the partner, Baotou Iron and Steel
College (BISC) to participate in the research and other activities in USTB's reform programs in teaching,
curriculum content and course systems. Consequently, USTB adjusted the program to focus on promoting
its reform achievements by sending instructors to BISC to give demonstration lessons, using multimedia
courses and donating courseware to the partner. This had positive results.

Similarly, the original plan to open the new lab centers and library facilities to BISC students was
impracticable because of the distance between the two institutions. Discrepancies in the level of computer
network development between the institutions made it impossible to use the Internet to teach. Instead,
USTB assisted in building a CAD (computer-assisted design) lab in BISC, seating 85 and equipped with
intranet. The lesson from this particular experience was that certain partnership programs tended to be
rather idealistic, and, in certain aspects, such as level of institutional development and readiness for
collaborative research, the feasibility of specific activities was not adequately assessed. The partnership
experience also highlighted the need to be flexible in adapting development programs to particular
institutions.

The slow start of many partnership activities was due to many PUs being preoccupied in the initial project
stage with their own implementation responsibilities. The lack of urgency was compounded by poor
communication between the partners, a condition which the Chinese Expert Panel (CEP) described as the
"weak link" in the program. Other problems included changes in PU personnel responsible for the program
and "arbitrary" changing of partnership plans (CEP, "Work Review and Evaluation Report [WREP]",
dated October 25, 2005, p. 7). The Panel, which closed each year's work with a conference convened by
MOE to review implementation problems, addressed the various issues as they visited individual
institutions. The accumulated implementation experience from the inspection visits provided the basis for a
conference convened by the Panel in March 2004 in Yunnan University where the issues described above
were resolved in part to smooth the way for the continuation and possible expansion of the partnership
program in the post-completion period. Perhaps the most challenging issue was the fact that traditional
universities with vertical organization and hierarchical management were suddenly expected to establish
lateral or horizontal communication and interaction.




                                                       - 55 -

Additional Annex 10. Policy-Based Research Studies

Developing a System for Quality Assessment

The study yielded five sub-reports dealing with various aspects of quality assurance: (i) policy
recommendations; (ii) proposal for an evaluation system; (iii) developing mechanisms for an evaluation
system; (iv) developing an information system through a database on key indicators and evaluation experts;
and (v) a comparative study of evaluation systems in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.

Outcomes of the study included: (i) establishment and implementation from 2003 of a five-year evaluation
cycle; (ii) establishment of a system of a regular collection of data on undergraduate programs which would
eventually be published; (iii) establishment of an evaluation agency under MOE; (iv) positive feedback
from higher education institutions on the current evaluation system; and (v) development of a pool of
evaluation experts and a task force for future undertakings.

Key indicators of quality included seven primary and 18 secondary indicators and 38 "observation points".
They are used together to monitor and evaluate three key aspects of higher education: (i) operating
conditions of higher education institutions; (ii) the teaching-learning process; and (iii) institutional
efficiency. The seven primary indicators deal with teaching staff, the curriculum, relative emphases on
science and arts, campus culture, student achievement/performance (e.g., in language proficiency, computer
skills, etc.), and employment outcome of graduates.

Some necessary follow-up action included: (i) further improvement of the evaluation system by completing
the relevant studies; (ii) extension of the evaluation system from its original conception as an external
mechanism to an internally-motivated, self-generating agency; and (iii) development of evaluation
specialists to carry out all key aspects of evaluation. Since the inception of the five-year evaluation
process, higher education institutions were preparing to review and institutionalize it. There were also
plans, based on comparative analyses, to move towards the establishment of an independent evaluation
agency, but no further information was available at EOP. Also, there was no reference to private tertiary
institutions.

Establishment of a Textbook Renewal Mechanism

The rationale for the study was the lack of an effective mechanism for textbook renewal for higher
education and the need to establish a [new] mechanism in line with reforms in other sectors of the economy.
The three sub-studies were on: (i) the textbook renewal mechanism in the socialist market economy and in
the present situation; (ii) recommendations on textbook development and reforms under the 10th Five-Year
Plan; and (iii) a textbook evaluation system for higher education textbooks, especially in science,
engineering, agriculture, medicine, humanities and the social sciences. The study entailed an extensive
survey made through seminars, questionnaire surveys for teachers and non-teachers, public opinion
solicitation, and topic workshops. A general summary report, based on 11 articles prepared by the research
team in 2002, was published in 2003.

Five recommendations for a textbook renewal mechanism included the following: (i) re-definition of GOC's
role and strengthening the role of publishers and publishing groups through decentralization of the
responsibility for textbook development; (ii) increasing the choice of textbooks for various subjects to meet
the need for multiple sets of learning materials; (iii) introduction of competition and incentives for open
bids in the development of textbooks; (iv) exercising overall quality assurance by developing and applying
appropriate indicators and establishing appropriate (social) institutions for textbook monitoring and
evaluation; and (v) further diversification of textbook provision by developing electronic teaching-learning
materials.




                                                      - 56 -

The recommendations were adopted by MOE, and some of the ideas were being implemented. Many higher
education institutions had replaced the textbook single-choice with a multiple-choice system. For example,
in Qinghua University, over 30% of courses use multiple textbooks. Dissemination of the
recommendations had been carried out through workshops. A follow-up for extending the textbook
evaluation system was the establishment of a web-based feed-back system.

Managerial Autonomy of Higher Education Institutions

The study was carried out in three phases. The first phase, a year-long exercise to design the study,
involved a general survey and analysis of the present higher education management system in China and
selected foreign universities. The result was the design of a framework for higher education institutional
reforms, with some pilot programs implemented in the universities and educational administrative
organizations. In the second phase, when reforms were introduced in 2000, it became clear that
institutional autonomy could not be achieved without a major restructuring of the system. During this
phase, about 100 of the 200 institutions were taken over by the provincial authorities and the remainder
remained under MOE. The third phase, when the actual study was carried out, was completed in mid-2003
and the draft report was reviewed in mid-2004.

Issues arising from the study included: (i) the legacy of public ownership of higher education institutions
and its attendant problems; (ii) the need to moderate the current centralized control with increased
decentralization to promote institutional autonomy; (iii) the need to recognize that institutional reforms
must be carried out within the framework of political reform; and (iv) the existing internal administrative
mechanisms might hinder reforms. Factors that hindered autonomy included the lack of: (a) an efficient
mechanism for resource allocation; (b) institutional responsibility and accountability; and (c) management
authority for hiring and firing staff. However, the existing system of centralized financial control enabled
the authorities to set national priorities. There was a need to dispel the misperception outside China that
GOC was still trying to retain central control, whereas the policy was actually to decentralize. Two key
recommendations were to privatize some of the public higher education institutions, and restructure
resource allocation so as to give greater autonomy to institutions. Information on the outcome of the
recommendations was not available at EOP.

Graduate Tracer Study

The model for this study was developed by Shanghai Jiaotong University and tested in all project
institutions. A general survey was first carried out of various existing tracer systems or studies used by
higher education institutions (e.g., through their respective alumni associations). The plan was to develop,
on completion of the survey, a questionnaire and a software for a student tracking system. By early 2004,
the study had accomplished three tasks: (i) a survey of graduate employment, with information from
employers, had been carried out during the previous three years; (ii) the contents of the tracking system had
been reviewed to identify/formalize the key indicators; (iii) and software was being developed for
implementing the survey of graduates and employers. The study was completed in July 2004. The results
of the evaluation that followed the study were integrated into the present evaluation system. While no
formal report was issued, several PUs reported results from their own surveys. The findings of two PUs
have been cited (para. 4.2 (a) (i) above). Additional information was provided by HUST, ICR pp. 26;
HIT, ICR pp. 23-24. For further details, see MOE/FILO ICR, Annex 4.

Assessment of Higher Education Financial Management

The findings of the study, which was completed and the report reviewed in 2003, confirmed that the
existing financial management system was appropriate in the context of current reforms. The software,
designed for the study had been tested and fulfilled MOE standards, was developed for use by higher



                                                      - 57 -

education institutions. It contained 38 key indicators to monitor and evaluate financial management.

The key indicators, developed with MOE involvement and participation of university financial management
staff, were divided into three groups. The first group, comprising eight indicators, measured the
institution's financial strength; the second group, comprising 18 indicators, evaluated institutional
efficiency; and the third group, comprising 12 indicators, assessed the institution's development potential
and risks. The key indicators dealt with the following: (i) total income of the system to be measured; (ii)
operational efficiency (e.g., teacher-student ratios expenditure on equipment per student, expenditure for
faculty research, etc.); and (iii) risks, such as loans/borrowings by institutions, year-end balances,
expenditure versus income, fixed assets versus liabilities, etc.

Following a trial run in Hebei Province to test its effectiveness, the software was being used by 76
institutions under MOE. Several publications affirmed that the assessment system was being applied to
various universities affiliated to the Ministry of National Defense, MOE and the Hubei Provincial
Government.




                                                       - 58 -

Additional Annex 11. Development of Textbooks and Electronic Materials

The MOE target was for the project to produce 400 textbooks on 200 basic courses (PAD, dated April 14,
1999, p. 39). To achieve this, the universities were invited to bid on a competitive basis for contracts to
develop courses following MOE/HED guidelines and write textbooks based on the revised courses. The
competitive bidding initiated in July 1999, the first of its kind in China, elicited by early 2000, 963
proposals from over 320 universities, of which 773 were for science and engineering and 190 for medical
sciences. By end-June 2000, a 120 expert-member review panel approved 333 proposals from 170 higher
education institutions from 31 provinces, regions and municipalities, using criteria based on guidelines in
an open, transparent manner. A significant development was the phenomenon of joint-university proposals
(e.g., Fudan, Tsinghua and Zhejiang universities submitted a successful joint bid), a reflection of the
emergence of independent lateral institutional cooperation. Equally significant was that 22% of the
successful bids were from universities in the disadvantaged western parts of China. Thus, the awards
contributed to the central government's Western Development Initiative (Aide Memoire, Supervision
Mission, September 2000, para. 22). Under MOE's leadership, the project universities succeeded in
developing and implementing new curricula, textbooks, teaching-learning methods for undergraduate core
foundation, compulsory and elective courses which are supported by a variety of multimedia software. The
achievements were complemented by the establishment/renovation of science and engineering laboratory
centers and language and audiovisual learning centers, and the provision of new equipment.

The reformed undergraduate curriculum typically consisted of required common basic, specialized
compulsory and optional courses, general education optional courses, and common optional courses.
During the Bank review missions in 2004 and 2005, interviews with students indicated that the reformed
curricula were well received by them. At the same time, project universities in varying degrees had
facilitated the application of modern educational technology to teaching-learning, introducing multimedia
into courses where conditions were appropriate. At EOP, 4,203 key courses had been updated and 6,827
textbooks renewed or developed, approximately 126% and 157% respectively, of the targets. At the same
time, there were 9,434 examination-reformed courses, 120% of the project target. (For details, see Annex
1, key performance indicators under Component 1, and MOE/FILO PPI, Table 2).

The development of modern instructional technology was supported by computer-assisted instruction (CAI)
development teams responsible for directing and coordinating software design and production. In the more
advanced universities, web-based international distance-learning courses were being developed. For
example, the PKUHSC had completed the development of 17 pre-clinical and nine clinical courses that
could be accessed through the Internet. At the same time, the leading universities, such as PKU and
DLUT, had increased the proportion of courses delivered in English or bilingually (English-Chinese) as
part of the strategy to further internationalize higher education in China.

While the reforms were focused on the teaching-learning in the first two years, attention was also given to
the development of specialty courses at the third and fourth years of the academic program. Students were
free to select courses within the framework of the academic program which, in varying degrees, involved
laboratory experimental research aimed at cultivating undergraduates' capacity for innovation. Generally,
the new and renovated science and engineering laboratories, equipped with the latest equipment, provided
the necessary enabling environment for the reforms which involved the renewal or revision of subject
matter, teaching-learning and evaluation methods, in both basic and advanced courses.




                                                      - 59 -

Other learning centers provided important logistical support for the reformed teaching-learning methods.
Advances in the development and application of new technologies and multimedia facilitated improvements
in foreign language education. Many young instructors had, on their own initiative, introduced important
reforms in foreign language teaching-learning methods through the application of multimedia. This led to
an increased interest among students in foreign languages. The establishment of multimedia and
audio-visual centers in many project universities helped to stimulate reform in using English in bilingual
teaching. For example, the Peking UniversityAudio-Visual Education Center provides facilities for foreign
language education to over 1,200 undergraduates and graduates, and nearly 10,000 undergraduates and
graduates of 19 faculties of the School of International Studies. All project universities were involved in
the development of conventional textbooks as well as electronic textbooks and CAI course materials.




                                                    - 60 -

Additional Annex 12. Lanzhou University Student Loan Pilot Scheme

Funded by a PHRD grant of US$100,000 (RMB 830,000, which MOE/FILO erroneously assumed was
part of World Bank project funding), the Student Loan Pilot Scheme was launched in November 1999, and
the funds were disbursed by the end of December 1999. The longest term was nine years; the shortest, six
years. As the table below shows, rural students and ethnic minority students were the major beneficiaries
of the scheme. The loans contributed to the successful completion of their higher education. Although the
scheme was designed specifically for students to repay after graduation when they were employed, the
majority of borrowers repaid their loans before graduation.

         Undergraduate population: 7,965                Loan Applications            Loan Approvals
                                                         No.             %          No.           %
          Applicants                                    1,413          18.4          614         43.4
          Female Students                               1,378          17.9         105          17.1
          Ethnic Minority                                419           5.4           37           6.0
          Students
          Rural Students                                5,920          76.9         524          85.3
          Science Students                              4,765          61.9         439          71.5
 Source: Lanzhou University Completion Report, pp. 16-17.

Of those who received the loans at 2% per annum interest charge, students of 1999 comprised 94.3%, those
of 1998, 33.4%, and those of 1997, 7.4%. The average loan amount was RMB 1,000 ­ 2,000. Of all the
approved applicants, 28 (4.6%) took a loan of less than 7 years; 153 (24.9%), of 8 years, and 433 (70.5%),
of 9 years.

Loan Repayment and Revolving Fund. All the 28 students of 1997 cohort paid off their loans before
graduation (July 2001); recovery was 100%. Of the 1998 cohort, 113 of the 153 students paid off before
graduation (July 2002); thus, recovery was 74%. Of the 1999 cohort, 433 students paid off before
graduation (July 2003). Up to July 2005, 518 students had paid off their loans; the recovery was 84%. By
July 2005, RMB 707,000 (including RMB 23,000 interest) had been recovered. As the amount recovered
was relatively small, the university, in order to save on administrative costs, merged the recovery loans into
the Lanzhou University Special-Purpose Interest-Free Loans for the revolving loan fund, with the intention
of using the funds independently for the revolving applications when the loans were fully recovered.
(Lanzhou University Completion Report, p. 17.) The report did not explain why students who took the
loans repaid them before their graduation. One assumption is that loan repayment was a condition for
graduation. If indeed students had no option but to repay their loans before graduation, the apparent
outcome did not prove or disprove the pilot project's assumption that some students might prefer to take an
interest-bearing loan which could be repaid after graduation when they were employed. Without a detailed
analysis, there appeared to be no basis for any policy recommendation. (For additional information, see
MOE/FILO ICR Annex 1.)




                                                     - 61 -

Additional Annex 13. List of Project Universities and Partner Institutions


                         Project University                                                                    Partner Institution
   No.                         Name                       Code           Location &                   Name                       Location & Province
                                                                         Jurisdiction
   1501    Peking University                            PKU           Beijing, MOE         Inner Mongolia University           Hohhot, Inner Mongolia
   1502    Beijing Univ. of Aeronautics &               BUAA          Ministry of Natl.    Guizhou Industrial University       Guiyang,
           Astronautics                                               Sc. & Industry                                           Guizhou
   1503    Beijing Univ. of S &T (Univ of S & T         BUST          Beijing, MOE         Baotou Iron & Steel College         Baotou,
           Beijing)                                     (USTB)
   1504    Beijing Institute of Technology              BIT           Ministry of Natl.    Yan'an Educational College          Yan'an,
                                                                      Sc. & Industry                                           Shaanxi
   1505    Beijing Normal University                    BNU           Beijing, MOE         Northwest Normal University         Xi'an,
                                                                                                                               Shaanxi
   1506    Peking University Health Science Center*     PKUHSC        Ministry of Public   Inner Mongolia Medical College      Hohhot, Inner
                                                                      Health                                                   Mongolia
   1507    Dalian University of Technology              DLUT          MOE                  Dalian Nationalities Institute      Dalian,
                                                                                                                               Liaoning
   1508    Southeast University                         SEU           MOE                  Yancheng Engineering College        Yancheng,
                                                                                                                               Jiangsu
   1509    Fudan University                             FDAN          MOE                  Yunnan University                   Kunming,
                                                                                                                               Yunnan
   1510    Harbin Institute of Technology               HIT           Ministry of Natl.    Heilongjiang College of Science &   Heilongjiang
                                                                      Sc. & Industry       Technology
   1511    Huazhong Institute of Technology             HUST          MOE                  Hubei Three Gorges Institute        Hubei
   1512    Jilin University                             JLU           MOE                  Beihua University                   Changchun,
                                                                                                                               Jilin
   1513    Jilin Univ.of Tech. **                       JUT           MOE                  Yanbian University                  Jilin
   1514    Lanzhou University                           LZU           MOE                 Guizhou Normal Univ; Lanzhou         Lanzhou,
                                                                                          Rly. Institute; Xinjiang University; Guizhou
                                                                                          Ningxia University
   1515    Nanjing University                           NJU           MOE                  Guangxi Normal University           Guiling,
                                                                                                                               Guangxi
   1516    Nankai University                            NKAI          MOE                  Yunnan Normal University            Kunming,
                                                                                                                               Yunnan
   1517    China Ocean University                       COU           MOE                  Liaocheng Teachers' College         Liaocheng,
                                                                                                                               Shandong
   1518    Tsinghua University                          TSING         MOE                  Kunming Univ. of Technology         Kunming,
                                                                                                                               Yunnan
   1519    Shaanxi Normal University                    SNNU          MOE                  Baoji College of Arts &             Baoji, Shaanxi
                                                                                           Science***
   1520    Shanghai Jiaotong University                 SJTU          MOE                  Xinjiang University                 Urumqi,
                                                                                                                               Xinjiang
   1521    Sichaun University                           SCU           MOE                  Xichang Agric.ultural College       Xichang
   1522    Tianjin University                           TJU           MOE                  Inner Mongolia Polytechnic          Hohhot, Inner
                                                                                           University.                         Mongolia
   1523    Wuhan University                             WHU           MOE                  Hubei-Yunyang Teachers' College     Yunyang,
                                                                                                                               Hubei
   1524    Xi'an Jiaotong University                    XJTU          MOE                  Ningxia Northwest Second            Yinchuan,
                                                                                           Minorities Institute                Ningxia
   1525    Zhejiang University                          ZJU           MOE                  Qinghai University                  Xining,
                                                                                                                               Qinghai
   1526    China University of Science & Technology     CUST          China Acad. of       Anhui Normal University             Wuhu, Anhui
                                                                      Science
   1527    Mining and Technology University China       MTUC          State Bureau of      Xuzhou Engineering Institute        Xuzhou City,
           (China Univ. of Mining and Technology)                     Coal Industry                                            Jiangsu
                                                        (CUMT)
   1528    Chongqing University                         CQU           MOE                  Chongqing Architecture University   Chongqing;
                                                                                                                               Chongqing
                                                                                                                               Municipality
* Formerly Beijing Medical University. ** Merged with Jilin University, June 2000.
*** Formerly Institute of Liberal Arts & Engineering.




                                                                     - 62 -

- 63 -

