CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1257 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(COPEL Power Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA PARANAENSE DE ENERGIA
EL2TRICA - COPEL
Dated May 19, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and COMPANHIA PARANAENSE DE ENERGIA ELETRICA - COPEL (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
0


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Apolicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "State" means the State of Parana of the Guarantor, or
any succes, ',r thereto;
(b) "Eletrobrgs" means Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.
ELETROBRAS, a sociedade de economia mista of the Guarantor or
any successor thereto;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the State and the Bank, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(d) "Expansion Program" means the Borrower's expansion
program for its generating, transmission and distribution facil-
ities during the period 1975-1980, comprising of the following:


﻿-3 -
(i) Generation: construction of the Foz do Areia
hydroelectric power station (3-375 MW), includ-
ing step-up power substation;
(ii) Transmission: installation of about 448
circuit-km at 230 kV, and 585 km at 138 kV,
including additional transformer capacity of
950 MVA at 230 kV, and 410 MVA at 138 kV;
(iii) Subtransmission and Distribution: installation
of about 383 circuit-km at 69 kV, 1,070 km at
34.5 kV and 13.8 kV, 390 MVA at 69 kV, 80 MVA
at 34.5 kV, and low voltage distribution ex-
pansion; and
(iv) Communications and Control: expansion of com-
munications and telemetering system facilities
and equipment;
(e) "Global Guarantee Fund" means the Reserva Global de
Garantia of the Guarantor, established by Decreto-Lei No. 1383
of December 26, 1974 of the Guarantor, and regulated by Portaria
No. 365, of March 25, 1975, of the Guarantor's Minister of Mines
and Energy, to supplement, when necessary, the revenues obtained
by the electric power companies in Brazil from the sale of elec-
tricity, in order to ensure the economic and financial equili-
brium of such companies;
(f) "Eletrobras Undertaking" means Eletrobras' assurance,
contained in its letter to the Bank dated March 31, 1976, that


﻿Eletrobrgs will build or cause to be built, a 500 kV transmission
system between Foz do Areia and Curitiba;
(g) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement (Power
Distribution Program) dated December 19, 1966, between the Bank
and Companhia Forga e Luz do Parang (absorbed by the Borrower)
for Loan 476 BR; and
(h) "Prior Guarantee Agreement" means the Guarantee Agree-
ment (Power Distribution Program) dated December 17, 1966, be-
tween the Guarantor and the Bank for Loan 476 BR.


﻿* -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-
two million dollars ($52,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for exrendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-6                                      0
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08..The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿* -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrowe-r shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with aporopriate
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ engi-
neering consultants whose qualifications, exrerience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall promptly furnish to
the Bank, upon request, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 8 -
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the fa-
cilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, prop-
erty and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land,
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish, at the Bank's request, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower undertakes: (i) to carry out,
starting not later than October 1, 1976, or such other date as
the Bank shall agree, a program to provide electricity services
to low-income consumers, which shall include the financing of the
charges for electricity connections to such consumers' dwellings,


﻿*)                                     -9-
such financing to be repayable in at least 36 months and to be free
of interest and any other charges; and (ii) to consult with the
State urban development agencies on the selection of such program
areas before putting such program into effect.
As used in this Section, the term "low-income consumers"
means such potential consumers as are living on the date of this
Agreement near existing distribution circuits in the Borrower's
concession area, who are not served with electricity because of
their inability to pay for connection charges.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all reasonable measures to ensure that the Project is carried out
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to ensure the timely operation (estimated on the date of this
Agreement to be by December 31, 1980) of the Foz do Areia hydro-
electric power station.


﻿- 10-                                     0
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on its operations, and
shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.02. The Borrower ihall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and property, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering and public utility practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, maintain its financial position,
and plan the future expansion of its electric power system, all
in accordance with appropriate business, financial and public
utility practices and under the supervision of experienced and com-
petent management.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate public utility practices.
40


﻿ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such score and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and finan-
cial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower reoresents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt, except as disclosed in writing to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as securilty for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and


﻿- 12 -
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on.any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing pro-
visions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) obtain title to all goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan free and clear of all encumbrances; and (ii)
not sell or otherwise dispose of, or permit the sale or disposal
of, any of the property or assets which shall be required for the
efficient carrying on of its business and undertaking, including
the Project, unless the Borrower shall first pay, or make adequate
provision satisfactory to the Bank for payment of, all of the Loan
which shall then be outstanding and unpaid; provided, however,
that the Borrower may sell or otherwise dispose of, or permit the
sale or disposal of, any property which shall have become obsolete,
worn-out or unnecessary for use in its plant.
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not, until the Project shall have been completed,
undertake, or permit to be undertaken on its behalf, any major


﻿-13 -
expansion project, other than the Expansion Program, unless it
has first furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that (i) such expansion project is economically justified; (ii)
the Borrower will have adequate financial resources for the carry-
ing out of such expansion project; and (iii) such expansion proj-
ect, in the case of a power generation or transmission project,
is in accordance with plans for power generation and transmission
approved by Eletrobras for the southeast and south regions of
Brazil.
For the purposes of this Section, a "major expansion project"
shall be deemed to be a project or acquisition of new assets the
aggregate cost of which shall be in excess of the equivalent of
two per cent (2%) in-the case of generation and transmission proj-
ects, and one per cent (1%) in the case of distribution projects,
of gross fixed assets in operation plus work-in-progress of the
Borrower.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall take all such action (including, in
such cases where automatic rate adjustments are not permitted, action
with respect to the filing, within a period of not more than five
months after the end of every calendar year, of appropriate appli-
cations in respect of rates) as shall be necessary or advisable to:
Ci) cause the Borrower's rates for the sale of electricity to be set
and maintained at such levels as will produce revenues, as provided
by the legislation of the Guarantor in effect on the date of this


﻿- 14
Agreement, sufficient to ensure the continued operation of the Bor-
rower's business in accordance with annropriate financial and public
utility practices, using straight-line depreciation which shall be
not less than that based on the useful lives of denreciable assets
in operation; and (ii) enable the agency or agencies of the Guar-
antor responsible for the setting and adjustment of such rates to
act promptly in respect thereof;
(b) the Borrower shall, as provided by the legislation of the
Guarantor, revalue its assets at least once every calendar year and
apply for the corresponding rate adjustments; and
(c) vhenever it shall be necessary or advisable for the
Borrower to receive transfers of funds from the Global Guarantee
Fund to supplement its revenues in order to achieve the objective
set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
take all necessary steps to maintain its eligibility to such trans-
fers of funds.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt (i) if after the incurrence of
such debt, the debt of the Borrower shall exceed 66-2/3% of the
value of its total fixed assets; and (ii) with an original term of
less than eight years if at the time of such incurrence the total
outstanding principal of such debt (including the debt proposed
to be incurred but excluding any debt to be repaid out of the pro-
ceeds thereof) shall exceed 5% of the Borrower's total fixed assets.


﻿*                                     - 15 -
For the purposes of this Section:
(1) the term "debt" means any outstanding debt maturing by
its terms after one year from the date on which it is
incurred;
(2) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date and
to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and
outstanding pursuant to such loan agreement, and (B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but
only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstand-
ing;
(3) the term "total fixed assets" means gross fixed assets in
operation less the reserve for depreciation and amortiza-
tion, plus the cost of construction work-in-progress, all
such items to be revalued on the basis of the latest ap-
plicable official revaluation coefficients; and
(4) whenever it shall be necessary to value in terms of cur-
rency of the Guarantor debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the pre-
vailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt.


﻿16
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the State shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of the State under the Project Agreement;
(b) a substantial change in the Borrower's Estatutos shall
have been made without the agreement of the Bank;
(c) a change in the legislation of the Guarantor shall have
occurred, which shall materially and adversely affect the carrying
on of the Borrower's business or the setting or adjustment of the
Borrower's rates for the sale of electricity at such levels as shall
be necessary to provide the Borrower with revenues sufficient to
ensure the continued operation of its business in accordance with
appropriate financial and public utility practices; provided,
however, that to the extent that such revenues shall not be suffi-
cient for the purpose, transfers of funds from the Global Guaran-
tee Fund may be made by the Guarantor to the Borrower in order to
supplement such revenues.
For the purpose of this paragraph, the term "change in the
legislation of the Guarantor" shall mean any change (including, but
without limitation, any amendment or repeal of, or failure to carry


﻿-17 -
out or enforce, any such legislation) in the entire body of legis-
lation of the Guarantor (including, but without limitation, all
constitutional provisions, statutes, laws, decree-laws, executive
decrees and regulations and any other legal provisions of a similar
nature) directly or indirectly relating to the carrying on of the
Borrower's business and the determination and adjustment of the
Borrower's rates for the sale of electricity; and
(d) Eletrobras shall have failed to comply with the Eletro-
bras Unklertaking.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (d) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and the State; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 18                                        0
ARTTCLE VII
Amendment to Prior Loan Agreement
Section 7.01. The Prior Loan Agreement is hereby amended as
follows:
(a) by introducing a paragraph (c) in Section 5.15 thereof
containing the same provisions of paragraph (c) of Section 5.06
of this Agreement; and
(b) by substituting the nrovisions of Sections 5.07 and
6.01 (c) of this Agreement for those of Sections 5.16 and 6.02
(b), respectively, of the Prior Loan Agreement.
is


﻿-19 -
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of the State have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental action; and
(b) the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the State
and is legally binding upon the State in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil; and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Guarantor, the State, their political
subdivisions or agencies, or otherwise to be performed or given


﻿- 20 -                                  0
in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to en-
able the Borrower to perform all of the obligations of the Bor-
rover in this Agreement contained (including the obligations
thereof relating to procurement of goods for the Project) together
with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith,
have been duly and validly performed or given and that no other
such acts, consents or approvals are required in order to autho-
rize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower
to perform all of the obligations of the Borrower in this Agree-
ment contained.
Section 8.03. The date August 19, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-21 -
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cab"  -tdress:                     Telexes:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
Companhia Paranaense de
Energia El'trica
Rua Cel. Dulcidio, 800
80000 - Curitiba - Parang
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
COPEL                              (041) 5178 and
Curitiba                           (041) 5286


﻿- 22 -                                   0
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gunter K. Wiese
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
COMPANHIA PARANAENSE DE ENERGIA
ELETRICA - COPEL
By /s/ Arturo Andreoli
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Edson Neves Guimaraes
Authorized Representative


﻿-23 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the perientage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Electrical equip-         44,330,000          100% of foreign
ment and materials                            expenditures or
100% of the ex-
factory price of
domestically-
manufactured
goods
(2) Consultants' ser-            370,000          100% of foreign
vices                                        expenditures
(3) Training                     300,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Unallocated                7,000,000
TOTAL     52,000,000


﻿-24-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other than
the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the terri-
tory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the impor-
tation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Not1*ithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Cate-
gory, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, pro-
ceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other ex-


﻿-25 -
penditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel ouch amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program for the expansion
of its power subtransmission and distribution systems during the
years 1976 through 1979 and consists of:
Part A.   For its subtransmission system:
(1) installation of about 50 circuit-km of 138 kV tie lines;
(2) construction, expansion or improvement of nine 138 kV
substations, including addition of 305 MVA transformer
capacity; and
(3) installation of about 390 MVA transformer capacity at
69 kV and of about 80 MVA transformer capacity at 34.5 kV.
Part B.   For its distribution system:
(1) installation of about (i) 166 circuit-km of 69 kV line
extensions; (ii) 4,560 transformers (13.8 kV/220-120v)
and about 200 transformers (34.5 kV/220-120v), with an
aggregate capacity of about 260 MVA; (iii) 130 km of
13.8 kV feeders; (iv) 1,040 km of line extensions at
34.5 kV and about 860 km of line extensions at 13.8 kV;
(v) 3,100 new 34.5 kV and 13.8 kV circuits (average
length of 340 m); (vi) 124,700 single phase meters
and about 20,300 polyphase meters; and (vii) 135,000
street lights;


﻿-27 -
(2) improvement of about 1,630 existing 34.5 kV and 13.8
kV circuits (average length of 340 m); and
(3) replacement of about 75,000 single phase meters and
about 10,000 polyphase meters.
Part C.   For its ancillary facilities:
(1) expansion of meter laboratory facilities and equipment;
and
(2) acquisition and utilization of additional and supple-
mentary transmission and subtransmission maintenance
and operation equipment, including energized-line main-
tenance and system protection and operation equipment.
Part D.   Inspection of equipment fabrication, through the utili-
zation of consultants' services, and training of staff
during such inspection.
*              *            e
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿- 28 -                                0
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (exnressed in dollars)*
February 15, 1980                                   745,000
August 15, 1980                                     785,000
February 15, 1981                                   810,000
August 15, 1981                                     850,000
February 15, 1982                                   885,000
August 15, 1982                                     925,000
February 15, 1983                                   960,000
August 15, 1983                                   1,005,000
February 15, 1984                                 1,045,000
August 15, 1984                                   1,090,000
February 15, 1985                                 1,135,000
August 15, 1985                                   1,185,000
February 15, 1986                                 1,235,000
August 15, 1986                                   1,285,000
February 15, 1987                                 1,340,000
August 15, 1987                                   1,400,ooo
February 15, 1988                                 1,46o,ooo
August 15, 1988                                   1,520,000
February 15, 1989                                 1,585,000
August 15, 1989                                   1,650,000
February 15, 1990                                 1,725,000
August 15, 1990                                   1,795,000
February 15, 1991                                 1,870,000
August 15, 1991                                   1,955,000
February 15, 1992                                 2,035,000
August 15, 1992                                   2,120,000
February 15, 1993                                 2,210,000
August 15, 1993                                   2,305,000
February 15, 1994                                 2,405,000
August 15, 1994                                   2,505,000
February 15, 1995                                 2,610,000
August 15, 1995                                   2,725,000
February 15, 1996                                 2,845,000
* To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 29 -
Premiums on PreDayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable
on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal
amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the General
Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium*
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                    7-1/2%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%
*    Given as an indication only and based on an assumed rate of
interest of 8-1/2% per annum. The final table will reflect
the interest rate in effect at the time the Loan is approved
by the Board of Executive Directors of the Bank.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, the goods shall be pro-
cured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one well-
known technical magazine of wide international circulation in
sufficient time before bids are to be opened to enable prospective
bidders to request bidding documents and prepare bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Special standardized metering and system protection equip-
ment may be procured through negotiated contracts, provided that
the aggregate value of such contracts shall not exceed the equiva-
lent of $2,600,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs


﻿-31 -
duties and other import taxes on imported goods (including merchant
fleet renewal and port improvement taxes), and sales and similar
taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii)
the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of pre-
ference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pre-
ference and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the comparison of bids.
(b) Responsive bids will be classified in one of the following
two groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that such goods
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to
at least 50% of the value of the complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import


﻿- 32                                  0
taxes (including the merchant fleet renewal and port improvement
taxes) on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of each group
shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of
this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding: (i) to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group B bid, for the purpose of this further com-
parison only, an amount equal to (A) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to
pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid,
or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price; and (ii) to the ex-
factory bid price of the domestically supplied goods offered in
each group B bid an amount equal to (A) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which would be levied on such goods if they
originated from the same foreign country as the goods included in
a group B bid which enjoy the lowest customs duties and other im-
port taxes, or (B) 15% of the ex-factory price of such goods if
said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award; if not, the bid from group B which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evalu-
ated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 33 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
* modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


