CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1257 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(COPEL Power Distribution Project)
between
STATE OF PARANA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 19, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 1976, between STATE OF PARANA (here-
inafter called the State) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Companhia Paranaense de Energia Eletrica - COPEL
(hereinafter called the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to fifty-two million dollars ($52,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement and in a Guarantee Agreement
of even date herewith between the Federative Republic of Brazil
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and the Bank, but only on condi-
As,    tion that the State agree to undertake certain obligations toward
New   the Bank as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the State warrants and represents that it is author-
ized under the laws of the State to undertake the obligations con-
tained in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and into the Guarantee
Agreement with the Guarantor, has agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
Section 1. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context
shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the res-
pective meanings therein set forth.
Section 2. The State shall (i) take all such reasonable action
as shall be necessary to enable the Borrower to carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency, including the provision of funds
as are required on the State's part therefor; and (ii) not take or
cause or permit any of its agencies to take any action which would
prevent or interfere with the performance by the Borrower of its
covenants, agreements and obligations contained in the Loan Agree-
ment.
Section 3. Without limitation or restriction upon the provi-
sions of Section 2 of this Agreement, the State specifically un-
dertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the
funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project,
to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide
the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds
as are needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 4. The State shall provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided, promptly as needed, with such funds as
are required on the State's part to ensure the timely operation
(estimated on the date of this Agreement to be by December 31,
1980) of the Foz do Areia hydroelectric power station.


﻿-3-
Section 5. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
State shall reinvest in capital stock of the Borrower all cash
dividends paid to the State by the Borrower until at least
the Closing Date.
Section 6. The State shall cause its agencies in charge of
urban development to render the necessary assistance to the Bor-
rover, when requested by it, as provided for in Section 3.06 (ii)
of the Loan Agreement.
Section 7. (a) The State shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, the progress of the Project and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes, or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by the State of its obligations under this Agree-
ment.
Section 8. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 9. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of the State thereunder shall terminate when the Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms and the Bank shall
notify the State thereof.


﻿-4-
Section 10. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
K
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the State:
Governo do Estado do Parana
Secretaria de Estado das Financas
Rua Dr. Murici, 915
80.000 - Curitiba - Parana
Brazil
Cable address:
Secretaria das Finanjas
Curitiba, Brazil


﻿-5-
Section 11. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the State may be taken or executed by the
Secretary of Finance or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing.
Section 12. The State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the State, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by the State pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 13. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
STATE OF PARANA
By /s/ Arturo Andreoli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gunter K. Wiese
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


