                                            Document of
                                         The World Bank

                                  FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                             ReportNo: 34179 GE




                             PROJECT APPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                               ONA

                                      PROPOSEDGRANT

                           INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR3.5 MILLION
                                (US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                TO

                                            GEORGIA

                                             FORAN

             WRASTRUCTURE PRE-INVESTMENT FACILITY PROJECT


                                         January 19,2006




InfrastructureDepartment
South Caucasus CountryUnit
Europe and CentralAsia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective December, 2005)


                          Currency Unit = Georgian Lari (GEL)
                                 1GEL = US$0.5579
                               US$1.0 = 1.7925 GEL
                            US$1.4347    = SDR 1
                                 1GEL = SDR0.39

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1  -      December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AP      Agreed Procedures
BEEPS   Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
CQ      Consultant Qualification
CQS     Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications
EBRD    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
EDPRP   Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Program
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EMF     Environmental Management Framework
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
EMSP    Electricity Market Support Project
FBS     Fixed Budget Selection
FMS     Financial Management Systems
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GEL     Georgian Lari
GoG     Government o f Georgia
GWh     Giga Watt Hour
GR      Georgian Railways
I C     Individual Consultant
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     InternationalDevelopment Association
IOC     Incremental Operating Costs
IPF     Infrastructure Pre-InvestmentFacility
kWh     Kilo Watt Hour
LCS     Least Cost Selection
M C C   MillenniumChallenge Corporation
MoE     Ministry of Energy

 MoED      Ministry o f Economic Development
 M o F     Ministry o fFinance
 NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
 PAS       Procurement Accredited Staff
 PIU       Project Implementation Unit
 PDO       Project Development Objective
 POM       Project Operational Manual
 PP        Procurement Plan
 PPF       Project PreparationFacility
 PPIAF     Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
 PRSO      Poverty Reduction Support Operation
 PSO       Project Service Organization
 QCBS      Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
 QBS       Quality-Based Selection
 RDMED     Roads Department o fthe Ministry o f Economic Development
 RFP       Request for Proposals
 SF        Safeguard Framework
 SIA       Social Impact Assessment
 SOE       Statements o f Expenditures
 T A       Technical Assistance
 TAL       Technical Assistance Loan
 TOR       Terms o f Reference
 TRACECA Transport Corridor Europe-Caucasus -Asia
 TRRC      Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center
 VAT       Value Added Tax
 UEDC      United EnergyDistribution Company
 USAID     United State Agency for International Development
 USTDA     U S Trade and Development Agency




                             Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
~




                          Country Director:       D - M Dowsett-Coirolo, ECCU3
                  Sector ManagedDirector:         Motoo KonishiFeter Thomson, ECSIE
                         Task Team Leader:        Tamara Sulukhia, ECSIE




 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
 performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
 World Bank authorization.


                                                           GEORGIA
                 INFRASTRUCTURE PRE-INVESTMENT FACILITY TA

                                                          CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                 Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             .................................................................    1
 1.  Country and Sector Issues...................................................................................................                    1
 2.  Rationale for Bank Involvement.........................................................................................                         4
 3 . Higher Level Objectives to which the Project Contributes ................................................                                       6

B
.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION                       .................................................................................................      7
 1.  Lending Instrument.............................................................................................................                 7
 2 . Project Development Objective and Key Indicators                                  ...........................................................   7
 3.  Project Components ............................................................................................................                 7
 4.  Lessons Learned and Reflected inthe Project Design........................................................                                      9
 5 . Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection                                 .........................................................    10

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                   ........................................................................................................       10
 1.  Institutional and ImplementationArrangements ..............................................................                                    10
 2.  Monitoring and Evaluation o f Outcomes/Results .............................................................                                   12
 3.  Sustainabillty
           . . .        .....................................................................................................................       13
 4.  Critical Risks and Possible Controversial Aspects ...........................................................                                  13
 5.  Loadcredit Conditions and Covenants ............................................................................                               14

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                          .................................................................................................       14
 1.  Economic and Financial Analysis .....................................................................................                          14
 2.  Technical...........................................................................................................................           15
 3.  Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................          15
 4.   Social.................................................................................................................................       16
 5 . Environment       ......................................................................................................................       16
 6 .  Safeguard Policies        .............................................................................................................       16
 7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                          17

Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                       .........................................................    18

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                             .................23

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                     ........................................................................       25

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description           ......................................................................................       28

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................        32

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                  .................................................................................       33

Annex 7: FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements                                            .....................................  35

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements               ......................................................................................       39

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                  .............................................................................       43

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues        ............................................................................................        44

Annex 11: Project Preparationand Supervision                      .....................................................................      46

Annex 12: Documents in the Project File              .................................................................................       47

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                 ..............................................................................      48

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................        50


MAP of Georgia IBRDNo.34376

                                        GEORGIA

                     INFRASTRUCTURE PRE-INVESTMENT FACILITY

                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                              EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

                                          ECSIE

Date: January 16,2006                         Team Leader: Tamara Sulukhia
Country Director: D-MDowsett-Coirolo          Sectors: General energy sector (55%); General
Sector ManagedDirector: Motoo Konishi         transportation sector (45%)
                                              Themes: Infrastructure services for private
                                              sector development (P);Trade facilitation and
                                              market access (S);Export development and
                                              competitiveness (S)
Project ID: PO98850                           Environmental screening category: Partial
                                              Assessment
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance      Safeguard screening category: B
Grant
                                  Project FinancingData
[ ] Loan    [ 3 Credit  [XI Grant  [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:




                 Source                       Local            Foreign            Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                               0.30               0.60              0.90
IDA Grant                                        1.30               3.70              5.00
Total:                                           1.60               4.30              5.90




Responsible Agency:
MinistryofEnergy, 10, Lermontov Str.
Tbilisi, Georgia 0105
Tel: 995-32-996098    Fax: 995-32-989930
Ministry o fEconomic Development, 12,Rustaveli Ave
Tbilisi, Georgia 0108
Tel: 995-32-932846    Fax: 995-32-921786

hmulativel       0.85 1   4.25  I  5.00   I    5.00  I                                    I



Project implementation period: Start: March 15,2006 End:March 15,2009
Expected effectiveness date: March 15,2006
Expected closing date: September 30,2009
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Re$ PAD A.3                                                                         [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                         [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
[s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                         [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                         [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The development objective o f the Project i s to facilitate infrastructure investments that have
strategic importance and/or special complexity by ensuring that proper feasibility work i s carried
out in a timely manner in order to enable the government to make sound investment decisions,
and where appropriate, to proceed expeditiously with further preparatory steps and mobilize
adequate financing for implementation.

The focus on energy and transport sectors i s consistent with Governments investment priorities
and CPS objectives. Specifically, the Project will finance technical assistance (TA) to assess the
feasibility and effectiveness o f identified investments through preparation work including
technical and sectoral studies, engineering design, and analysis o f economic, financial and
environmental feasibility, as well as financial and legal advisory services, where required.

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
The Project has two major components: Component 1 will finance TA for Khudoni Hydropower
Project preparation; Component 2, with two sub-components, will finance preparation o f Transit
Corridor projects.    The Sub-component 2.A. will provide TA for preparation o f East-West
Highway Improvement Project. Sub-component 2.B. will provide TA for preparation o f other
Transit Corridor projects. Scope and funding o f Sub-component 2.B. will depend upon the
availability o f funding remaining after the first two priority components are financed.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10.
Although the IPF Project i s limited to technical assistance, it has been classified as Category B,
triggering OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement),
because o f the safeguard impacts o f possible follow-on investment projects, the feasibility o f
which are studied under the IFP Project. To address these environmental and social safeguards
during project preparation, a Safeguard Framework, as described in Section D (Appraisal
Summary) has been disclosed and consultations have been held.                SF is part of Project

Operational Manuals to be followed during project implementation. Since the EnguriRiver, on
which a possible future Khudoni hydropower plant would be located, flows into the Black Sea,
the International Waterways safeguard (OP 7.50) has been triggered. The project is not expected
to cause appreciable harm to the other riparians. The Commission for the "Convention on the
Protection o f the Black Sea Against Pollution" has beennotified.
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref: PAD C.7
Board presentation:
None.

Loadcredit effectiveness:
(i) Recipient will make appropriate arrangements for its fiscal year 2006 to cover its
    The
contribution to the financing requirements o f the Project. Such an arrangement would consist o f
a letter from the Minister o f Finance to IDA ensuring that (i)inthe next budget revision for its
fiscal year 2006 to be submitted to the Parliament, an appropriate budgetary allocation for the
co-financing o f this Project would be included, and (ii)irrespective o f the budget
submissiodapproval above, the Recipient will provide in a timely manner appropriate financing
to cover its share o f incurred costs.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
(i) Recipientshallensurethatadequateannualbudgetaryallocationsarebeingmadetocover
   The
the Recipient's contribution to the financing requirementso fthe Project.

(ii)TheMinistryofEnergyandthe MinistryofEconomicDevelopmentwill submitto IDA
Quarterly Progress reports, in a format satisfactory to IDA, not later than 30 days after the end of
each quarter outlining the progress made in the implementation o f the Project, as well as the
problems encountered and how they are being addressed;

(iii) road-related projectstheGovernment shallpermittheuseofdesignandconstruction
     For
standards recommended by the European Committee for Standardization on Construction and
Design o f Roads.


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and Sector Issues

Georgia i s a small country located to the south o f the Caucasus mountain range, with Russia to
the north, Armenia and Turkeyto the south, Azerbaijan to the east, and the Black Sea to the west
(see map attached). It has a population o f 4.4 million'. Following independence, the loss of
planned production to Soviet markets, the end o f large budget transfers from Moscow, and the
impact o f civil war which displaced some 300,000 people resulted in a 70 percent drop inoutput.
A stabilization and structural reform program led to a modest rebound inGDP inthe mid-1990s.
However, the impact o f these reforms was blunted as Georgia took on many o f the trappings o f a
failed state: fragmented political power, deterioration in law and order; widespread corruption; a
build-up in arrears in public salaries, pensions, and social transfers, and a slackened pace of
political reforms. In addition, the deterioration of physical works and the lack o f resources for
maintenance and rehabilitation resulted ina major deteriorationo f key infrastructure, particularly
the roads and power networks. These factors ledto growing dissatisfactionwith the Government
which culminated in the Rose Revolution in November 2003 and the election o f a new
Government in January 2004 committed to addressing governance issues head-on and providing
the basic infrastructure services necessary to sustain growth.

The new Government has moved quickly and decisively on a number o f fronts. It is focusing on
fighting corruption and buildinggood governance; improving the fiscal stance while introducing
tax reform, easing the regulatory environment for business; reforming social services, most
notably in education and social protection systems; and addressing the deterioration in
infrastructure, particularly in roads and power.             Accomplishments in these areas over the
Government's first two years have been impressive. Public salaries and pension are paid on time
and most arrears have been cleared. Reforms in police and tax administration have had strong
initial impact and are continuing.            The regulatory and administrative environment facing
business is being improved and education reform inparticular is introducing sweeping reform in
Georgia's schools at all levels. Last year for the first time ever, students were admitted to
colleges and universities on the basis o f standard national exams, thereby eliminating a pervasive
source o f corruption.       For the business environment, the Bank's Doing Business Report
publishedin 2005 rated Georgia as the country with the second most improved business climate
in the world.    Similar results were noted in the 2005 Business Environment and Enterprise
Performance survey.2

The new Government recognizes that reform, rehabilitation and development o f infrastructure is
vital for its efforts to spur economic growth, generate jobs and reduce poverty and has made
infrastructure a key priority. The importance o f rebuilding critical infrastructure is underpinned
by the structure of the economy. At present, a significant part o f Georgia's economy remains
rural based. Although agriculture has declined as a percentage o f GDP following the collapse o f
traditional Soviet markets for fruits, vegetables and wine, it remains the largest sector o f the
economy, accounting for 16 percent o f GDP but 52 percent o f the employment. Trade i s the
second largest sector of the economy, accounting for 13 percent o f GDP and 11 percent o f

''This number does not include population o f SouthOsetia and Abkhazia.
  EBRDlWorld Bank (2005) "Business Environment and Enterprise Performaiice". (BEEPS).

employment, while manufacturing accounts for 9 percent o f GDP and 5 percent o f employment.
Rebuilding existing infrastructure necessary to sustain growth, particularly private sector led
growth, inthe rural areas and rebuilding trade routes necessary to strengthen Georgia's status as
a transit economy is therefore a top priority.

Due to a much improved fiscal stance -- underpinnedby a stable macro-economic framework,
low inflation and growing revenues - the Government in the last two years has managed to
substantially increase investments in these areas. However, given that needs are much greater
than available resources, mobilization of investments for rehabilitation and development of
transport and energy infrastructure, including by the private sector, remains a major priority for
the Government, as evidenced in the recently issued Progress Report on the Economic
Development and Poverty Reduction Program (EDPRP). These areas are also a major area o f
cooperation with IDA, as evidenced by the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY 2006-09
andthe FirstPoverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO) approvedinAugust 2005.

Energy Sector Issues: Georgia consumes about 8 billion kWh o f electricity per year, o f which
about 60 percent is domestic hydropower, about 30 percent is domestic thermal power, and
nearly 10 percent i s electricity imports. The thermal plants are fueled by imported natural gas,
thus the import dependency inthe electricity sector is considerable. Electricity consumption is
anticipated to grow by about 5 percent annually over the next three years. Georgia imports about
1.4 billion cubic meters o f natural gas, currently only from Russia, but with gas also to become
available from Azerbaijan in late 2006 through a new transit pipeline crossing Georgia from
Azerbaijan to Turkey.

The new Government has taken an active role in the energy sector, with considerable success,
notably for power. Availability o f power has substantially improved, and 24 hour service for
paying customers i s a near-term reachable target for much o f the country (i.e. beyond Tbilisi
where power is generally available). Problems o f electricity theft and non-payments have been
vigorously addressed.         Payment collections for UEDC, the dominant, state-owned power
distributor outside Tbilisi, were approximately 65 percent in the fall o f 2005 as compared to
about 25 percent in early 2004. Targeted investments to rehabilitate hydropower plants have
increased generation capacity, and progress has also been made to mitigate risks o f failure inthe
transmission system. The deployment o f international management contractors in power
distribution, transmission, and for wholesale market functions, has contributed to the sector
improvements by adding professionalism, improving the utility companies' cost structures, and
through their successful efforts to fight corruption.

The progress in the power sector since the Rose Revolution has been achieved from an abysmal
starting point, and future challenges are plentiful. The Government has established an Energy
Sector Strategic Action Plan to guide its work. Among the major unsolved issues i s power sector
debt and liquidity. The Government, supported by international consultants, i s preparing
legislation to address the sector debt, which at USS500 million is unsustainable even as 80% of it
is intrastate debt. In spite o f major financial improvements, some generating companies and the
power transmission company are under-funded, and some tariffs are below cost recovery level3.
However, the Government provides budgetary support to the sector, and the contributions o f
'Electricitytariffsare about 6.8US centsikwhin Tbilisi and about 4.7 U S centsikWh in the regions


                                                       2

investment funds from international financial institutions are sizeable. The Government plans to
privatize assets in distribution and generation as soon as practically possible. Current plans call
for privatizations in2006, although such a time schedule seems optimistic.

In2004, the Government identifiedself-sustainability and energy security as two mainpriorities
in its-energypolicy. The goal is to create a profitable energy industrythat can sustain itself on
the basis o f the financial flows from end consumers. To support its priorities, the Government
wants to ensure the most efficient use o f internal resources and a diversification o f supply points
for energy entering the country, using its geo-political location for transit arrangement to help
ensure energy security.      A cost-effective expansion o f domestic hydropower production is
viewed as a potential means to mitigate the financial impact o f increasing prices o f imported
fossil fuels and electricity while contributing to self-sustainability and energy security o f the
country.

For energy, this Infrastructure Pre-Investment Facility focuses on assessing the feasibility o f a
possible Khudoni Hydropower Plant (Khudoni HPP). Construction o f the Khudoni hydropower
plant in western Georgia (see map in Annex 15) started in 1985, but was terminated unfinished
in 1989 due to the situation inthe Soviet Union at the time. Also the earthquake inneighboring
Armenia in 1988 (Richter scale 6.9) impacted the decision to suspend building o f the dam and
power plant. Later (in 1992), the planned dam was redesigned to sustain extreme earthquakes
(Richter scale 9, vs. earlier 8).      Dam safety i s the most critical aspect o f hydropower plant
studies, including the planned feasibility assessments for the Khudoni HPP. Khudoni HPP is
expected to be the least-cost large hydropower development available to Georgia.

Transport Sector Issues: Georgia's geographical position makes it an important transport link
between east-west (the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea) and north and south (between Russia and
Turkey). Trade with its neighbors, both transit and bilateral, i s also an important feature o f
Georgia's economy. Transit activities generate a direct turnover o f more that US$2 billion per
year. One o f the government top priorities i s to develop Georgia's comparative advantage as a
transit country by improving its East-West Transport Corridor. The development o f oil resources
i s projected to increase the east-west flow o f oil and associated products4. The Government
recognizes that the full potential o f its transit corridor has not been realized. The Government's
focus i s modernizationo f the transit roadnetwork.

The road network in Georgia consists o f 1,474 kilometers o f main roads with about 70 per cent
in good to fair condition; 3,392 kilometers of secondary roads of which over 60 percent are in
poor condition and need rehabilitation; and 15,429 kilometers o f local roads most o f which are in
very poor condition. The current condition o f the road network in Georgia reflects a severe
reduction in the resources allocated to road maintenance under the previous Government, from
the early 1990s to 2004. A recent sector review5 documents the decline in road maintenance
expenditures, from GEL125.1 million (US$59.5 million) in 1988 to GEL 24.8 million (US$12.4
million) in 2002, in nominal terms. The poor state o f the highway network constrains the
movement o f goods and people among Georgia's cities, ports, and rural areas; and through
Georgia, along the transit corridor. The long transit times, despite the relatively short distance,

'USAID.   GeorgianRailway Restructuring Program, draft May 2005.
5 World Bank, (2002) "Transport Sector Review of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia ", ECSIE.


                                                     3

and poor road conditions add to transport costs and deter usage o f the Georgian transit route.
According to work undertaken elsewhere in the region, poor road quality can raise transport
costs by between28-56%6, and in the more extreme cases could result in a complete stoppage o f
service as transport operators become reluctant to operate on roads which are liable to damage
their vehicles.

Since coming to power the new Government has focused on improvement o f road infrastructure.
Fundingprovided to the transport sector has increased substantially from GEL 51.4 million in
2003, to GEL 67.8 million in 2004 and GEL 121.4 million in 2005 with further increases
projected for 2006. Moreover, the Government recognizes the need to further improve funding
and management mechanisms to adequately maintain Georgia's roads. IDA-financed transport
sector projects are assisting the RDMEDin developing cost-effective mechanisms to better align
maintenance expenditures with existing needs, through development o f a multi-year road
maintenance plan, introduction o f modern management technologies, application o f a new road
classification system, and development o f new road design standards. In view o f the poor road
conditions, IDA also approved in 2004 a credit o f U S $20 million for the rehabilitation o f 500 to
750 km o f local and secondary roads, which currently is under implementation.

In addition to improved maintenance and road management the Government is focusing on the
modernization o f the East-West highway from Georgia's major Black Sea port o f Poti to the
Azeri Border at the Red Bridge. In 2005 the PPIAF funded a study which reviewed the
economic feasibility o f various improvement options on the East        -  West route with special
attention to the critical section betweenTbilisi and Rikoti as it carries the highest traffic volume
and the largest proportion o f heavy vehicles. The study analyzed the options to upgrade the
existing road to a highway with an alignment that would achieve the maximum design speed o f
120 km per hour. The upgrade o f the existing road to four lanes or the construction o f parallel
2x2 motonvay both have acceptable economic rates o f return. The Government has selected the
option to upgrade the existingroad and has requested IDA support.

2. Rationale for BankInvolvement

The Government's policy agenda recognizes infrastructure investments as one o f the major ways
to support the country's accelerated economic growth and in particular it focuses on
development o f energy and transport infrastructure as a top priority. This Infrastructure Pre-
InvestmentFacility (IPF Project) would provide the Government with funds to conduct studies to
analyze the viability o f the investment options and to more efficiently prepare projects for
financing. The Project would also enable the Government to investigate financing structures that
would tap funding other than IDA credits and thus increase the available financing package.

The Government's commitment to the energy and transport sectors is evident from the
substantial increase of funding levels from the state budget as well as from public declarations o f
the country's President and the Prime-Minister. One result o f the Government's clear vision for
infrastructure development is that Georgia obtained grant funding from the Millennium
Challenge Corporation (MCC).         In September, 2005 Georgia signed a five-year US$295.3
million Compact with MCC inorder to implement infrastructure projects that have a major social

`World Bank, (20038) Op cif.


                                                 4

and economic impact. In addition, the Government is working on attracting funding from all
feasible sources o f finance.

Over the last decade, IDA has played a leading role in providing investment lending to the
Georgian infrastructure sector and ensuring that projects are identified, prepared, implemented,
and monitored ina competent way and according to highstandards. Inaddition, IDA has taken a
lead inthe policy dialogue for the energy and transport sectors. Given IDA'Sengagement and its
professional capacity it has a comparative advantage inproviding pre-investment assistance, and
its involvement in the sector can facilitate and attract other international organizations and the
private sector to participate in infrastructure investment projects, including public-private
partnerships and partial-risk guarantees.

Reform in the power sector has been a major priority o f IDA assistance in Georgia since 1997
due to the sector's broad implications for social welfare, commercial activity and fiscal
sustainability. Currently, the Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO) supports important
energy reforms with a focus on establishing a financially viable power sector. An SDR 21
million IDA credit supports rehabilitation o f the power transmission system, introduction o f
modem system controls (SCADA),           and an international management contract for the
transmission company. IDA also actively seeks to ensure adequate coordination o f activities in
the energy sector that are supported by credits from various donors and international financial
institutions.

The new Government has directed its efforts towards reaching self-sustainability and energy
security through reform o f the sector and improvement o f existing infrastructure. However, the
Government also recognizes the need for diversification o f its supply points, and construction o f
Khudoni Hydro Power Plant project (if proven feasible) is one such project. Bank support
through the proposed project for preparation o f the Khudoni hydropower project would further
enhance support to the Government's goals o f energy self-sustainability and energy security.
The Khudoni Hydropower Plant, feasibility o f which i s to be assessed by this project, would
produce 1500 GWh or more per year, constituting more than 15 percent o f annual electricity
consumption inGeorgia and about 20 percent o f the country's hydropower production.

The Government has demonstrated its commitment to develop the East West Transport Corridor
by its application for and response to the PPIAF study which provided private financing options
to rehabilitate the Rikoti tunnel and economic and financial analysis for the road corridor
development. The Government's prompt decision after the presentation o f the options for the
road corridor i s further indication o f the priority o f this investment. The Government has
allocated approximately GEL 35 million in the 2006 budget to fund the upgrade o f the existing
two lane road to four lanes from outside o f Tbilisi to the village o f Agaiani. The Government
would like Bank financing to continue the upgrade from Agaiani towards Rikoti. The existing
IDA project o f US$20 million is to rehabilitate secondary and local roads which interconnect to
various road corridors. The last IDA support for the highway network was in 2000-2005 where
the IDA funded rehabilitation o f sections o f the East West Highway corridor for US$40 million.

The development o f East West Transit Corridor projects would directly contribute to the
economy by generating hard currency earnings from transit revenues, alleviate rural poverty by



                                                   5

reducing cost and time for transport o f agricultural goods, and generate indirect economic
opportunities along the transit route.     Development o f the transit comdor in Georgia i s
complemented by parallel investments in the transit corridor in Azerbaijan, where IDA i s
supporting road and rail corridor investment projects which would link into the Georgian
networks. New commitments o f US$60 million are anticipated for the transport sector in this
CPS period. The only external development partner engaged inthe transport sector i s M C C with
its US$103 million grant to construct a highway from Tbilisi to the isolated region o f Samtskhe-
Javakheti in Southern Georgia. The Infrastructure Pre-Investment Facility is needed to
investigate the viability of highimpact projects and facilitate project preparation.

In railways, IDA is developing a complementary project in Azerbaijan to upgrade rail
infrastructure on the Azerbaijan portion o f the rail corridor and improve coordination between
the Azeri and Georgianrailways on transit movements.

As the Government considers the development o f strategic infrastructure projects, preparatory
work will improve its capacity to make sound investment decisions and, where appropriate, to
mobilize adequate financing. The TA provided under this Project will ensure adequate capacity
to undertake such feasibility work in a timely manner and with high-quality as well as, where
appropriate, to proceed expeditiously with further preparatory steps and mobilize adequate
financing for implementation.

3. Higher Level Objectivesto which the ProjectContributes

Recognizing the importance o f infrastructure to sustainable economic development the new
Government has targeted rehabilitation o f transport and energy infrastructure as a top priority
and one o f the major components for poverty reduction. Over the course o f the last two years, the
Government managed to substantially increase investments in these areas. However, given that
needs are much greater than available resources, mobilization o f investments for rehabilitation o f
transport and energy infrastructure has become a major priority for the Government as well as a
major area o f cooperation with IDA, as evidenced by the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for
FY 2006-09.      Under one o f the overarching themes in the CPS          - Enabling Income- and
Employment-Generating Growth       -  improved electricity and gas infi-astructure, and improved
transport infrastructure are among the key objectives.

Improved electricity and gas infrastructure,        and improved transport infrastructure, are
development outcomes proposed by the CPS to which the IPF Project directly contributes. The
CPS emphasizes that in the energy sector IDA assistance will aim to substantially improve
service levels in the power sector. Inthe roads sector it will take the lead inhelping develop the
main highway network. Under the CPS approximately 45% o f IDA financing is envisaged for
funding o f infrastructure investmentprojects in 2006-09, and scenarios are proposed to explore
the potential for IBRD enclave financing in an export oriented energy sector project. Inaddition,
the CPS provides for feasibility studies for high priority infrastructure investments through an
infrastructure pre-investment facility. Therefore, the proposed IPF Project directly contributes to
the CPS's high level objectives.




                                                 6

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1. LendingInstrument

The proposed IPF Project i s a Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) inthe form o f grant with a focus
on preparation o f priority infrastructure investment projects. The estimated total cost o f the
project is US$5.9 million. O f this amount, the IDA portion will be US$5.0 million (85% o f the
project cost).  Retroactive financing in an amount not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent i s
available under the Project for payments for Consultant's services and incremental operating
costs made prior to the date o f the Financing Agreement, but on or after January 1,2006.

2. ProjectDevelopmentObjectiveand Key Indicators

The development objective o f the IPF Project is to facilitate infrastructure investments that have
strategic importance and/or special complexity by ensuring that proper feasibility work i s carried
out in a timely manner in order to enable the government to make sound investment decisions,
and where appropriate, to proceed expeditiously with further preparatory steps and mobilize
adequate financing for implementation.

The focus on energy and transport sectors i s consistent with Government's investment priorities
and CPS objectives. Specifically, the IPF Project will finance TA to assess the feasibility and
effectiveness o fproposed investmentsthrough preparation work, including technical and sectoral
studies, engineeringdesign, and analysis o f economic, financial and environmental feasibility, as
well as financial and legal advisory services, where required. The IPF Project will support the
delivery o fthese outcomes with details to be worked out on a case-by-case basis.


Keyperformance indicators to assess the fulfillment of the Project development objectives are:

    0   Studies for preparation o f Khudoni Hydropower project completed satisfactorily to the
        Bank and the Government;
    0   Studies for preparation o f Transit Corridor projects completed satisfactorily to the Bank
        and the Government.

3. Project Components

The IPF Project has two major components: Component 1 will finance TA for Khudoni
Hydropower Project preparation; Component 2, with two sub-components, will finance
preparation o f Transit Corridor projects. While Components 1 and 2.A. are clearly defined, the
scope o f the sub-component 2.B. is broadly determined for transit corridor projects and depends
upon the availability of funds remaining after funding needs for Component 1 and 2.A. are
satisfied. Inaddition, US$0.05 million has beenreserved for Incremental Operating Costs.

Component 1: TA for Khudoni Hydropower Project Preparation (Component cost is US$3.3
million)

The Grant would finance a study for the Khudoni Hydropower Project to assess its technical,
economic and financial viability while at the same time determine how a possible development


                                                 7

o f the hydropower project could be undertaken with adequate safeguards and solutions
concerning the environment and socialh-esettlement impacts.         Dam safety will be given top
priority in the study. The study would include a review o f original design plans (Phase I);     an
assessment on alternative dam and hydropower concepts (Phase II),         and the development o f a
feasibility study for the selected alternative (Phase 111). Phase I11would also include analyses o f
potential export markets for part o f the Khudoni power as well as financing options for the
project. If, on the basis o f this Phase 1-111work, the project i s determined to be feasible and
adequate safeguards solutions are identified and if the Government decides to proceed, a Phase
IV could be launched. Under Phase IV the consultants would develop detailed designs and
specifications, undertake a prequalification process, develop biddingdocuments for building the
dam and power plant, and assist during the biddingprocess. The IDA involvement in financing
and execution o f Phase IV work, and the approach to Phase IV, would depend on the planned
ownership structure o f the power plant and the availability o f interested investors at the time
when feasibility has been determined. A Panel o f Experts to review the consultants' dam design,
technical and environmental solutions, resettlement solutions and other aspects, would also be
financed. The feasibility study may show the need for expanded field work              - geological,
geoseismical, hydrological, etc. - which might incur a need for additional financing. The Phase
1-111work (to assess feasibility) is expected to take about 12 months, and the subsequent Phase
IV about 4 months, but there may be a significant time interval between Phase I11and IV for
decision making, project financing, and handling o f other issues. The Khudoni project's
environmental and social implications will be analyzed and developed under a separate TA
contract running in parallel with the technical studies in Phase 1-111and be finished at the time
when the Government would decide whether to proceed into Phase IV o fthe project (Le. detailed
design and biddingprocess).

Should the Khudoni HPP prove to be economically attractive (and otherwise feasible), financial
analyses would be undertaken and issues addressed concerning ownership and power sales.
Financial advisory services and possibly expanded market analysis would be required, and
particularly inthe event o f a long-term export contract for part o f the Khudoni power, substantial
legal services would also be required. Costs for such work would expectedly be large, but might
substantially be carried by private sector investors in Khudoni.          Nevertheless, some o f the
mentioned work might best be financed by the Government, and the IPF Project will make funds
available within what i s uncommitted, consistent with Government priorities.

Component 2: TAfor Preparation of Transit Corridor Projects (Component cost is
US$2.55million)

2. A. TAfor Preparation of East- WestHighway Improvement Project (Sub-Component cost is
US$I.6million)

The Government's priority i s to start modernization o f the Red Bridge-Tbilisi-Poti transit road
from the most congested section from Natakhtari, which is about 12 Km west o f Tbilisi to
Khashuri by upgrading the existing road from two lanes to four lanes. Therefore, the
Government has allocated funds from its own budget to upgrade 15 Km o f the road from
Natakhtari to Agaiani. The Project will complete a feasibility study, preliminary design and
environmental assessment to continue this 4 lane upgrade from Agaiani to Sveneti



                                                  8

(approximately Km44 mark to Km 80 mark), subdividingthe highway for analysis purposes into
three sections: Section 1 - Agaiani to Igoeti, Section 2 - Igoeti Bypass, and Section3 - Igoeti to
Sveneti. The preliminary review will be followed by detailed design and preparation o f the
biddingpackages for each section. The environmental and social implications o f the corridor
improvement project will be analyzed as part o f the technical studies.

2. 3. TAfor Preparation of Other Transit Corridor Projects (Sub-component cost is
 US$O.95 million)

The scope o f this sub-component is broadly determined for transit comdor projects (road or
railways) and depends upon the availability o f funds remaining after funding needs of the other
two priority components o f the project are satisfied. Increase in the estimated costs o f work on
Component 1 andor Component 2.A. over and above estimates would be accommodated by
reducing or eliminating work under Component 2.B. The selection criteria for projects will be
guided by their strategic importance, complexity, and merit.

4. LessonsLearnedand Reflectedin the Project Design

The design o f the IPF Project draws on the lessons learned from IDA supported investment and
policy-based operations inGeorgia as well as from implementation o f similar projects elsewhere.
The lessons learned from various technical assistance projects, i.e. ownership by local
institutions, preparation of comprehensive Terms o f Reference (TORS), selection o f competent
consultants, detailed reviews for ensuring quality o f consultant's outputs, realistic time-frame,
and wide consultations with local institutions, donors and other stakeholders, have been taken
into account in the Project design. The Government's ownership o f the reform agenda will
ensure effective implementation and future sustainability o f the Project and the proposed Project
has been designed to ensure a high degree o f commitment. The proposed components o f the
Project have received strong political support at the highest level o f the Government and are
fully aligned with the Government's stratigic agenda.

A key feature o fthe Project is the inclusion of the relevant Government Ministries as an integral
part o f the Project. It i s their responsibility in partnership with IDA to guide review and
comment on consultants' reports and studies, as well as design the scope o f work for the
consultants. The consultants will be selected according to IDA'Sguidelines and procedures for
selection o f consultants.

Experience with other IDA operations applying similar funding mechanisms was carefully
considered and adapted to reflect the country context. The FMS team conducted an assessment
o f the feasibility o f using Georgian public financial management systems to implement IDA-
financed projects in general, and the proposed IPF Project in particular. In the course o f this
work the capacity o f the Treasury systems was assessed for managing Project funds, providing
the required level o f banking services and reporting on the use o f project funds. Disbursement
arrangements were discussed at length with the M o F and Treasury service and agreements were
reached on specific aspects o f the accounts to be established within the Treasury as well as
financial management procedures to be introduced.




                                                  9

Experience with IDA-financed or IDA-managed technical assistance in other countries points to
a need for careful and realistic planning o f the T A and close monitoring o f the consultants to
ensure that the tasks are completed on schedule. IDA'Sinvolvement in ensuring clear and
comprehensive Terms o f Reference, proposing realistic schedules, interimreview o f consultants
work with counterparts, and coordination with donors was found to be necessary for timely and
effective implementation o f technical assistanceprojects. IDA will therefore be closely involved
inimplementationoftheproposedIPFProject.

Project implementation capacity has been identified as one o f the key determinants o f success for
all IDA-financed projects in the country and region. A fkrther determinant i s the importance o f
balancing ownership for individual components and related technical knowledge. Given that
both components deal with preparation o f strategic and complex infrastructure investment
projects, the proposed implementation arrangements envisage that primary responsibility for
Project components will be assigned to the key sectoral institutions - to the Ministry o f Energy
for the Khudoni component, and to the Ministry o f Economic Development for the Transit
Corridor component. Followingthe experience accumulated inthe region, specific skills will be
contracted, and the consultants will work under the supervision and guidance o f a project-
responsible personwith the necessary authority.

5. AlternativesConsideredand Reasonsfor Rejection

Because o f the small amount o f grant resources, the option o f financing physical investments
was not considered.

Among the choices for technical assistance for pre-investment project preparation, several
infrastructure sectors were considered initially - energy, transport, water and sanitation, and
irrigation and drainage but the project was limited to the energy and transport sectors only to
efficiently respond to the Government's priorities and facilitate sound decision-making in
regards to its most strategic and complex projects. A feasibility study for strategic strengthening
of the power transmission system was considered, but the Government has entered into
agreement with USTDA to undertake such work. The Bank's Khudoni study will only address
power transmission issues to the extent they remain uncovered for the purpose o f establishing
Khudoni's feasibility.

An alternative considered was to prepare targeted infrastructure investment projects through a
PPF, but the IPF Project allows higher efficiency for project preparation, offers upstream project
assessment capacity and more flexibility to conduct studies for projects where it i s not yet known
iftheyarefeasibleforfurtherinvestments.


C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Institutionaland ImplementationArrangements

The IPF Project will be implementedover a three year period from March 15, 2006 to March 15,
2009. The division o f institutional mandates, roles and responsibilities for the management o f



                                                 10

the program is summarized below and described in greater detail in Technical Annex 6:
Implementation Arrangements.

The responsibility for project implementation will lie with the two major sectoral agencies
(according to the project components) - Ministry o f Energy, and Ministry o f Economic
Development. These Ministries will draft Terms o f References for consultants, manage
procurement, sign contracts, supervise progress, and process payments for their respective
components.

For the Khudoni component the implementing agency will be the Ministry o f Energy. A Deputy
Minister, designated by the Minister, will be in charge o f the Project. Since procurement and
financial management skills required by IDA and necessary for Project implementation are
lacking within the Ministry, assistance in these areas will be provided by the Project Service
Organization (PSO) which has been established to support implementation o f the Electricity
Market Support Project (EMSP).        The PSO i s an entity under Public Law reporting to the
Ministry o f Energy. The entity has experience in managing IDA-financed projects.              The
activities o f the PSO under this Project will be under direct oversight o f the Deputy Minister.
The Ministry will be responsible for all other functions related to implementation o f this Project,
including inter alia decisions relating to the substance o f the consultants' work and decisions to
proceed with the various phases o f the work. After the closure o f the EMSP project, scheduled
for end o f 2007, the services o f the PSO to the IPF Project would be replaced by consulting
services procured by the Ministry o f Energyunder the IPFProject.

The PSO accountant/financial management specialists will be responsible for setting up and
operating the project's financial management and accounting system according to IDA standards
and to keep and monitor project accounts for the Khudoni component. An auditor acceptable to
IDA will annually audit project-related accounts, disbursements, and Statements o f Expenditures
(SOEs) according to international standards. The annual audit report will be submittedto IDA
within six months o fthe endo f each fiscal year.

Procurement for the Khudoni component would be carried out under the IDA procurement
guidelines. The PSO will draft procurement documents for the Khudoni project, and will carry
out day-to-day contract management activities. However, M o E will be responsible for decision-
making issues such as decisions about evaluation committee members. Contracts will be signed
by the MoE and the contractors. Contract negotiations will be carried out by the MoE with
participation o f the PSO. M o E will keep originals o f all procurement documents with copies at
the PSO's premises.

Transit Corridor projects will be implemented by the Ministry o f Economic Development. The
Deputy Minister who i s responsible for the transport sector inthe Ministry,will be designated by
the Minister to be in charge o f the Project. Since procurement and financial management skills
required by IDA, and necessary for project implementation, are lacking within the Ministry,
assistance in these areas will be provided by the Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center
(TRRC). The TRRC was established in 1996 as an entity o f Public Law under the Ministry o f
Economic Development.




                                                 11

The main function o f the TRRC will be assisting the implementing Ministry to undertake
procurement work, project financial management and accounting, disbursements, financial
reporting, and auditing arrangements. The activities o f the TRRC under this Project will be under
direct oversight o f the Deputy Minister. The TRRC has experience in managing IDA projects
having implemented four IDA-financed transport projects. (The ongoing Secondary and local
Roads project has a similar implementation arrangement, whereby the TRRC assists the Roads
Department o f the Ministry o f Economic Development based on a the specific agreement). The
Ministry will be responsible for all other hnctions related to implementation o f this Project,
including inter alia decisions relating to the substance o f the consultants' work and decisions
relating to enteringthe various phases ofthe work.

The TRRC accountant/financial management specialists will be responsible for setting up Project
financial and accounting system according to IDA standards and to keep and monitor project
accounts for the Transit Corridor component. An auditor acceptable to IDA will annually audit
project-related accounts, disbursements, and Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs) according to
international standards. The annual audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months o f
the end o f each fiscal year.

Procurement under this Project will be carried out under the IDA procurement guidelines. The
TRRC will draft procurement documentation for Component 2 o f the project, and will carry out
day-to-day contract management activities. However, MoED will be responsible for decision-
making. Contracts will be also signed by MoED and contractors. Contract negotiations will be
camed out by the MoED with participation o f TRRC. MoED will keep originals o f all
procurement documents with copies at TRRC premises.

All correspondence with project stakeholders and/or consultants will be sent and received by the
respective implementing Ministry. All deliverables from the contractors will be received,
reviewed and accepted or rejected with certain comments by M o E and MoED for their respective
Project components. Project Operational Manuals are developed by PSO and TRRC, agreed
with the MoE and MoED, and approved by IDA. Project Operational Manuals incorporate a
Financial Management section reflecting Treasury accounting and reporting.

The Ministry o f Finance will have the authority to make decisions and take actions concerning
the allocation o f the remaining amounts o f funds inthe Project.

Not later than December, 2006 the Government will review completed work on the studies under
Components 1 and 2.A., will determine whether funds are available to address Component 2.B
and within 30 days will develop the scope o f this component, acceptable to IDA. Any increase
inthe estimated costs o fwork on Component 1and/or Component 2.A. would be accommodated
by reducing or eliminating work under Component 2.B.

2. Monitoring and Evaluation of Outcomes/Results

The target outcomes and results o f the government's program will be monitored on the basis o f
the agreed performance indicators shown in the Project Design Summary provided in Annex 3.
 The Ministry o f Energy and the Ministry of Economic Development will be in charge o f



                                                 12

monitoring the progress against the performance indicators. These organizations will monitor the
performance o f consultants in accordance with the contract, review and approve the Project
inception reports, mid-termreports, and final reports issued by consultants.

Quarterly reports will be submitted to IDA by the Ministry o f Energy and Ministry o f Economic
Development within 30 days after the end o f each project quarter. Annual Reports will be
submittedto IDA by the Ministry o f Energy and Ministry o f Economic Development within 30
days o f end o f each project year. Based on IDA'Sreview o f the quarterly reports, annual reports,
and outcomes o f the supervision mission, measures will be taken to ensure that the Project's
subcomponents are completed without delay and achieve their planned outcomes, and
adjustments will be made, if necessary. The Government will transmit to IDA a Project
Implementation Completion Report (ICR), within three months o f project closing.

Regular supervision missions who will monitor Project implementation progress and report the
findings in Aide-Memoires shared with the relevant stakeholders. The Implementation
Completion Report will be preparedjointly by IDA and the relevant implementingunits, and the
results discussed and presented to the stakeholders.

3. Sustainability

Sustainability o f the technical assistance provided by the Project requires that the
recommendations developed under the Project are effectively used and applied. Preparation of
the investment projects under the IPF Project will assist the government in making sound
investment decisions, and where applicable to mobilize financing for respective investment
projects. The latter largely depends on political stability, continued availability o f resources, and
government's continued commitment to implementation o f those projects.                  The expected
duration o f the Project i s three years, while the impact o f the project - effective application o f its
recommendations resulted in and applied during implementation o f the respective infrastructure
investment projects - may become visible in the longer run. Therefore, project sustainability
largely depends upon the Government's continued commitment to its current infrastructure
investment priorities as well as availability o f funds for implementation o f those investment
projects.

4. Critical Risks and Possible ControversialAspects

One o f the greatest risks associated with this operation is potential slow decision-making
associated with integration o f some PIU functions into respective Ministries. While such
integration builds the most ownership and commitment, it also represents a potential risk, as the
Deputy Ministers who are responsible for Project management will have competing claims on
their time.This may result in slow decision-making, and/or slow utilization o f funds. The second
risk is that the Khudoni and/or East-West highway components o f the Project may cost more
than currently anticipated, not leaving funding available for Component 2.B. The potential for
higher cost can only be assessed after the detailed design studies have been initiated. This will
be mitigated in several ways. First, the project outcome largely depends on the two main
activities, Khudoni and the East-West Highway. Additional feasibility studies planned under the
Project (Component 2.B) contribute to the outcome, but they are not essential for Project



                                                    13

success. Second, decisions on funding for Component 2.B. will be made only by December
2006, after a clearer picture on the cost o f Components 1 and 2.A i s available. Another risk i s
connected to govemment not acting on the findings o f studies. Inorder to mitigate all the above
stated risks, there will be several actions taken throughout the Project preparation and
implementation.     Specifically, TORS were developed for the main TA activities before
Negotiations; implementation o f studies will be carefully monitored by the Government and
IDA; and IDA will maintain continuous dialogue with the key counterparts at all stages o f
Project planningand implementation.

5. Loadcredit Conditionsand Covenants

Conditionsfor Effectiveness:

       (i)     The Recipient will make appropriate arrangements for its fiscal year 2006 to
               cover its contribution to the financing requirements o f the Project. Such an
               arrangement would consist o f a letter from the Minister o f Finance to IDA
               ensuringthat (i) the next budget revision for its fiscal year 2006 to be submitted
                                in
               to the Parliament, an appropriate budgetary allocation for the co-financing o f this
               Project would be included, and (ii) irrespective o f the budget submissiodapproval
               above, the Recipient will provide in a timely manner appropriate financing to
               cover its share o f incurred costs.

CovenantsApplicable to Project Implementation:

        (i)    The Recipient shall ensure that adequate annual budgetary allocations are being
               made to cover the Recipient's contribution to the financing requirements o f the
               Project;

        (ii)    The Ministry o f Energy and the Ministry o f Economic Development will submit
               to IDA Quarterly Progress reports, in a format satisfactory to the IDA, not later
                than 30 days after the end of each quarter outlining the progress made in the
                implementation o f the Project, as well as the problems encountered and how they
                are being addressed;

        (iii)   For road-related projects the Government shall permit the use o f design and
                construction standards      recommended by the European Committee for
                Standardization on Construction and Design o f Roads.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicand FinancialAnalysis

This Project i s going to finance only studies required for preparation o f investment projects,
therefore no economic or financial analysis has been conducted.




                                                  14

2. Technical

This Project is going to finance only studies required for preparation o f investment projects,
therefore no technical issues are expected. Technical issues related to the investment projects
preparedunder this Project will be identified by qualified international consultants, hiredthrough
this Project.

3. Fiduciary

A.      Procurement

An assessment o f the procurement capacities o f each o f the agencies identified to carry out
procurement functions for the Grant beneficiaries was carried out in November and December
2005. The two respective reports (agency procurement capacity assessments) were presentedto
partners. The main conclusions are that, inboth cases, the agencies involved are deemed capable
o f carrying out their respective procurement functions with due regard to risk, efficiency and
economy. Recommendations for measures to mitigate risk are presented in the two reports.
These are in short: (i)the MOED/TRRC needs to prepare an Operations Manual covering in
particular the procurement actions that are due under the transport component; (ii) MOE/PSO
                                                                                         the
also needs to revise and extend its present Operational Manual to reflect the procurement that i s
expected under the energy component such revisions should be made with due regard to the fact
that the two entities do not have prior experience in working under the new Guidelines and are
not familiar with the corresponding changes in the RFP and the consequences with respect to
evaluations.

A Country Procurement Assessment for Georgia was made in 2003 to assess all aspects o f risks
- institutional, political, procedural etc. - that may negatively affect the abilities o f implementing
agencies to carry out procurements in Georgia. The associated report (the CPAR) rates Georgia a
high risk country. Accordingly, the customary prior review practices normally exercised by the
Bank in countries representinghigh risk will also apply to this operation including the setting o f
prior review thresholds incompliance with standard ECA policy. The CPAR needs to be updated
on a number o f developments that have occurred since 2003. A desk review will be undertaken
to assess a revision o f the Public Procurement Law that was introduced inJanuary 2006.

The PAS for this Project is stationed in the Country Office in Tbilisi and will monitor all
procurement actions by way o f customary prior and post reviews and will provide regular
guidance on all procurement-related matters.

A.      Financial Management

As o f November 2005 PSO and TRRC have acceptable financial management arrangements in
place to meet the current IDA requirements for the quality o f accounting, reporting and internal
controls system and also for the audit arrangements, and are ready to start Project
implementation.




                                                   15

The annual audited Project financial statements for both components will be provided to IDA
within six months of the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing o f the Project. Both
components o f the Project will produce a full set o f quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs) throughout the life o f the Project.

4. Social

The IPF Project is limited to the provision o f technical assistance for the preparation o f follow-
on investment, and no negative impact on society i s expected from the implementation of the IPF
Project itself. However, since the follow-on investments being prepared under the IPF Project
include components that could have a social impact, the technical assistance under the IPF
Project includes the preparation of social impact assessments. An overview o f the approach to
be taken has been provided in a Safeguard Framework (SF) specifically prepared for the IPF
project. The SF is a new approach to due diligence on TA loans and has been prepared to meet
the Bank's safeguards requirements. The SF approach has been assessed by the Regional
Safeguards Coordinator (ECSSD) and other relevant experts and has been found to be in
compliance with IDA policy requirements. The SF summarizes the approach to safeguards to be
taken during the implementation o f the IPF Project, which will include preparation o f Social
Impact Assessments (SIAs) for the follow-on investments. The assessment process will be
conducted in accordance with the World Bank policies and guidelines.            The SF has been
disclosed in country and through the World Bank INFO Shop, and i s to be part o f Project
Operational Manuals to be followed during project implementation.             (See Annex 10 for
additional information).

5. Environment

As for social impact, no negative impact on the environment is expected from the
implementation o f the IPF Project itself. However, since the follow-on investments being
prepared under the umbrella o f the IPF Project include components that could have
environmental impact, the technical assistance under the IPF Project includes the preparation o f
environmental impact assessments.        The SF summarizes the approach to environmental
safeguards to be taken during the implementation o f the IPF Project, which will include
preparation o f Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the follow-on investments. The
assessmentprocess will be conducted in accordance with IDA policies and guidelines.

6. Safeguard Policies

Although the IPF Project i s limited to technical assistance, it has been classified as Category B,
triggering OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement),
because o f the safeguard impacts o f possible follow-on investment projects, the feasibility o f
which are studied under the IFP Project. To address these environmental and social safeguards
duringproject preparation, a Safeguard Framework, as described in the sections above, has been
disclosed and consultations have been held. SF i s to be part o f Project Operational Manuals to
be followed during Project implementation. Since the Enguri River, on which a possible future
Khudoni hydropower plant would be located, flows into the Black Sea, the International
Waterways safeguard (OP 7.50) has been triggered. The Project i s not expected to cause



                                                 16

appreciable harm to the other riparians. The Commission for the "Convention on the Protection
o f the Black Sea Against Pollution" has been notified.

  SafeguardPoliciesTriggeredby the Project                                             Yes                     N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                                     [ I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)
  Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)

7. PolicyExceptionsand Readiness

There are no policy exceptions and the documents for the first several months of implementation
program are ready.




* By slipporting theproposed project, the Bank does riot interid to prejudice thefinal deterniinntrori of the parties` clniiizs011the
disputed areas.



                                                                 17


                      Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
             GEORGIA: INFRASTRUCTUREPRE-INVESTMENTFACILITY


Georgia i s a small country located to the south o f the Caucasus mountain range, with Russia to
the North, Armenia and Turkey to the South, Azerbaijan to the East, and the Black Sea to the
West (see map attached). It has a population o f4.4 million'. Following independence, the loss o f
planned production to Soviet markets, the end o f large budget transfers from Moscow, and the
impact o f civil war which displaced some 300,000 people resultedina 70 percent drop inoutput.
A stabilization and structural reform program led to a modest rebound inGDP inthe mid-1990s.
However, the impact o f these reforms was bluntedas Georgia took on many o f the trappings o f a
failed state: fragmented political power, deterioration in law and order; widespread corruption; a
build-up in arrears in public salaries, pensions, and social transfers, and a slackened pace of
political reforms.    Inaddition, the deterioration of physical works and the lack of resources for
maintenance and rehabilitation resulted in a major deterioration o fkey infrastructure, particularly
the roads and power networks. These factors ledto growing dissatisfactionwith the Government
which culminated in the Rose Revolution in November 2003 and the election o f a new
Government in January 2004 committed to addressing governance issues head-on and providing
the basic infrastructure services necessary to sustain growth.

The new Government has moved quickly and decisively on a number o f fronts. It is focusing on
fighting corruption and building good governance; improving the fiscal stance while introducing
tax reform, easing the regulatory environment for business; reforming social services, most
notably in education and social protection systems; and addressing the deterioration in
infrastructure, particularly in roads and power.          Accomplishments in these areas over the
Government's first two years have been impressive. Public salaries and pension are paid on time
and most arrears have been cleared. Reforms in police and tax administration have had strong
initial impact and are continuing.          The regulatory and administrative environment facing
business i s being improved and education reform inparticular i s introducing sweeping reform in
Georgia's schools at all levels.       Last year for the first time ever, students were admitted to
colleges and universities on the basis o f standard national exams, thereby eliminating a pervasive
source o f corruption.       For the business environment, the Bank's Doing Business Report
publishedin 2005 rated Georgia as the country with the second most improved business climate
in the world.    Similar results were noted in the 2005 Business Environment and Enterprise
Performance survey.*

The new Government recognizes that reform, rehabilitation and development o f infrastructure is
vital for its efforts to spur economic growth, generate jobs and reduce poverty and has made
infrastructure a key priority. The importance o f rebuilding critical infrastructure i s underpinned
by the structure o f the economy. At present, a significant part o f Georgia's economy remains
rural based. Although agriculture has declined as a percentage o f GDP following the collapse o f
traditional Soviet markets for fruits, vegetables and wine, it remains the largest sector o f the
economy, accounting for 16 percent o f GDP but 52 percent o f the employment. Trade i s the


` This number does not includepopulation of SouthOsetiaandAbkhazia.
  EBRDiWorld Bank (2005) "Business Environment and Enterprise Performance". (BEEPS).


                                                     18

second largest sector o f the economy, accounting for 13 percent o f GDP and 11 percent o f
employment, while manufacturing accounts for 9 percent o f GDP and 5 percent o f employment.
Rebuilding existing infrastructure necessary to sustain growth, particularly private sector led
growth, inthe rural areas and rebuilding trade routes necessary to strengthen Georgia's status as
a transit economy i s therefore a top priority.

Due to a much improved fiscal stance -- underpinned by a stable macro-economic framework,
low inflation and growing revenues - the Government in the last two years has managed to
substantially increase investments in these areas. However, given that needs are much greater
than available resources, mobilization o f investments for rehabilitation and development o f
transport and energy infrastructure, including by the private sector, remains a major priority for
the Government, as evidenced in the recently issued Progress Report on the Economic
Development and Poverty Reduction Program (EDPRP).                  These areas are also a major area o f
cooperation with IDA, as evidenced by the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY 2006-09
and the First Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO) approved inAugust 2005.

Energy Sector Issues: Georgia consumes about 8 billion kWh o f electricity per year, o f which
about 60 percent i s domestic hydropower, about 30 percent i s domestic thermal power, and
nearly 10 percent i s electricity imports. The thermal plants are fueled by imported natural gas,
thus the import dependency in the electricity sector is considerable. Electricity consumption is
anticipated to grow by about 5 percent annually over the next three years. Georgia imports about
1.4 billion cubic meters o f natural gas, currently only from Russia, but with gas also to become
available from Azerbaijan in late 2006 through a new transit pipeline crossing Georgia from
Azerbaijan to Turkey.

Georgia i s well endowed with hydropower resources, particularly in the western region o f the
country. 2,700 MW o f hydropower have been developed, o f which currently about 1,800 MW
are operational. About 35 plants in operation produced 6,000 GWh in2004. Another 18 potential
hydropower plants have been analyzed, constituting 1947 MW and with a potential annual
production potential o f about 6,900 GWh9. Khudoni is considered the most attractive investment
opportunity among these possible plants. In addition, Georgia has about 370 MW o f thermal
power generation capacity that produced 800 GWh in 2004. With net imports o f electricity o f
1,200 GWh, overall power supply was 8,000 GWh. The dominant Enguri Hydropower Plant
(downstream o f Khudoni) produced 2,700 GWh in 2004. All plants are interconnected through
the transmission grid within the country and with neighboring countries Russia, Armenia,
Azerbaijan, and Turkey, although cross-border power exchanges are made in island mode except
with Russia.

The new Government has taken an active role in the energy sector, with considerable success,
notably for power. Availability o f power has substantially improved, and 24 hour service for
paying customers is a near-term reachable target for much o f the country (Le. beyond Tbilisi
where power is generally available). Problems o f electricity theft and non-payments have been
vigorously addressed.         Payment collections for UEDC, the dominant, state-owned power
distributor outside Tbilisi, were approximately 65 percent in the fall o f 2005 as compared to
about 25 percent in early 2004. Targeted investments to rehabilitate hydropower plants have

  GeorgiaElectricity Sector Least Cost Development Plan, September 1998 (USAID).


                                                      19

increased generation capacity, and progress has also been made to mitigate risks o f failure inthe
transmission system.            The deployment o f international management contractors in power
distribution, transmission, and for wholesale market functions, has contributed to the sector
improvements by adding professionalism, improving the utility companies' cost structures, and
through their successful efforts to fight corruption.

The progress in the power sector since the Rose Revolution has been achieved from an abysmal
starting point, and future challenges are plentiful. The Government has established an Energy
Sector Strategic Action Plan to guide its work. Among the major unsolved issues i s power sector
debt and liquidity. The Government, supported by international consultants, is preparing
legislation to address the sector debt, which at US$ 500 million i s unsustainable even as 80% o f
it is intrastate debt. In spite o f major financial improvements, some generating companies and
the power transmission company are under-funded, and some tariffs are below cost recovery
level".      However, the Government provides budgetary support to the sector, and the
contributions o f investment funds from international financial institutions are sizeable. The
Government plans to privatize assets in distribution and generation as soon as practically
possible. Current plans call for privatizations in 2006, although such a time schedule seems
optimistic.

In2004, the Government identifiedself-sustainability and energy secuvity as two mainpriorities
inits energypolicy. The goal is to create a profitable energy industrythat can sustain itself on
the basis of the financial flows from end consumers. To support its priorities, the Government
wants to ensure the most efficient use o f internal resources and a diversification o f supply points
for energy entering the country, using its geo-political location for transit arrangements to help
ensure energy security.            A cost-effective expansion o f domestic hydropower production is
viewed as a potential means to mitigate the financial impact o f increasing prices o f imported
fossil fuels and electricity while contributing to self-sustainability and energy security o f the
country.

For energy, this Infrastructure Pre-Investment Facility focuses on assessing the feasibility o f a
possible Khudoni Hydropower Plant (Khudoni HPP). Construction o f the Khudoni hydropower
plant in western Georgia (see annexed map) started in 1985, but was terminated unfinished in
 1989 due to the situation in the Soviet Union at the time. Also the earthquake in neighboring
Armenia in 1988 (Richter scale 6.9) impacted the decision to suspend building o f the dam and
power plant. Later (in 1992), the planned dam was redesigned to sustain extreme earthquakes
(Richter scale 9, vs. earlier 8).           Dam safety i s the most critical aspect o f hydropower plant
studies, including the planned feasibility assessments for the Khudoni HPP. Khudoni HPP i s
expected to be the least-cost large hydropower development available to Georgia.

Transport Sector Issues: Georgia's geographical position makes it an important transport link
between East-West (the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea) and North and South (between Russia
and Turkey). Trade with its neighbors, both transit and bilateral, i s also an important feature o f
Georgia's economy. Transit activities generate a direct turnover o f more that US$2 billion per
year. One o f the government's top priorities i s to develop Georgia's comparative advantage as a
transit country by improving its East-West Transport Corridor. The development o f oil resources

 10Electricity tariffs are about 6.8 U S centsikWhinTbilisi and about 4.7 US centsikWhin the regions


                                                         20

i s projected to increase the east-west flow o f oil and associated products".            The Government
recognizes that the full potential of its transit corridor has not been realized. The Government's
focus is modernizationo f the transit roadnetwork.

The road network in Georgia consists o f 1,474 kilometers o f main roads with about 70 per cent
in good to fair condition; 3,392 kilometers of secondary roads of which over 60 percent are in
poor condition and needrehabilitation; and 15,429 kilometers o f local roads most of which are in
very poor condition. The current condition o f the road network in Georgia reflects a severe
reduction in the resources allocated to road maintenance under the previous Government, from
the early 1990s to 2004. A recent sector review12 documents the decline in road maintenance
expenditures, from GEL125.1 million (US$59.5 million) in 1988 to GEL 24.8 million (US$12.4
million) in 2002, in nominal terms.           The poor state o f the highway network constrains the
movement o f goods and people among Georgia's cities, ports, and rural areas; and through
Georgia, along the transit corridor. The long transit times, despite the relatively short distance
and poor road conditions add to transport costs and deter usage o f the Georgian transit route.
According to work undertaken elsewhere in the region, poor road quality can raise transport
costs by between28-56%13, and inthe more extreme cases could result ina complete stoppage o f
service as transport operators become reluctant to operate on roads which are liable to damage
their vehicles.

Since coming to power, the new Government has focused on improvement o f road infrastructure.
Funding provided to the transport sector has increased substantially from GEL 51.4 million in
2003, to GEL 67.8 million in 2004 and GEL 121.4 million in 2005 with further increases
projected for 2006. Moreover, the Government recognizes the need to further improve funding
and management mechanisms to adequately maintain Georgia's roads. IDA financed transport
sector projects are assisting the RDMEDin developing cost-effective mechanisms to better align
maintenance expenditures with existing needs, through development o f a multi-year road
maintenance plan, introduction o f modem management technologies, application o f a new road
classification system, and development o f new road design standards. In view o f the poor road
conditions, IDA also approved in2004 a credit o f U S $20 million for the rehabilitation o f 500 to
750 km o f local and secondary roads, which currently is under implementation.

In addition to improved maintenance and road management the Government is focusing on the
modernization o f the East-West highway from Georgia's major Black Sea port o f Poti to the
Azeri Border at the Red Bridge. In 2005 the PPIAF funded a study which reviewed the
economic feasibility o f various improvement options on the East - West route with special
attention to the critical section between Tbilisi and Rikoti, as it carries the highest traffic volume
and the largest proportion o f heavy vehicles. The study analyzed the options to upgrade the
existing road to a highway with an alignment that would achieve the maximum design speed o f
 120 km per hour. The upgrade o f the existing road to four lanes or the construction o f parallel
2x2 motonvay both have acceptable economic rates o f return. The Government has selected the
option to upgrade the existing road and has requested the IDA support.



 II
 `'World
    USAID. GeorgianRailway Reshuchiring Program,draft May 2005.
         Bank. (2002) "Transport Sector Rei reiv of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia", ECSIE.
 `jWorld Bank, (2003a) Op crt


                                                       21

There has been no study on traffic accidents on Georgian roads. It is not known whether there
are comprehensive local or central records o ftraffic accidents, although the police are requiredto
record the details o f traffic accidents. Anecdotal evidence indicates that there i s a high accident
rate especially on the east-west transit route. The IDA report "Road Safety in Individual ECA
Countries" for 1999 suggests that for Georgia the social economic costs o f road traffic accidents
are approximately 1.l%      o f GDP. Accident studies and road safety issues should be an integral
component o f any road improvement studies.

Georgian Railway (GR) is located on the western part o f the land bridge connecting the Black
Sea and the Caspian Sea. Over half o f its traffic and revenue i s provided by transit oil and oil
products traffic moving from Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, and Azerbaijan to Georgia's Black Sea
ports o f Batumi and Poti. This traffic i s profitable, and provides the financial backbone for all
GR operations. GR traffic o f oil and oil products is forecast to grow substantially from 8.6
million to 18.7 million tons between 2004 and 201514. GR will need to invest an estimated
US$774 million over the next ten years to rehabilitate the railway and accommodate this traffic
growth. Georgian Railways (GR), with the support o f USAID consultant," has been analyzing
how it should restructure to become more commercial and financially viable.




l4 Booz Allen & Hamilton (BAH), most likely traffic forecast used in Strategy-Based Transformation and
Implementation Planfor Georgian Railway (October 2005). This growth takes into account the opening o f the Baku
- Tbilisi Ceyhan (BTC) pipeline. At 2004 exchange rates, this 10 million ton increase in traffic is worth US$70
         -
million inrevenue per year.
15Booz Allen & Hamilton.


                                                   22


      Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
             GEORGIA: INFRASTRUCTURE PRE-INVESTMENT FACILITY


This annex provides a short summary of related projects by IDA and other international agencies
inthe country, inthe energyandtransport infrastructure sector.

IDA-funded transportprojects:

   e    Transport Rehabilitation project, 1995-1999, with a credit amount o f US$12.0 million.
        The Government's focus was modernization of the transit road network. Project rated
        satisfactory.
    e   Restructuring of the Ministry of Transport project, 1998-2003, with credit amount of
        US$2.5. The project rated satisfactory.
    e   Roads project, 2000-2005, with credit amount of US$40 million. The project rated as
        satisfactory.
    e   Secondary and Local Roads project, 2004-2008, in amount of US$20 million. Project i s
        rated as satisfactory.

IDA-funded energyprojects:

        Power Rehabilitation Project, 1997-2000 inthe amount ofUS$52.3 million. Project rated
        satisfactory.
        Oil Institution Building TA Project, 1997-2000, in the amount of US$1.4 million. Rated
        highly satisfactory.
        Energy SECAC (adjustment credit), 1999-2002, in the amount of US$25.0 million.
        Project rated unsatisfactory.
        Electricity Market Support Project, 2001-2007, with credit amount SDR21 million.
        Project i s rated as satisfactory.
        Energy Transit InstitutionBuilding Project, 2001-2007. Credit amount is US$9.6 million.
        Project i s rated as satisfactory.

Other donor's major activities in infrastructure:

        KfW,2005, RehabilitationofPower DistributionI. million. (ongoing).
                                                                25
        KfW,2005, SectorProgram, Power Supply.8.3 million. (ongoing).
        KfW,2005, Regional PowerNetworkRehabilitationI. 0 million. (ongoing).
                                                                   1
        KfW,2005, Program for the PromotionofRenewable Energy. 5.1 million. (ongoing).
        KfW,2004, Power TransmissionRehabilitationProgramI1(BM).3.3 million.
         (ongoing).
    e   USAID, 2003, Georgian Energy Security Initiative (GESI)16.US$25 million. (ongoing).
    e   USAID, 2005, RuralEnergy andEnvironmentDevelopment. US$I3.5 million.(ongoing).
    e   USAID, 2004, Georgia Railways Restructuring Assistance. (Ongoing)


 16GESI financed Georgian Winter Heat Assistance Program and management contract of UEDC:


                                                     23

0 EBRD, 1998,Rehabilitation ofEnguriHydroPower Plant. US$30million. (ongoing)
0 EBRD, 2002, loan of $20 millionto Georgian Railways for rail and other track materials,
  track machines, 168 tank wagons and fiber-optic cables.
0 MCC, 2005, Rehabilitation ofthe North South Gas Pipeline. US$40million. (ongoing)
0 MCC, 2005, Javakheti Road Rehabilitation Project (US$103). (Ongoing)
0 PPIAF, 2005, Framework for Public Private ParticipationinRoad Sector. (ongoing).
0 TACIS, 2003, Rehabilitation of CaucasianHighways. Pre-feasibility study for
  Modernizationof the ExistingRoadPoti-Tbilisi-RedBridge, Georgia.




                                        24

                             Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
              GEORGIA: INFRASTRUCTURE PRE-INVESTMENT FACILITY

                                         Results Framework
PDO                                 ProjectOutcome Indicators              Use of       Project Outcome
                                                                           [nformation
Studies for preparation of          Sound investment decisions are
infrastructure investment projects  made, and where appropriate hrther     1. Ensurequality of

conducted.                          preparatory steps are taken and            implementationand its impact
                                    adequate financing is mobilized for        on achievementof PDO.

                                    investments.                           2.  EndPY3: Identify and assess
                                                                               needs for additional
I                                                                              investmentslfunding.

IntermediateOutcomes                Intermediate               Outcome Use             of       Intermediate
                                    Indicators                             Outcome Monitoring
Component 1.                         a. Feasibility study                  Delaysindelivery of reports and
                                        producedaccepted;                  bidding documentscomparedto
Studies for Khudoni Hydropower                                             agreed schedules would trigger
Plant Project completed.            b. Environmental and Social
                                        ImpactAssessment                   investigations into the causes and

                                        produced/accepted;                 remedial actions.

                                    c.  Decision to proceedwith the        Non-acceptanceof reportswould
                                        investmentproject, or              trigger review ofpossible quality
                                        otherwise, made by the             problems andremedial actions.
                                        Government;
                                     d. Detailed designs and bidding       Reluctance by the Governmentto
                                        documents produced accepted        make necessary decisions for work
                                        (this indicator i s optional based to proceedwould trigger
                                        on indicator "c" above).           investigation of causes and seeking
                                                                           for solutions.
                                    a. Preliminary Designsand              Delays indelivery of reports and
Subcomponent2.A.                        Environmental Impact               bidding documents comparedto
                                        Assessmentproducedaccepted;        agreed schedules would trigger
Studies for East-WestTransport      b.   Final designs and bidding         investigations into the causes and
Corridor Project completed              documents producediaccepted        remedial actions.
                                        for section 1;
                                     c.  Final designs andbidding          Non-acceptance ofreports would

                                        documents producedaccepted         trigger review ofpossible quality

                                        for section2;                      problems andremedial actions.

                                    d.   Final designs and bidding
                                        documents producedaccepted
                                        for section3.
 Component 2.                       a.  TBD (Decision on availability      Reluctanceby the Governmentto
 Subcomponent2.B.                       of funding, and if funding         make necessary decision on the
                                        available, on the scope of the     availability of funds and scope of
                                        project, will be made by the       component would trigger discussion
                                                                           on effective application of funds.
 Studies for Transit Corridor           Governmentby December

Project(s) Completed                    2006).




                                                     25

       x
       t?
       w
       s




4 4
8
d
3
3
cd


d




d                          s v1




rn      sVJ E  s v1   sv)




3




0

c


                             Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
            GEORGIA: INFRASTRUCTUREPRE-INVESTMENTFACILITY


The Project has two major components: Component 1 will finance T A for Khudoni Hydropower
Project preparation; Component 2, with two sub-components, will finance preparation o f Transit
Corridor projects. While Components 1 and 2.A. are clearly defined, the scope o f the sub-
component 2.B. i s broadly determined for transit corridor projects and depends upon the
availability o f funds remaining after funding needs for Component 1 and 2.A. are satisfied. In
addition, US$0.05 million has beenreserved for Incremental Operating Costs.

Component 1: TAfor Khudoni Hydro Electric Power Project Preparation (Component cost is
US$3.3 million)

The proposed Khudoni hydropower plant would be located in the Enguri River in a narrow
canyon with steep slopes. The Khudoni site i s situated about 32 km upstream o f the existing
Enguri hydropower/irrigation project which was completed in 1980.            Enguri comprises a
concrete arch dam with a structural height o f 272 m (the highest concrete arch dam inthe world)
and a crest length o f 728 m, including 123 m o f abutment length. Enguri's installed capacity i s
1,300 MW, but less than halfo fthis capacity has been available inlater years.

Construction o f the Khudoni hydropower plant started in full in 1985 (although officially in
1979)and was terminated unfinishedin 1989 due to the situation inthe Soviet Union at the time.
Also the earthquake inneighboring Armenia in 1988 (Richter scale 6.9) impacted the decision to
suspend building of the dam and power plant. At the time, the project comprised an arch dam
including spillway, diversion tunnel, coffer dams, water intake and penstocks, underground
power house, tailrace tunnels, low level water outlets, and a 500 kV switchyard and line. The
project was modified in 1992, notably the planned dam height was reduced by 29.5 m to 170.5 m
maximum height with crest length 420 m at 670 m elevation. The reduced dam height (and
possible other measures) would enable Khudoni to resist earthquakes o f category 9 (Richter
scale) as compared to category 8 for the original design. The nominal capacity to be installed in
the underground powerhouse was planned at 638 MW (three units o f 212.7 MW each, Francis
turbines). Based on the reduced dam height, the estimated average annual energy was 1,445
GWh. A 500 kV substation and transmission line would link Khudoni to the transmission grid.

A t the time o f termination o f the construction works in June 1989, the following works were
already completed or partially completed:


    0   Access road to Project Site
    0   Permanent and temporary roads, tunnels and bridges (40 km concrete road from Jvari to
        Khaishi; six tunnels, and 100 m long bridge over the Lakhanitskali river)
    0   Accommodation for constructionworkers
    0   Upstream and downstream cofferdams
    0   River diversion works duringconstruction
    0   Excavation o f the undergroundpower house and partial concreting
    0   Intake and headrace pressure tunnel


                                                28

       Excavation o f the undergroundpower house and partial concreting
       Access tunnels to undergroundpower house
       Lekhara River diversion tunnel into Khudoni reservoir
       Outdoor 500 kV substation.

The approximate progress o f the works as o fthat date were estimated as follows:

       60% o f earth moving and rock drilling operation for power unit foundation area
       80% o f earth moving and rock drilling operation for undergroundprofile o f arch dam, as
       well as 60% o f concrete placing works
       60% o f earth moving and rock boring operations for underground construction o f power
       unit, as well as 45% ofconcrete andreinforcedconcrete placingworks
       Construction diversion tunnel completed and water runtested
       70% o f road constructionworks
       Placement o f 83,500 m3o f concrete inthe dam foundation area o f left abutment
       40% o f works within flooded area
       Completed upstream and downstream cofferdams.

Due to civil war and lack of maintenance funds, many o f the works and structure have been
damaged over the twenty-five year period that has elapsed:

       The construction diversion tunnel exit portal has beenscoured and has collapsed
       The Lekara River diversion tunnel is blocked
       The sediment transported by the Lekhara River has accumulated on the area o f the dam
       foundation
       Builtconcrete foundation has beendamaged
       The current status o f the intake works/tunnels, headrace pressure tunnel, access tunnels i s
       not known due to landslides blocking the entrances
       Concrete mixing plant has been cannibalized
       Buildings and other structures are in poor condition; a saw mill has been set up in the
       area o f the auto transport mechanical shop
       Accommodations have deteriorated
       Storage and warehouse buildings are inbad shape
       Private saw mills have been set up in the area o f the 500 kV substation and laboratory
       building.

Existing investments have thus been substantially reduced in value, but presumably still
constitute valuable assets, by some accounts estimated at a magnitude o f $50 mill. The original
choice o f a concrete arch dam was made in the context o f the plan to build Khudoni in parallel
with or shortly after the Enguriconcrete arch dam. Today, various gravity and rock-fill dams are
interesting alternatives to the old design.

IDA would finance a study for the Khudoni Hydropower Project to assess its technical,
economic and financial viability while at the same time determine how a possible development
o f the hydropower project could be undertaken with adequate safeguards and solutions



                                                29

concerning the environment and socialh-esettlement impacts.            D a m safety will be given top
priority in the study. The study would include a review o f original design plans (Phase I);        an
assessment o n alternative dam and hydropower concepts (Phase II),           and the development of a
feasibility study for the selected alternative (Phase 111). Phase I11would also include analyses of
potential export markets for part of the Khudoni power as w e l l as financing options for the
project. If, on the basis of this Phase 1-111work, the project is determined to be feasible and
adequate safeguards solutions are identified and if the Government decides to proceed, a Phase
IV could be launched. Under Phase IV the consultants would develop detailed designs and
specifications, undertake a prequalification process, develop bidding documents for buildingthe
dam and power plant, and assist during the bidding process.                The IDA'S involvement in
financing and execution of Phase IV work, and the approach to Phase IV,would depend on the
planned ownership structure of the power plant and the availability of interested investors at the
time feasibility has been determined. A Panel o f Experts to review the consultants' dam design,
technical and environmental solutions, resettlement solutions and other aspects, would also b e
financed.   The feasibility study m a y show the need for expanded field work             - geological,
geoseismical, hydrological, etc. - which might incur a need for additional financing. The Phase
1-111work (to assess feasibility) is expected to take about 12 months, and the subsequent Phase
IV about 4 months, but there may be a significant time interval between Phase I11and IV for
decision making, project financing, and handling of other issues.               The Khudoni project's
environmental and social implications will be analyzed and developed under a separate TA
contract running in parallel with the technical studies in Phase 1-111and b e finished at the time
when the Government would decide whether to proceed into Phase IV o f the project (Le.
implementing the investment project).

Should the Khudoni HPP prove to b e economically attractive (and otherwise feasible), financial
analyses should b e determined and issues addressed concerning ownership and power sales.
Financial advisory services and possibly expanded market analysis would b e required, and
particularly inthe event o f a long-term export contract for part o f the Khudonipower, substantial
legal services would also b e required. Costs for such work would expectedly b e large, but might
substantially be carried by private sector investors in Khudoni. Nevertheless, some of the
mentioned work might best b e financed by the Government, and the IPF Project will make funds
available within what is uncommitted, consistent with Government priorities.

The Khudoni hydropower plant is expected to be the least-cost large-scale new hydropower
expansion available to Georgia. In a Georgia Electricity Sector Least Cost Development Plan
undertaken in 1998 with U S A I D funding, Khudoni is by a large margin the least cost project in
an assessment of 18 possible new hydropower plants. Khudoni's relative attractiveness seems
clear in spite o f the fact that the cost o f the project appears to b e significantly underestimated in
the study.

Component 2: TA for Preparation of Transit Corridor Projects (Component cost is US$2.55
million)

2. A. TAfor Preparation of East-West Highway Improvement Project (Sub-component cost is
US$I.6million)




                                                    30

The Government's priority is to start modernization o f the Red Bridge-Tbilisi-Poti transit road
from the most congested section from Natakhtari, which i s about 12 Km west o f Tbilisi to
Khashuri by upgrading the existing road from two lanes to four lanes.             Therefore, the
Government has allocated funds from its own budget to upgrade 15 Km o f the road from
Natakhtari to Agaiani. The Project will complete a feasibility study, preliminary design and
environmental assessment to continue this 4 lane upgrade fi-om Agaiani to Sveneti
(approximately Km44 mark to Km 80 mark), subdividingthe highway for analysis purposes into
three sections: Section 1 - Agaiani to Igoeti, Section 2 - Igoeti Bypass, and Section3 - Igoeti to
Sveneti. The preliminary review will be followed by detailed design and preparation o f the
bidding packages for each section. The environmental and social implications o f the corridor
improvement project will be analyzed as part o f technical studies.

2. B. TAfor Preparation of Other Transit Corridor Projects (Sub-component cost is US$0.95
million)

The scope o f this sub-component is broadly determined for transit corridor projects (road or
railways) and depends upon the availability o f funds remaining after funding needs o f the other
two priority components o f the project are satisfied. Increase in the estimated costs o f work on
Component 1 and/or Component 2.A. over and above estimates would be accommodated by
reducing or eliminating work under Component 2.B. The selection criteria for projects will be
guidedby their strategic importance, complexity, andmerit.




                                                31

                                 Annex 5: ProjectCosts
           GEORGIA: INFRASTRUCTURE PRE-INVESTMENT FACILITY



Project Cost By Component and/or Activity        Local      Foreign     Total
                                                 US$million US $million US $million

Component 1. T A for Khudoni Hydropower Project      0.8       2.5         3.3
Preparation
Component 2. T A for Preparation of Transit
Corridor Projects
   Subcomponent 2.A. TA for Preparationof East-      0.45       1.15        1.6
   West Highway Improvement Project
   Subcomponent 2.B. TA for Preparation o f Other    0.30      0.65         0.95
   Transit Corridor Projects
Incremental Operating Costs                          0.05       0           0.05




Total Baseline Cost                                  1.60       4.30        5.9
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
TotalProject Costs                                   1.60       4.30        5.9
Interest during construction
Front-end Fee
Total FinancingRequired                              1.60       4.30        5.9




                                            32

                           Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
            GEORGIA: INFRASTRUCTURE PRE-INVESTMENT FACILITY


The IPF Project will be implemented over a three year period from March 15, 2006 to March 15,
2009. The division o f institutional mandates, roles and responsibilities for the management o f
the program i s summarized below.

The responsibility for project implementation will lie with the two major sectoral agencies
(according to the project components) - Ministry o f Energy, and Ministry o f Economic
Development. These Ministries will draft Terms o f Reference for consultants, manage
procurement, sign contracts, supervise progress, and process payments for their respective
components.

For the Khudoni component the implementing agency will be the Ministry o f Energy. A Deputy
Minister, designated by the Minister, will be in charge o f the Project. Since procurement and
financial management skills required by IDA and necessary for Project implementation are
lacking within the Ministry, assistance in these areas will be provided by the Project Service
Organization (PSO) which has been established to support implementation o f the Electricity
Market Support Project (EMSP).        The PSO i s an entity under Public L a w reporting to the
Ministry o f Energy.    The entity has experience in managing IDA-financed projects.           The
activities o f the PSO under this Project will be under direct oversight o f the Deputy Minister.
The Ministry will be responsible for all other functions related to implementation o f this Project,
including inter alia decisions relating to the substance o f the consultants' work and decisions to
proceed with the various phases o f the work. After the closure o f the EMSP project, scheduled
for end o f 2007, the services o f the PSO to the IPF Project would be replaced by consulting
services procured by the Ministryo f Energy under the IPFProject.

The PSO accountant/financial management specialists will be responsible to set up and operate
the Project's financial management and accounting system according to IDA standards and to
keep and monitor project accounts for the Khudoni component. An auditor acceptable to IDA
will annually audit Project-related accounts, disbursements, and Statements o f Expenditures
(SOEs) according to international standards. The annual audit report will be submitted to IDA
within six months o fthe end o f each fiscal year.

Procurement for the Khudoni component would be carried out under IDA procurement
guidelines. The PSO will draft procurement documents for the Khudoni project, and will carry
out day-to-day contract management activities. However, M o E will be responsible for decision-
making issues such as decisions about evaluation committee members. Contracts will be signed
by the M o E and the contractors. Contract negotiations will be carried out by the M o E with
participation o f the PSO. M o E will keep originals o f all procurement documents with copies at
the PSO's premises.

Transit Corridor projects will be implemented by the Ministry o f Economic Development. The
Deputy Minister who i s responsible for the transport sector in the Ministry, will be designated by
the Minister to be in charge o f the Project. Since procurement and financial management skills



                                                 33

required by IDA, and necessary for project implementation are lacking within the Ministry,
assistance in these areas will be provided by the Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center
(TRRC). The TRRC was established in 1996 as an entity o f Public Law under the Ministry o f
Economic Development.

The main function of the TRRC will be assisting the implementing Ministry to undertake
procurement work, Project financial management and accounting, disbursements, financial
reporting, and auditing arrangements. The activities o fthe TRRC under this Project will be under
direct oversight of the Deputy Minister. The TRRC has experience in managing IDA-financed
projects having implemented four IDA-financed transport projects. (Ongoing Secondary and
local Roads project has a similar implementation arrangement, whereby the TRRC assists the
Roads Department of the Ministry o f Economic Development based on the specific agreement).
The Ministrywill be responsible for all other functions related to implementation o f this Project,
including inter alia decisions relating to the substance o f the consultants' work and decisions
relating to entering the various phases o f the work.

The TRRC accountantifinancial management specialists will be responsible to set up Project
financial and accounting system according to IDA standards and to keep and monitor project
accounts for the Transit Corridor component. An auditor acceptable to IDA will annually audit
Project-related accounts, disbursements, and Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs) according to
international standards. The annual audit report will be submittedto IDA within six months o f
the endo f each fiscal year.

Procurement under this Project will be carried out under the IDA procurement guidelines. The
TRRC will draft procurement documentation for Component 2 o f the Project, and will carry out
day-to-day contract management activities. However, MoED will be responsible for decision-
making. Contracts will be also signed by MoED and contractors. Contract negotiations will be
carried out by the MoED with participation o f TRRC. MoED will keep originals o f all
procurement documents with copies at TRRC premises.

All correspondence with Project stakeholders and/or consultants will be sent and received by the
respective implementing Ministry. All deliverables from the contractors will be received,
reviewed and accepted or rejected with certain comments by MoE and MoED for their respective
Project components. Project Operational Manuals are developed by PSO and TRRC, agreed
with the MoE and MoED, and approved by IDA. Project Operational Manuals incorporate
Financial Management section reflecting Treasury accounting and reporting.

The Ministry o f Finance will have the authority to make decisions and take actions concerning
the allocation o f the remaining amounts o f funds inthe Project.

Not later than December, 2006 the Government will review completed work on the studies under
Components 1 and 2.A and will determine whether funds are available to address Component
2.B, and within 30 days will develop the scope o f this component, acceptable to IDA. Any
increase in the estimated costs of work on Component 1 and/or Component 2.A. would be
accommodated by reducing or eliminating work under Component 2.B.




                                                  34

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
             GEORGIA: INFRASTRUCTUREPRE-INVESTMENTFACILITY


A. FinancialManagement


Country Issues. The most recent CFAA was conducted in September 2003 and updated in
March 2004. The CFAA assessed each component of the public expenditure management
framework throughout the report and analyzed the fiduciary risks in the system of internal
controls. The individual assessments took account o f the level and magnitude of risk presented in
each component. The CFAA team adopted the European Union's Public Internal Financial
Control Systems (PIFCS) model o f internal control as the basis for its analysis o f the
Government's internal control framework. Significant and serious weaknesses remain in many
parts of the public expenditure management system. However, the Government i s taking actions
to improve its systems of financial management. Particularly, the treasury function was
transferred from the NBG to the Treasury and a system for cash management has been
introduced. The severe cash shortages of the past few years appear to have been addressed. A
single treasury revenue account has been established. Treasury has committed itself to introduce
a Treasury Single Account effective from January 1, 2006. In addition, Treasury is devising
plans to rollout the central Treasury systems to its regional offices and is in the process o f
implementing a modern Treasury system with the support o f the proposed IDA-financed Public
Sector Financial Management Reform Support Project that is currently under preparation.

Inaddition, the IDA financial management team has reviewed the Treasury system and assessed
it as satisfactory for holdingspecial accounts ofthe project.

Strengths and Weaknesses. The significant strengths that provide a basis of reliance on the
Project financial management systems include: (i)     significant experience of P S O and TRRC in
implementing IDA-financed projects (1997 - PSO, 1996- TRRC); and (ii) good quality o f
                                                                               the
audit reports issued by PSO's and TRRC's project auditors for the past years; (iii)          highly
qualified staff and automated accounting system inplace.

There are n o significant weaknesses identified either in PSO nor in TRRC. However,
implementing arrangements between MOE and PSO, as well as between MOED and TRRC need
to be clarified, particularly in terms of reporting and ministries' involvement in the support
functions o f the Plus. There i s a remote risk that the Treasury (i) fail to provide the types
                                                                    would
of services and the quality o f those services required to implement both components of the
Project; as well as (ii)delay with the provision o f funds under the project if the country
experiences cash shortages. Agreement is reached with the borrower to mitigate those
weaknesseslrisks.

Funds Flow. Project funds will flow from (i) either via two Special Accounts (Treasury
                                                  IDA,
foreign currency sub accounts in the National Bank o f Georgia) to b e maintained in the Treasury
for each o f the two components o f the project, which will be replenished on the basis o f SOEs or
by direct payment o n the basis of direct payment withdrawal applications, received from
implementing agencies, and (ii)the Government, via the Treasury through normal Budget


                                                 35

allocation procedures initiated by the implementing agencies in accordance with standard
Georgian Treasury and Budget execution regulations. Those funds will be used to finance
eligible expenditure under the project.

Staffing. There is only one accountant/financial manager at the PSOresponsible for accounting,
statutory and management reporting, budgeting, banking, disbursements and other financial
management functions. Those responsibilities are defined in the current FMM and the financial
manager's TOR. The financial manager works based on an open ended contract untilthe end o f
the project. A part time accountant may need to be recruited during the initial stage o f the
project implementation to manage the expected increase in the workload on the accounting
personnel as a result o f following Treasury procedures for funds disbursement.

TRRC includes the Director, a finance team comprising Financial Manager and part-time
Accountant, a Procurement Specialist, and infrastructure specialist. There are formally
documented duties and responsibilities o f the staff which i s recruited on half a year contract
duration. There may be a need to transfer the part time accountant o f the TRRC to a full time
position during initial stage o f the project implementation and enhance the segregation o f duties
betweenaccounting personnel.

Financial Managers o fboth PIUs have beenworking intheir respective PIUs for many years.

Accounting Policies and Procedures. The PSO and TRRC follow Georgian accounting
standards. The accounting books and records are maintained on a cash basis and project financial
statements are presented in United States dollars. The Financial Management Manuals o f both
PIUs were updated to the new specifics o f the project and also to reflect Treasury accounting and
reporting procedures.

Internal Audit. Neither PSO nor TRRC have internal audit function and none is considered
necessary given the size o f the PIUs.

External Audit. The auditing arrangements for the project will follow the standard procedures
adopted for ECA.

The audit o f the project will be conducted by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank
and on terms o f reference (TOR) acceptable to IDA. There i s a List o f audit firms eligible to
perform audits o f IDA-financed projects in ECA countries, which i s updated regularly, and there
i s a standard audit TOR applicable for ECA, which is also updated regularly to take account o f
the developments in the overall Bank audit policy. The Project will choose the auditor from the
above-mentioned List and will use the ECA standard audit TOR as a basis for preparation o f its
own audit TOR, which i s to be cleared with the project FMS annually irregardless o f the term o f
contracts concluded with the auditors (one year contract or several years contract).

The contract for the audit awarded during the first year o f Project implementation may be
extended from year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. The cost
o f the audit will be financed from the proceeds o f the credit.




                                                  36

                                   Table 7.2. Auditing Arrangements

I                       Audit ReDort                         I           Due Date             I
 Financial statements - continuing entity                      Not applicable.
 Financial statements  -  TKRC and PSO are based on the      11Within six months of the end of
 quarterly FMRs and      include balance sheet, summary o f each fiscal year and also at the
 sources and uses of funds, summary of uses o f funds by closing of the project
 project components, SOE summary schedule, statement o f
 Special Account andnotes to financial statements
 Other (specify)                                               None

 Single audit opinion is required for every component of the Project on all the above listed
 financial statements.

 Reporting and Monitoring. Project management-oriented Financial Monitoring Reports
 (FMRs) will b e used for project monitoring and supervision and the indicative formats of these
 have already been discussed with bothPSO and TRRC and agreed with IDA.

 Information Systems. TRRC and PSO implemented ORIS accounting package, which is used
 by a number o f PIUs inGeorgia and considered to be reliable and flexible system. BothPIUs are
 goingto use the same system for the new Project. The accounting software of both entities need
 to be updated to produce the necessary financial reports required by the project and to reflect
 Treasury accounting and reporting procedures.

 Supervision Plan. During project implementation, IDA will supervise the Project's financial
 management arrangements in two main ways: (i)       review the project's quarterly F M R s and six-
 monthly management reports on two separate components, as well as the project's components
 annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii)during IDA
 supervision missions, review the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements
 (including a review o f a sample o f SOEs and movements o n the Special Accounts) to ensure
 compliance with IDA'Sminimum requirements. A s required by IDA and ECA guidelines,
 Country Financial Management Specialist for Armenia and Georgia will carry out regular FM
 supervisions o f the project.

 B. DisbursementArrangements

 A designated account will be maintained at the Central Bank of Georgia under terms and
 conditions acceptable to IDA. The account will b e denominated in US$ with an authorized
 allocation not exceeding US$500,000. Documentation of project expenditure and requests for
 replenishment o f the designated account (according to project component) will b e prepared by
 the Ministry o f Energy, Ministry of Economic Development, and the Treasury submitted to IDA
 at regular intervals though monthly reporting is encouraged. Proceeds o f the grant will be used
 to finance  consultants services as described in the detailed procurement plan.        Statement of
 expenditure (SOE) procedure will used for payments against contracts below USS200,OOO
 equivalent for consulting firms and US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants and
 incremental operating costs; all other expenditures reported through summary sheets will require



                                                  37

full supporting documentation. The implementing agencies will be required to retain all
documentation to support payments out o f the designated account and to make these available to
internal and external auditors, and to IDA supervision missions. Direct payments, if required,
may be made from the Grant and the minimum application size will be US$lOO,OOO equivalent.
The designated account will be subject to annual audit in accordance with terms o f reference
approved by IDA and by independent auditors to be agreed with IDA.

                            Table: 7.4. Allocationof ProposedGrant


           Expenditure Category                 Amount inUS$ million    Financing Percentage
Consultancy services and incremental                      5.00                 85%
operating costs




                                               38

                             Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
            GEORGIA: INFRASTRUCTUREPRE-INVESTMENT FACILITY


A. General

There will b e no procurement o f goods and works under the Project, which will only finance
procurement of consultants services and certain technical services like translations and
advertisements.

Procurement for the proposed Project would be carried out in accordance with IDA "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated M a y 2004
(Consultant Guidelines) and the provisions stipulated inthe Grant Agreement. The various items
of expenditure are described ingeneral below. For each contract to b e financed by the Grant, the
different selection methods, estimated costs, prior review requirements and time frame have'been
agreed between the Recipient and IDA and summarized in the Procurement Plan. Procurement
o f a limited number of very small contracts for translation and advertisements will also follow
procedures acceptable to IDA. The Procurement Plan will b e updated at least quarterly or as
required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity.

Procurementof Goods:As stated above, there will be no procurement of goods contracts.

Procurement of Non-consultingServices:As stated above, there will be a limited number o f
very small contracts for translations and advertisements.

Procurementof Works: As stated above, there will be no procurement ofworks contracts.

Selection of Consultants:Consulting services will be required to carry out feasibility studies,
environment and social impact assessments, preliminary and detailed designs, preparation of
technical specifications, bidding documents, support for conduct of bidding incl. evaluation and
award of contracts etc. One large contract will b e made for a feasibility study to continue to
develop the Khudoni dam and hydropower plant. The selection methods to be used in this case
will be QBS as this is a technically complex assignment with a high downstream impact and
whose inputs are difficult to estimate in advance.         QCBS or L C S will b e used for the
environment and social impact assessment o f the Khudoni Project. A number of assignments
under Component 2 are n o w estimated at about US$200,000 and will b e procured under CQS.
However, the estimates are uncertain.     QCBS will b e the selection method indicated for the
assignment which attempts to combine works under the remaining sections of the highway into
one relatively large contract.

Short lists for consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO     equivalent per
contract m a y be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f
paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. No contracts that would engage ineligible
government-owned institutions, NGOs or individual consultants are envisaged.




                                                 39

Operating Costs: There will be a small allocation o fUS$50,000 to cover incremental operating
costs (IOC) mainly inthe form o f costs for necessary translations and advertising.

Other Activities: There will be no study tours or training activities under the Grant.

The selection procedures and documents to be used for each method, as w e l l as model contracts
will be those presented inthe respective PIU's Project Operational Manual.

B. Assessment ofthe Agency's Capacity to ImplementProcurement

The selection o f consulting services contracts and the administration and management of
contracts would b e handled by two entities: (i) PSO being the PTU for the Electricity Market
                                                 the
Support Project (ESMP) would assist the MOE to handle procurement with respect to the
assignments related to the Khudoni Project (ii)  the TRRC would assist the MOED to handle the
assignments required for the preparation o f Transit Corridor Projects. B o t h named agencies are
experienced in IDA-financed procurement while their respective clients have n o such experience.
The two sets of agencies working intandem are deemed capable o f taking on the additional work
required by the various studies and assignments (altogether no more than a dozen) required under
the Grant. Each agency's respective administrative procedures have been examined, are found to
b e deficient in some respects and need some improvements to become acceptable to IDA.

Assessments of the capacity o f each of the two implementing agencies to implement
procurement actions under the Grant Agreement were camed out in November and December
2005. The assessments reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the project and
the interaction between each agency staff responsible for procurement and the respective
Ministry's relevant central unit for administration and finance.

The k e y issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation o f the project have been
identified and are further described in the respective reports. Corrective measures have been
agreed and these are also described in sufficient detail in the two capacity assessments.

The overall risk for procurement inGeorgia is high.

C. ProcurementPlan

At appraisal, the Beneficiary developed a Procurement Plan (PP) for implementation of the
various assignments to be financed under the Grant. The PP summarizes the selection method to
b e followed. The PP was agreed between the Recipient and the project Team on January 10,
2006 and will be available at the PSO and TRRC at their respective addresses. The Plan will
also b e available in the Project's database and in the Bank's external website. The PP will b e
updated upon consultation with the project Team on a quarterly basis or as required to reflect the
actual implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.




                                                 40

D. Details ofthe ProcurementArrangements


1. Consulting Services and Technical Services (Cost details are suppressed).
(a) The Grant will finance the following list of consulting assignments.


                           2                        3               4          5          6           7

       Description                            I Estimated    I  Proc/Sel. I  Bank    I  Contr.   1 Contr     1
                                                  costs          Method     Review       start     Compl
                                                                                        Date       Date
       Component 1. TA for Khudoni
       Hydro ElectricPower Project




 4.




       Sub-component 2. A. TA for
       Preparationof East-West Highway
       ImprovementProject
       Preliminary DesigdEA 36 kmsection                          CQS         Prior     Apr-06    Jul-06
       Agaiani - Sveneti
       Detail DesigdBDs for 1st sectionof                         CQS         Prior     Jul-06    Sep-06
6      Agaiani - Sveneti
       ENLAP for 2nd sectionof IgoetiEast                         QCBS        Prior     Jul-06    Nov-06
       - Sveneti
       Detail DesigdBDs for 2nd sectionof                                                         Feb-07
       Agaiani - Sveneti
                    -

 8.4.  Detail DesigdBDs for IgoetiBridge                                                          Feb-07
       Preliminary DesigdEA for 3rd section                                                       Feb-07
       to be determined




* The scope o f this sub-componentwill be determined not later than December 31, 2006 basedupon availability of
funds.




                                                     41

 (b) Consultancy services for firms estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO           or equivalent per
contract will be subject to prior review by the Bank. All other consultant firms would be post
review.

(c) Individual consultants' contracts estimated at US$50,000 or more will be subject to Bank
prior review. All other individual consultant's contracts would be post review.

(d) Short lists o f consultants' assignments estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per
contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f
paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

(e)  No withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date o f the Financing
Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$200,000
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after January 1,2006.

E. Frequency of Procurement Supervision

In addition to the regular procurement prior review and supervision to be carried out from the
Bank's office in Tbilisi, the procurement capacity assessments recommend supervision missions
by IDA Team every six months in connection with regular supervision o f other projects. Post
review o f procurement actions will be carried out by the procurement staff stationed inTbilisi.




                                                 42

                         Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
           GEORGIA: INFRASTRUCTURE PRE-INVESTMENT FACILITY


This Project is going to finance only studies required for preparation of investment projects;
therefore no economic or financial analysis has beenconducted.




                                               43

                               Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
            GEORGIA: INFRASTRUCTURE PRE-INVESTMENT FACILITY

EnvironmentalAssessment

The IPF Project i s limited to the provision o f technical assistance for the preparation o f follow-
on investments, and no negative impact on the environment or society, therefore, i s expected
from the implementation o f the proposed TA. Since the follow-on investments under the
umbrella o f the IPF Project include components that would be at least Category B and possibly
Category A, however, the IPFProject i s classed as Category B.

Normally Category B projects require the preparation o f an Environmental (Safeguard)
Assessment and an associated Environmental Management Plan (EMP) as a condition o f
appraisal. These investment-specific due diligence instruments are not relevant to a technical
assistance facility. A Safeguard Framework (SF), however, i s a new approach to due diligence
on TA loans and has been prepared to meet the Bank's safeguard requirements.                 The SF
approach has been assessed by the Regional Safeguards Coordinator (ECSSD) and other relevant
experts and has been found to be in compliance with the Bank policy requirements. The SF
summarizes the approach to safeguards to be taken during the implementation o f the IPF Project,
which will include the preparation o f Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) and Social
Impact Assessments (SIAs) for the follow-on investments.          The assessment process will be
conducted in accordance with World Bank policies and guidelines. The discussion in the SF
covers the both the power and transport sector components.

Disclosure to the public o f assessment documents and public feedback is an essential part o f the
safeguard process. Inthis case the SF itself has been disclosed in country and through the World
Bank INFOShop. The SF outlines the disclosure process to be followed for the respective
components during the implementation o f the IPF Project and identifies the documentation to be
produced during implementation o f the IPF Project. SF is to be part o f Project Operational
Manuals to be followed duringproject implementation.

Natural Habitats: Not Applicable

Pest Management: Not Applicable

InvoluntaryResettlement

Although the IPF Project provides only for technical assistance, the follow-on projects would
potentially include elements o f resettlement and/or land acquisition. The technical studies for
Component 1 would include the preparation o f a Resettlement Action Plan for Khudoni, and
under component 2 similar plans would be prepared for those segments identified as triggering
this requirement.

IndigenousPeople: Not Applicable

Forests: Not Applicable


                                                  44

SafetyofDams: After consultation with the Legal Department it was considered that the
technical assistance under this project was not directly linked to this issue to warrant the
triggering o f Dam Safety Safeguard. It would be triggered, however, for any future investment
projects.

CulturalProperty: Not Applicable

Projectsin DisputedAreas: Not Applicable

Projectson InternationalWaterways

Since the EnguriRiver, on which a possible future Khudoni hydropower plant would be located,
flows into the Black Sea, the International Waterways safeguard (OP 7.50) has been triggered.
The Project is not expected to cause appreciable harm to the other riparians. The Commission
for the "Convention on the Protection o f the Black Sea Against Pollution" has been notified and
the internal and external notification requirements o f OP 7.50 have been met.




                                                45

                         Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
             GEORGIA: INFRASTRUCTUREPRE-INVESTMENT FACILITY                               ,


Project processing schedule:
                                         Planned                       Actual
PCNreview                                10/31/2005                    10/31/2005
Initial PID to PIC                       11/07/2005                    11/04/2005
Initial ISDS to PIC                      11/07/2005                    11/08/2005
Pre-Appraisal                            11/09/2005                    11/09/2005
Appraisal                                12/10/2005                    12/20/2005
Negotiations                             01/10/2006                    01/09/2006
BoardRVP approval                        02/14/2006
Planned date o f effectiveness           03/15/2006
Planned closing date                     09/30/2009

K e y institutions responsible for preparation o f the Project are the Ministry o f Energy for the
Component 1,and the Ministry o f Economic Development for the Component 2.

IDA staff and consultants who worked on the Project included:

Name                              Title                             Unit
Tamara Sulukhia                   Task Team Leader                  ESCIE
Bjorn Hamso                       Senior Energy Economist           ECSIE
Olivier L e Ber                   Senior Transport Specialist       ECSIE
Martha Lawrence                   Senior Transport Specialist       ECSIE
Elizabeth Wang                    Senior Financial Officer          ECSIE
Jane Ebinger                      Energy Specialist                 ECSIE
Elena Chesheva                    Operations Analyst                ECSIE
Karl Skansing                     Procurement Specialist            ECSPS
Arman Vatyan,                     Financial Specialist              ECSPS
Philip Moeller                    Safeguards Consultant             ECSIE
Joseph Melitauri                  Operations Officer                ECSIE
Satoshi Ishihara                  Social Development Specialist     ECSSD
Gennady Pilch                     Senior Counsel                    LEGEC

IDA funds expendedto date on Project preparation:
     1. Bank resources: US$ 100,000
    2. Trust funds:            0
    3. Total:             us$100,000

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remaining costs to approval:         US$30,000
    2. Estimated annual supervision cost:    US$80,000




                                                46

                          Annex 12: Documents in the ProjectFile
        GEORGIA: INFRASTRUCTURE PRE-INVESTMENT FACILITY


A. Bank Staff Assessments and Documents

    Financial Management Assessment Report, November 2005.
    Procurement Assessment Report, 2003.
    Assessment o f the Proposed Khudoni Dam and Hydropower Plant (HPP) in Georgia by
    P.N. Gupta, Consultant, August 2005.

B.  Other Documents

    Government o f Georgia. Safeguards Framework. December 2005.
    Khudoni Hydropower Project: Terms o f Reference for the Preparation o f Project
    Definition, Feasibility Study, and Procurement.
    Khudoni Hydropower Project: Terms o f Reference for Preparation o f Environmental
    Impact Assessment and Resettlement Action Plan.
    World Bank "Trade and Transport Facilitation inthe South Caucasus - Georgia Policy
    Note", 2003.
    World Bank, "Transport Sector Review o f Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia", 2002.
    East-West Corridor Improvement Financial Feasibility Report. PPIAF fundedProject
    "Framework for Public Private Participation inRoad Sector."
    TACIS fundedRehabilitation o f Caucasian Highways. Pre-feasibility study for
    Modernization o fthe Existing Road Poti-Tbilisi-red Bridge Georgia.
  e Report on Georgian Railways Restructuring. 2005. USAIDBooz Allen Hamilton.




                                            47

                                  Annex 13: Statementof Loans and Credits
                            GEORGIA: InfrastructurePre-InvestmentFacility

                                                                                                      Difference between
                                                                                                      expected and actual
                                                 Original Amount in US$ Millions                        disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                        IBRD       IDA       SF        GEF    Cancel. Undisb. Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO88820    2006 PRSO                             0.00     20.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00        0.00
PO78544    2005 RURAL DEVT                       0.00      10.00     0.00      0.00    0.00    8.99    0.55        0.00

PO86277    2004 SECILOC ROADS                    0.00     20.00      0.00      0.00    0.00   18.29    1.64         0.00

PO77368    2003 MUNIDEVT & DECENTRLZN2           0.00      19.41     0.00      0.00    0.00    9.09    3.60         0.15

PO74361    2003 SIF 2                            0.00      15.00     0.00      0.00    0.00    9.97    5.60         0.00

PO40555    2003 PRIM HEALTH CARE DEVT            0.00     20.30      0.00      0.00    0.00   19.27   13.23       -1.25

PO44800    2003 FORESTRY                         0.00      15.70     0.00      0.00    0.00   12.48    I.59         0.00
PO48791    2001 PROT AREAS DEV (GEF)             0.00      0.00      0.00      8.70    0.00    5.51    4.12       -0.36

PO54886    2001 ELEC MRKT SUPPORT                0.00      27.37     0.00      0.00    0.00   26.23   19.58       16.66

PO55068    2001 IWDRAINREHAB (APL #I)            0.00      27.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   28.51    9.62        -I.94

PO72394    2001 ENERGY TRANSIT INST BLDG         0.00       9.63     0.00      0.00    0.00    3.49    2.25         0.00
PO55173    2001 EDUC 1 (APL)                     0.00      25.90     0.00      0.00    0.00    8.61    6.07        -1.86

PO65715    2000 AGR RES EXT & TRG                0.00       7.60     0.00      0.00    0.00    2.27    2.10         0.41

PO64091    2000 AGRIC RES EXT TRG (GEF)          0.00       0.00     0.00      2.48    0.00    0.41    0.41        -0.04

PO52154    1999 STRUCT REF SUPPORT               0.00      16.50     0.00      0.00    0.00    4.99    4.73         3.1I

PO50911    1999 INTGD COASTAL MGMT               0.00       4.40     0.00       1.30   0.00    I.03    0.72         0.14

PO60009    1999 INTGD COASTAL MGMT (GEF)         0.00       0.00     0.00       1.30   0.00    0.62    0.55         0.27

PO57813    1999 JUDICIAL REFORM                  0.00      13.40     0.00       0.00   0.00    0.48    0.52         0.00
PO08416    1999 ENT REHAB                        0.00      15.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    0.65    0.56         0.00
PO39929    1998 SIF                              0.00      20.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    0.84   -3.85         0.00

                                         Total   000     28721       000       1378    0 0 0  161 73  7359         15 29




                                                      48

                                                           GEORGIA
                                                   STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                 HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                   InMillions ofU S Dollars


                                                            Committed                            Disbursed

                                                           IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval      Company                       Loan      Equity    Quasi   Partic.  Loan      Equity       Quasi  Partic.

2000             Bank of Georgia               0.80         0.00     0.00    0.00      0.80     0.00        0.00   0.00
2003             Bank o f Georgia              4.55         0.00     0.00    0.00      4.55     0.00        0.00   0.00
1998             Ksani                         4.92         0.00     2.50    0.00      4.92     0.00        2.50   0.00
1999              Procredit GEO                0.00         0.48     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.48        0.00   0.00
2001              Procredit GEO                0.00         0.29     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.29        0.00   0.00
2002              Procredit GEO                4.29         0.74     0.00    0.00      4.29     0.74        0.00   0.00
2004              Procredit GEO                3.50         0.67     0.00    0.00      3.50     0.67        0.00   0.00
1998              TBC Bank                     0.00         0.86     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.86        0.00   0.00
2002              TBC Bank                     1.91         0.00     0.00    0.00      1.91     0.00        0.00   0.00
2004              TBC Bank                     0.50         0.00     4.00    0.00      0.04     0.00        4.00   0.00
2006              TBC Bank                     0.00         8.75     0.00    0.00      0.00     8.73        0.00   0.00
2005              TBC Leasing                  3.00         0.00     0.00    0.00      2.00     0.00        0.00   0.00

                             Total portfolio:   23.47      11.79     6.50    0.00     22.01     11.77       6.50   0.00




                                                                       Approvals Pending Commitment
                  FY Approval     Company                          Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic.
               ~~~
                  1997            GGMW                           0.00         0.00       0.00        0.00

                                        Total pendingcommitment:    0.00      0.00       0.00        0.00




                                                                49

                                                 Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                  GEORGIA: InfrastructurePre-InvestmentFacility
                                                               Europe 8     Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central   middle-
                                                     Georgia      Asia     income          Development diamond'

2004
Population. mid-year(millions)                              4.5     472        2,430     I
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                         1,030    3,290       1.580                           Life expectancy

GNI(Atlasmethod, US$ billions)                              4.7    1,553       3,847

Average annual growth, 1998-04

Population (%)                                             -1.2      -0.1         1.0    i
Labor force (%)                                            -0.1     -0.5         0.7         GNI                                         Gross
                                                                                             per                                        p n m w
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1998-04)                                     capita                                  enrollment
Poverty (%of population belownationalpovertyline)
Urban population (%of to talpopulation)                     52        64          49
Life expectancyat birth (years)                             73        66          70     II                             -
Infant mortality(per1OOOlive births)                         41       29          33
Child malnutrition (%ofchildren under5)                       3                    11                Access to imorovedwatersource
Access to an improved water source (%ofpopulation)          76        91          81
Literacy(%ofpopulation age 159                                        97          90
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-age population)         90        101         114     1      -Georgia
  Male                                                       91      D 3          115                      Lowr-middle-income group
                                                                                                   ~
  Female                                                     90       101         1G

KEY ECONOMIC R A T I O S and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1984      1994      2003        2004            ~~                  ~~~    ~    ~
                                                                                           I E c o n o m i c ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                          2 5      4 0          5 1
Gross capital formationiGDP                      328        2 6     24 4
E q o r t s of goods and sewicesIGDP                       57 8      318                                               Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGDP                       353      -487        9 7
Gross national savingsiGDP                                -29 4       121

Current account balance/GDP                                 -111     -9 8        -8 5
Interest paymentsiGDP                                       0 2       10                     Domestic

Total debtiGDP                                             57 7     48 4                     savings                     k.          formation

Total debt sewiceieqorts                                     12       118
Present value of debtiGDP                                            38 0
Present value of debtlexports                                        99 5
                                                                                                                   Indebtedness
                                    1984-94 1994-04      2003      2004 2004-08
(average annualgro wth)
GDP                                     -145      5 7        111      8 5         4 9               ------Georgia
GDP percapita                           -144      7 0       123       9 6         4 2                        Lower-middle-income group
E q o r t s of goods and sewices                  108       4 8



STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                                1984      1994     2003        2004                                             ~-
                                                                                             Growth o f capital and G D P (Yo)
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                      257        517      20 5                    100

Industry                                         360        197      25 5                       50 '%
  Manufacturing                                  278        148       188                                                       -I L
                                                                                                                                -0      _ _
Sewices                                          383       286       54 1                        0      %'&e/';
                                                                                                          \ *                        ;      04


                                                                                             - -
Household final consumption expenditure          528      0 8 9      814                     100
General gov't final consumption eqenditure        119        9 8      8 9
 Imports of goods and services                             109 1     46 4                                    ---GCF              -GDP


                                                                                                                                               I
                                            1984-94 1994-04        2003        2004          Growth o f exports and%-ports               (%)
 (average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                                 -0 2      1)5                    60

 Industry                                                    8 2      151
  Manufacturing                                              2 4      6 9
 Sewices                                                    120       t31

 Householdfinal consumption expenditure                      4 5      7 5
 General gov't final consumption ependiture                  2 4      4 9         2 2
 Gross capitai formation                                    129      28 0
 Imports of goods and serwces                                7 5      3 6


 Note 2004 data are preliminaryestlmates
 This table was producedfrom the Development Economics LDB database
 'Thediamonds showfour key indicators in thecountry(in bo1d)comparedmth its income-groupaverage ff data are missing thediamondmll


                                                                        50

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                 1984     1994       2003   2004        Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                      ~




(% change)                                                                            25 T
Consumer prices                                     .. 15.606.5        4.8    5 2
Implicit GDP deflator                              1.3  6,041.6        3.5    4 9

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     0
Current revenue                                            11.7      15.4            I            99    00     01       02          03     041
Current budget balance                                    -22.5       -0.8                         -GDP       deflator  +CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                   -26.3       -2.5


TRADE
                                                 1984     1994       2003   2004
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                        381        831    556
 Aircraft, spacecraft and parts thereof (HS88)                0        37
 Beverages, spirits and vinegar (HS 22)                       9       102
 Manufactures                                              331        424
Total imports (cif)                                        744      1,467   1312
 Food                                                      184        236
 Fuel and energy                                           278        210
 Capital goods                                              88        229
                                                                                                98    99   00     01     02        03    04
Export price index (2000=100)                               110       127
import price index (2000=100)                               109       120                            Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (2000=100)                                   101       106

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                 1984     1994       2003   2004
(US$ millions)                                                                        ,lCurrent account balance to GDP      ( O h )


Exports of goods and services                               473      1,273  1128
Imports of goods and services                               893      1.856  1766
Resource balance                                           -420      -583    -637

Net income                                                  -30        34     22
Net current transfers                                       173        158    185

Current account balance                                    -278      -391   -430

Financing items (net)                                       280       384     509
Changes in net reserves                                      -2          7     79       -15 1
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US%millions)                        43        192    187
Conversion rate (DEC, locai/US$)                            0.4        2.1    1 9


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                 1984     1994       2003   2004                     __               -~
                                                                                             ~~




(US$ millions)                                                                           Composition of 2003 debt (US$ mill )

Total debt outstanding and disbursed                      1,450      1,935
  IBRD                                                        0          0
  IDA                                                         1        583                              F 47     38


Total debt service                                            6        181
  IBRD                                                        0          0
  IDA                                                         0          4

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                                           172         81
  Official creditors                                         94         15
  Private creditors                                          -1        -18
  Foreign direct investment (net inflows)                     8        338
  Portfolio equity (net inflows)                              0          0                                   D 160

World Bank program
  Commitments                                                28         20               A - l6RD                               E - Bilateral
  Disbursements                                               1         44               B IDA
                                                                                           -         D -Other multilateral      F Pnvate
                                                                                                                                   -
  Principal repayments                                        0          0               C - IMF                                G - Short-tern
  Net flows                                                   1         44
  Interest payments                                           0          4
  Net transfers                                               1         40


Note' This table was produced from the Development Economics LDB database.                                                             8/25/05




                                                                       51

MAP SECTION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 34376

                40                                                 41                                                       42                                                      43                                               44                                               45                                                 46


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G E O R G I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INFRASTRUCTURE PRE-INVESTMENT
 To                                                                                         R U S S I A N                     F E D E R A T I O N                                                                                                                                                FACILITY
Soci
  


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROAD SECTION STUDIED UNDER THE PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GLACIER AREAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EAST - WEST ROAD CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAIN ROADS
                             Gagra
                             Gagra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SELECTED CITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EAST - WEST RAILWAY CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OTHER RAILWAYS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROPOSED KHUDONI HYDROPOWER PLANT



43                                                                  Sokhumi
                                                                     Sokhumi                                                                                Enguri         Mestia
                                                                                                                                                                           Mestia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43




                                                                                               Tkvarceli
                                                                                               Tkvarceli
                                                                                                                    Akarmara
                                                                                                                    Akarmara
                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                                              Proposed KHUDONI Hydropower Plant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Vladikavkaz                                          0        15     30       45     60     75 KILOMETERS


                                                                                                                                  Enguri Hydropower Plant
                                                                                      Ocamcira
                                                                                      Ocamcira
                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                  Dzvari
                                                                                                                                  Dzvari
                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kazbegi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kazbegi

                                                                                                                                                                                                               Oni
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Oni
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Rioni
                                                                                                             Enguri     Zugdidi
                                                                                                                        Zugdidi                                      Chenisckali
                                                                                                                                                                                  i Ambrolauri
                                                                                                                                                                                    Ambrolauri
                          B       l       a      c      k                                                                                                                     Rion                                                                                      Aragvi


                                                                                                                                                     Chaltubo
                                                                                                                                                     Chaltubo                                                Sachere
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sachere
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R U S S I A N
                                                                                                                                                                                         Tkibuli
                                                                                                                                                                                         Tkibuli
                                                                                              Kulevi
                                                                                              Kulevi                              Senaki
                                                                                                                                  Senaki                                                                         Kvirilk
                                                                                                                                                             Kutaisi
                                                                                                                                                             Kutaisi                                                                      Chinvali
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Chinvali                                                                                                         F E D E R A T I O N
                                                                                                                                                                           Brotseula
                                                                                                                                                                           Brotseula
                                 S         e     a                                                                                 Rioni                                                                                                                                                          Iori
                                                                                                                                                           Mukhiani
                                                                                                                                                           Mukhiani
                                                                                                   PotiPoti                   Samtredia
                                                                                                                              Samtredia                                                   ZestaponiZestaponi       Surami
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Surami                                             Project Study:
                                                                                                           Supsa
                                                                                                           Supsa                                                                                                                                                      AGAIANI-SVENETI              Ahmeta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ahmeta
42                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         42

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Alazanl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KhasuriKhasuri
                                                                                                                               Ozurgeti
                                                                                                                               Ozurgeti                                                                                                     GoriGori                                                                  Telavi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Telavi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lagodehi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lagodehi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mtkvari          Mtskheta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mtskheta
                                                                                                    KobuletiKobuleti                                                                                          Borjomi
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Borjomi                                                   (Kura)        Zagesiagesi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Zagesi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Gurdzaani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Gurdzaani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bakuriani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bakuriani                                           TBILISITBILISI                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Fonichalaonichala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Fonichala                                                                     Zagatala
                                                                                            Batumi
                                                                                            Batumi                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Iori

       40                                                     41                                                                                                          Vale
                                                                                                                                                                            Vale         Ahalcihe
                                                                                                                                                                                         Ahalcihe                                                                                                                                                 Snoris Tskali
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Snoris Tskali
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RustaviRustavi

                                                                                             To Trabzon
    U K R A I N E                                             KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                Marneuli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Marneuli        Gardabani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Gardabani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dedopis-Ckaro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Dedopis-Ckaro
                                                                                                           roki
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ahalkalaki
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ahalkalaki                                                                                  Vakhtangisi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Vakhtangisi
                                 RUSSIAN                                                               Cho                                                                                                                                                        Kazreti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kazreti
                                FEDERATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Red Bridge
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Red
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ed Bridge

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ninocminda
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ninocminda                                                                                            Gazah           Mtkvari                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (Kura)
   B l a c k  S e a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Alazan
                                                       C a s p i a n                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                  GEORGIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Iori
                                                         S e a                                                                   T U R K E Y                                                                                                            To Tasir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Alaverdi
                                    Tbilisi                               TURKMENIST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            41
                                        ARMENIA                                          41                                                                                                                                 To Gyumri
                                               AZERBAIJAN
                                                                                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
             T U R K E Y                                                            AN              on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                           A R M E N I A
                                                                                                    judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                    acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A Z E R B A I J A N


                SYRIAN ARAB REP.    IRAQ          ISLAMIC REP. OF IRAN                                                   42                                                          43                                                44                                                     45                                                 46

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DECEMBER 2005

