Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H204 GE 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Infrastructure Pre-Investment Facility) 
 
between 
 
GEORGIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 8, 2006 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H204 GE 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated March 8, 2006, between GEORGIA (
“Recipient”) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”). The Recipient 
and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to three 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,500,000) 
(“Grant”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Grant Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Recipient has made appropriate arrangements for its fiscal year 2006  to 
cover its contribution to the financing requirements of the Project. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance of the Recipient. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
70, Irakli Abashidze Street 
0162 Tbilisi 
Georgia  
Telex:  
 
212 348 MOFIN 
Page  4
-
3
-
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
GEORGIA 
 
By /s/ Aleksi Aleksishvili 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Van Roy Southworth 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to facilitate infrastructure investments that have 
strategic importance and/or special complexity by ensuring that proper feasibility work is 
carried out in a timely manner in order to enable the 
Recipient’s government to make 
sound investment decisions, and where appropriate, to proceed expeditiously with further 
preparatory steps and mobilize adequate financing for implementation.  The Project 
consists of the following components: 
 
Component 1
:
Khudoni Hydropower Project Preparation
Carrying out a phased study for the Khudoni Hydropower project to assess its 
technical, economic and financial feasibility, with proper attention to environment, social, 
resettlement and other safeguard considerations and, subject to the outcomes of the 
feasibility assessments, preparation of detailed designs and specifications, and 
procurement-related and financial advisory services assistance. 
Component 2
:
Preparation of Transit Corridor Projects
(a) 
Preparation of East-West Highway Improvement Projects 
Carrying out a feasibility study, preliminary design and an environmental 
assessment for the East-West Highway improvement projects, and subsequent 
preparation of detailed designs and specifications, and procurement-related assistance. 
(b) 
Preparation of the Transit Corridor Projects 
Carrying out technical and financial feasibility studies, environmental 
assessment, and designs for proposed transit corridor projects, to be selected in 
accordance with their strategic importance, complexity and merit. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional  Arrangements
1. 
The MOE shall be responsible for the implementation of Component 1, in 
accordance with the Project Operational Manual, and shall be assisted in financial 
management, disbursement, and procurement functions by the PSO. 
2. 
The MOED shall be responsible for the implementation of Component 2, in 
accordance with the Project Operational Manual, and shall be assisted in financial 
management, disbursement, and procurement functions by the TRRC. 
3. 
The MOF shall be responsible for decisions and actions concerning the allocation 
and reallocation of funds under the Project. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
quarterly Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association. Each 
quarterly Project Report shall cover the period of three (3) month, and shall be furnished 
to the Association not later than one (1) month after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation of the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient, 
through the MOE and the MOED, shall prepare and furnish to the Association, as part of 
the Project Reports not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient, commencing 
with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project  was made. The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 Definitions. 
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B
.
Particular Method
s
of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Me
thods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Quality-based Selection 
(b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)  Least Cost Selection 
(d)  Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(e)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the  Consultants Guidelines for 
the Selection of Individual Consultants 
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, and each contract for consultants’ services provided by individuals 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, shall be subject to Prior Review by 
the Association.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the category of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing
 (“Category”), and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in the Category: 
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
Consultants’ services, and 
incremental operating costs 
3,500,000 85% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
3,500,000
For the purposes of the table in this paragraph 2, the term “incremental operating 
costs” means reasonable and necessary incremental expenditures, as approved by the 
Association on the basis of budgets and plans acceptable to the Association, and incurred 
by the Recipient, PSO, or TRRC with respect to Project implementation, management 
and monitoring, including, but not limited to, advertisement and translation expenses. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period  
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement,  except that withdrawals up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent may be made for payments 
made prior to this date but on or after January 1, 2006, for Eligible Expenditures under 
the Category in Section IV.A.2 of this Schedule 2.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2009. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that adequate annual budgetary allocations are being 
made to cover the Recipient’s contribution to the financing requirements of the 
Project. 
2. 
For road-related projects under Component 2, the Recipient shall ensure that 
design and construction standards recommended by the European Committee for 
Standardization on Construction and Design of Roads shall be used. 
3. 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association, not later than December 31, 2006, 
its plans for the carrying out of Component 2.B of the Project taking into account 
the availability of Grant proceeds not committed for activities under Components 
1
and 2.A of the Project. 
Page  10
-
9
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in paragraph 2 of Section IV 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
3. 
“MOE” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Energy. 
4. 
“MOED” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Economic Development. 
5. 
“MOF means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance. 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
7. 
“Project Operational Manual” means the Project Operational Manual adopted by 
the MOE and the MOED, and describing the rules and procedures of Project 
management, operation and implementation, including, as an attachment, the 
Safeguard Framework, and satisfactory to the Association. 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s Procurement Plan for the Project, 
acceptable to the Association, dated January 10, 2006,
.
and referred to in 
paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs . 
9. 
“PSO” means  “Electricity Market Support Project Service Organization,” a legal 
entity established under the Recipient’s Law on Public Legal Entity, dated  
May 28, 1999, by the Recipient’s Ministry of Fuel and Energy and Ministry of 
Finance, pursuant to Joint Order No. 51-254, issued on October 31, 2001, and 
registered on November 1, 2001, by the Recipient’s Ministry of Justice.  
10. 
“TRRC” means the Eurasia Transport Corridor Investment Center/Transport 
Reform and Rehabilitation Center, established pursuant to President of Georgia’s  
Order No. N-119, dated April 16, 1995, and re-established as a legal entity under 
the Recipient’s Law on Public Legal Entity, dated May 28, 1999, pursuant to 
President’s Order No. N-161, dated April 21, 2000.
.
11. 
“Safeguard Framework” means the document adopted by the Government of the 
Recipient on December 7 2005, and satisfactory to the Association, which 
Page  11
-
10
-
describes the rules and procedures related to environmental, social, and other 
safeguard policies to be followed during Project implementation. 
 
