Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  12/21/2005 
Report No.:  34828
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Georgia 
Project ID:  P098850 
Project Name:   Infrastructure Pre-Investment Facility 
Task Team Leader:  Tamara Sulukhia 
Estimated Appraisal Date: December 12, 
2005 
Estimated Board Date: February 14, 2006 
Managing Unit:  ECSIE 
Lending Instrument:  Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector:  General energy sector (55%);General transportation sector (45%) 
Theme:  Infrastructure services for private sector development (P);Trade facilitation and 
market access (S);Export development and competitiveness (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
5.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.90
0.90 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The development objective of the project is to facilitate infrastructure investments that 
have strategic importance and/or special complexity by ensuring that proper feasibility 
work is carried out in a timely manner in order to enable the government to make sound 
investment decisions, and where appropriate, to proceed expeditiously with further 
preparatory steps and mobilize adequate financing for implementation.  The considered 
areas include energy and transport, consistent with Governments investment priorities 
and CPS objectives.  Specifically, the project will finance technical assistance (TA) to 
ensure feasibility (or otherwise) and effectiveness of considered investments through 
preparation work including technical and sectoral studies, engineering design, and 
analysis of economic, financial and environmental feasibility, as well as financial and 
legal advisory services, where required. The facility will support the delivery of these 
outcomes with details to be worked out on a case-by-case basis.   
 
3. Project Description 
The IPF Project has two major components: Component 1 will finance TA for Khudoni 
Hydropower Project preparation; Component 2, with two sub-components, will finance 
preparation of Transit Corridor projects.  While Components 1 and 2.A. are clearly 
Page  2
defined, the scope of the sub-Component 2.B. is broadly determined for transit corridor 
projects and depends upon the availability of funds remaining after funding needs for 
Component 1 and 2.A. are satisfied.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
See Project Description.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Philip W. Moeller (ECSIE) 
Ms Jane Olga Ebinger (ECSIE) 
Mr Satoshi Ishihara (ECSSD) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The IPF Project is limited to the provision of technical assistance for the preparation of 
follow-on investment, and no negative impact on the environment or society, therefore, is 
expected from the implementation of the proposed TA project.  Since the follow-on 
investments under the umbrella of the IPF Project include components that would be at 
least Category B and possibly Category A, however, the IPF Project is classed as 
Category B.  
 
Normally Category B projects require the preparation of an Environmental (Safeguard) 
Assessment and an associated Environmental Management Plan (EMP) as a condition of 
appraisal.  These investment-specific due diligence instruments are not relevant to a 
technical assistance facility.  A Safeguard Framework (SF), however, is a new approach 
to due diligence on TA loans and has been prepared to meet the Bank’s safeguard 
requirements.  The SF summarizes the approach to safeguards to be taken during the 
implementation of the IPF Project, which will include the preparation of Environmental 
Impact Assessments (EIAs) and Social Impact Assessments (SIAs) for the follow-on 
investments.  The assessment process will be conducted in accordance with World Bank 
Page  3
policies and guidelines.  The discussion in the SF covers the both the power and transport 
sector components.  The SF has been reviewed by the Regional Safeguards Coordinator.  
 
Disclosure to the public of assessment documents and public feedback is an essential 
part of the safeguard process.  In this case the SF itself has been disclosed in country and 
through the World Bank INFOShop. The SF outlines the disclosure process to be 
followed for the respective components during the implementation of the IPF Project and 
identifies the documentation to be produced during implementation of the IPF Project.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The EIAs and SIAs to be prepared under the project would identify the potential indirect 
and/or long term terms impacts of the anticipated future activities.  The Khudoni project 
would be a category A project since it involves the completion of a major high dam and 
reservoir complex. Both the road and rails projects would most likely be category B 
unless there would be major new alignments or other risks identified in the EIAs.  
 
Although the IPF Project provides only for technical assistance, the follow-on projects 
would potentially include impacts that would trigger the safeguard policies for 
resettlement and/or land acquisition.  The technical studies for Component 1 would 
include the preparation of a Resettlement Action Plan for Khudoni, and under 
Component 2 similar plans would be prepared for those segments identified as triggering 
this requirement.  Since the Enguri River, on which a possible future Khudoni 
hydropower plant would be located, flows into the Black Sea, the International 
Waterways Safeguard (OP 7.50) has been triggered, and accordingly the Commission for 
the “Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea Against Pollution” has been notified.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A for the current project, but project alternatives will be considered for the follow-on 
works.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The borrower has prepared the Safeguard Framework and will prepare TORs for the 
EIAs and the SIAs for all components of the project, as well as facilitate the local 
disclosure process.  These documents will meet both Georgian and World Bank 
requirements.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key Stakeholders include: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of the Economic Development, 
Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources, 
Ministry of Health and Social Services, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Refugees and 
Resettlement, Regional and Local Governments, and various environmental and social 
NGOs at the national and local level.  The Safeguard Framework has been prepared and 
Page  4
disseminated to enable such groups to understand the framework and processes to be 
followed for safeguard protection.  The Safeguard Framework outlines the overall 
consultation process to be followed.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/14/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
12/07/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/07/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/14/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
12/07/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/20/2005 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
n/a   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA 
report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan, abbreviated plan, or process framework (as 
appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve 
the plan / policy framework / policy process? 
Yes 
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways 
 
Have the other riparians been notified of the project? 
No 
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification 
requirement, has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo 
to the RVP prepared and sent? 
N/A 
What are the reasons for the exception?  Please explain: 
N/A 
Has the RVP approved such an exception? 
N/A 
Page  5
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Tamara Sulukhia 
12/20/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Philip W. Moeller 
12/12/2005 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Philip W. Moeller 
12/12/2005 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Ms Jane Olga Ebinger 
12/20/2005 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
12/20/2005 
Comments:  Cleared to reflect triggering of OP/BP 4.12 and 7.50 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Motoo Konishi 
12/21/2005 
Comments:  Cleared. 
