Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1955 
Project Name 
Infrastructure Pre-Investment Facility  
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General energy sector (55%); General transportation sector (45%) 
Project ID 
P098850 
Borrower(s) 
Georgia 
Ministry of Finance 
70, Irakli Abashidze Str. 
Tbilisi, Georgia 0162 
Tel: 995-32-221 754;  Fax: 995-32-235-416    
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Energy 
10, Lermontov Str. 
Tbilisi, Georgia 0105 
Tel.: 995-32-996 098; Fax: 995-32-989 930 
Ministry of Economic Development 
12, Rustaveli Ave. 
Tbilisi, Georgia 0108 
Tel.:  995-32-932 846; Fax: 995-32- 921 786 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
December 19, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 6, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
February 14, 2006 
1.    
Country and Sector Background 
 
Georgia is small country located to the south of the Caucasus mountain range with Russia to the 
north, Armenia and Turkey to the south, Azerbaijan to the east, and the Black sea to the west.  It 
has a population of 4.4 million
1
.
Following independence, the loss of planned production to 
Soviet markets, the end of large budget transfers from Moscow, and the impact of civil war 
which displaced some 300,000 people resulted in a 70 percent drop in output.   A stabilization 
and structural reform program led to a modest rebound in GDP in the mid-1990s.  However, the 
impact of these reforms was blunted as Georgia took on many of the trappings of a failed state: 
fragmented political power, deterioration in law and order; widespread corruption; a build-up in 
arrears in public salaries, pensions, and social transfers, and a slackened pace of political 
reforms.   In addition, the deterioration of much physical works and the lack of resources for 
maintenance and rehabilitation resulted in a major deterioration of key infrastructure, particularly 
the roads and power networks.  These factors led to growing dissatisfaction with the Government 
that culminated in the Rose Revolution in November 2003 and the election of a new Government 
1
This number does not include population on South Osetia and Abkhazia. 
Page  2
in January 2004 committed to addressing governance issues head-on and providing the basic 
infrastructure services necessary to sustain growth. 
 
The new Government has moved quickly and decisively on a number of fronts.  It is focusing on 
fighting corruption and building good governance; improving the fiscal stance while introducing 
tax reform, easing the regulatory environment for business; reforming social services, most 
notably in education and social protection systems; and addressing the deterioration in 
infrastructure, particularly in roads and power.  Accomplishments in these areas over the 
Government’s first two years have been impressive.  Public salaries and pension are paid on time 
and most arrears have been cleared.  Reforms in police and tax administration have had strong 
initial impact and are continuing.  The regulatory and administrative environment facing 
business is being improved and education reform in particular is introducing sweeping reform in 
Georgia’s schools at all levels.  Last year for the first time ever, students were admitted to 
colleges and universities on the basis of standard national exams, thereby eliminating a pervasive 
source of corruption.  For the business environment, the World Bank’s Doing Business Report 
published in 2005 rated Georgia as the country with the second most improved business climate 
in the world.  Similar results were noted in the 2005 Business Environment and Enterprise 
Performance survey
.
2
The new Government recognizes that reform, rehabilitation and development of infrastructure is 
vital for its efforts to spur economic growth, generate jobs and reduce poverty and has made 
infrastructure a key priority.  The importance of rebuilding critical infrastructure is underpinned 
by the structure of the economy.  At present, a significant part of Georgia's economy remains 
rural based.  Although agriculture has declined as a percentage of GDP following the collapse of 
traditional Soviet markets for fruits, vegetables and wine, it remains the largest sector of the 
economy, accounting for 16 percent of GDP but 52 percent of the employment.  Trade is the 
second largest sector of the economy, accounting for 13 percent of GDP and 11 percent of 
employment, while manufacturing accounts for 9 percent of GDP and 5 percent of employment.  
Rebuilding existing infrastructure necessary to sustain growth, particularly private sector led 
growth, in the rural areas and rebuild trade routes necessary to strengthen Georgias status as a 
transit economy is therefore a top priority.   
 
Due to a much improved fiscal stance -- underpinned by a stable macro-economic framework, 
low inflation and growing revenues - the Government in the last two years has managed to 
substantially increase investments in these areas.  However, given that needs are much greater 
than available resources, mobilization of investments for rehabilitation  and development of 
transport and energy infrastructure, including by the private sector, remains a major priority for 
the Government, as evidenced in the recently issued Progress Report on the Economic 
Development and Poverty Reduction Program (EDPRP).   These areas are also a major area of 
cooperation with the Bank, as evidenced by the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY 
2006-09 and the First Poverty Reduction Support Operation (PRSO) approved in September 
2005. 
 
Energy Sector Issues: 
Georgia consumes about 8 billion kWh of electricity per year, of which 
about 60 percent is domestic hydropower, about 30 percent is domestic thermal power, and 
2
EBRD/World Bank (2005) “
Business Environment and Enterprise Performance
”.  (BEEPs). 
Page  3
nearly 10 percent is electricity imports.  The thermal plants are fueled by imported natural gas, 
thus the import dependency in the electricity sector is considerable.  Electricity consumption is 
anticipated to grow by about 5 percent annually over the next three years.  Georgia imports about 
1.4 billion cubic meters of natural gas, currently only from Russia but with gas also to become 
available from Azerbaijan in late 2006 through a new transit pipeline crossing Georgia from 
Azerbaijan to Turkey. 
 
The new Government has taken an active role in the energy sector, with considerable success 
notably for power.  Availability of power has substantially improved, and 24 hour service for 
paying customers is a near-term reachable target for much of the country (i.e. beyond Tbilisi 
where power is generally available).  Problems of electricity theft and non-payments have been 
vigorously addressed.  Payment collections for UEDC, the dominant, state-owned power 
distributor outside Tbilisi, were approximately 25 percent in early 2004 as compared to about 65 
percent in the fall of 2005.  Targeted investments to rehabilitate hydropower plants have 
increased generation capacity, and progress has also been made to mitigate risks of failure in the 
transmission system.  The deployment of international management contractors in power 
distribution, transmission, and for wholesale market functions, has contributed to the sector 
improvements by adding professionalism, improving the u
tility companies’ cost structures, and 
through their successful efforts to fight corruption. 
 
The progress in the power sector since the Rose Revolution has been achieved from an abysmal 
starting point, and future challenges are plentiful.  The Government has established an Energy 
Sector Strategic Action Plan to guide its work.  Among the major unsolved issues is power sector 
debt and liquidity.  The Government, supported by international consultants, is preparing 
legislation to address the sector debt, which at US$500 million is unsustainable even as 80% of it 
is intrastate debt.  In spite of major financial improvements, some generating companies and the 
power transmission company are under-funded, and some tariffs are below cost recovery level
3
.
However, the Government provides budgetary support to the sector, and the contributions of 
investment funds from international financial institutions are sizeable.  The Government plans to 
privatize assets in distribution and generation as soon as practically possible. Current plans call 
for privatizations in 2006, although such time schedule seems optimistic. 
 
In 2004, the Government identified 
self-sustainability
 and 
energy security
 as two main priorities 
in its energy policy.  The goal is to create a profitable energy industry that can sustain itself on 
the basis of the financial flows from end consumers.  To support its priorities, the Government 
wants to ensure the most efficient use of internal resources and a diversification of supply points 
for energy entering the country, using its geo-political location for transit arrangement to help 
ensure energy security.  A cost-effective expansion of domestic hydropower production is 
viewed as a potential means to mitigate financial impacts of increasing prices of imported fossil 
fuels and electricity while contributing to self-sustainability and energy security also in physical 
terms.   
 
For energy, this Infrastructure Pre-Investment Facility focuses on assessing the feasibility of a 
possible Khudoni Hydropower Plant (Khudoni HPP).  Construction of the Khudoni hydropower 
plant in western Georgia (see annexed map) started in 1985, but was terminated unfinished in 
3
Electricity tariffs are about 6.8US cents/kWh in Tbilisi and about 4.7 US cents/kWh in the regions. 
Page  4
1989 due to the situation in the Soviet Union at the time.  Also the earthquake in neighboring 
Armenia in 1988 (Richter scale 6.9) impacted the decision to suspend building of the dam and 
power plant.  Later (in 1992), the planned dam was redesigned to sustain extreme earthquakes 
(Richter scale 9, vs. earlier 8).  Dam safety is the most critical aspect of hydropower plant 
studies, including the planned feasibility assessments for the Khudoni HPP.  Khudoni HPP is 
expected to be the least-cost large hydropower development available to Georgia. 
 
Transport Sector Issues:
 
Georgia's geographical position makes it an important transport link 
between east-west (the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea) and north and south (between Russia and 
Turkey). Trade with its neighbors, both transit and bilateral, is also an important feature of 
Georgia’s economy.  Transit activities generate a direct turnover of more that US$2 billion per 
year.  One of the government top priorities is to develop Georgia’s comparative advantage as a 
transit country by improving its East-West Transport Corridor.  The development of oil resources 
is projected to increase the east-west flow of oil and associated products
4
.
The Government 
recognizes the full potential of its transit corridor has not been realized.  The Government’s focus 
is first to modernize the transit road network and if financing is available to improve the 
Georgian Railway’s infrastructure.  The rail network needs significant investment to attract 
potentially profitable transit movements of oil and non-oil products.  
 
The road network in Georgia consists of 1,474 kilometers of main roads with about 70 per cent 
in good to fair condition; 3,392 kilometers of secondary roads of which over 60 percent are in 
poor condition and need rehabilitation; and 15,429 kilometers of local roads most of which are, 
in very poor condition. The current condition of the road network in Georgia reflects a severe 
reduction in the resources allocated to road maintenance under the previous Government, from 
the early 1990s to 2004. A recent sector review
5
documents the decline in road maintenance 
expenditures, from GEL125.1 million (US$59.5 million) in 1988 to GEL 24.8 million (US$12.4 
million) in 2002, in nominal terms.  The poor state of the highway network constrains the 
movement of goods and people between Georgia’s cities, ports, and rural areas; and through 
Georgia, along the transit corridor. The long transit times, despite the relatively short distance 
and poor road conditions add to transport costs and deter usage of the Georgian transit route.  
According to work undertaken elsewhere in the region, poor road quality can raise transport 
costs by between 28-56%
6
,
and in the more extreme cases could result in a complete denial of 
service as transport operators become reluctant to operate on roads which are liable to damage 
their vehicles.    
 
Since coming to power the new Government focused on improvement of road infrastructure.  
Funding provided to the transport sector has increased substantially from GEL51.4 million in 
2003, to GEL67.8 million in 2004 and GEL121.4 million in 2005 with further increase projected 
for 2006.  Moreover, the Government recognizes needs to further improve funding and 
management mechanism to adequately maintain Georgia’s roads. IDA-funded transport sector 
projects are assisting the RDMED in developing cost-effective mechanisms to better align 
maintenance expenditures with existing needs, through development of a multi-year road 
maintenance plan, introduction of modern management technologies, application of new road 
4
USAID, Georgain Railway Restructuring Program, draft May 2005 
5
World Bank, (2002) “
Transport Sector Review of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia”
,
ECSIE 
6
World Bank, (2003a) 
Op cit
 
Page  5
classification system, and development of a new road design standards. In view of the poor road 
conditions, IDA also approved in 2004 a credit of US $20 million for the rehabilitation of 500 to 
750 km local and secondary roads, which currently is under implementation.   
 
In addition to improved maintenance and road management the Government is focusing on the 
modernization of East-West highway from 
Georgia’s major Black See port of Poti to Azeri 
Border at the Red Bridge.  In 2005 the PPIAF funded a study which reviewed the economic 
feasibility of various improvement options on the East – West route with special attention to the 
critical section between Tbilisi and Rikoti as it carries the highest traffic volume and the largest 
proportion of heavy vehicles.  The study analyzed the options to upgrade the existing road from 
the highway with an alignment that would achieve the maximum design speed of 120 km per 
hour.    The upgrade of existing road to four lanes or the construction of parallel 2x2 motorway 
both have acceptable economic rate of return. The Government has selected the option to 
upgrade existing road and has requested the Bank support.   
 
2. Objectives 
 
The development objective of the IPF Project is to facilitate infrastructure investments that have 
strategic importance and/or special complexity by ensuring that proper feasibility work is carried 
out in a timely manner in order to enable the government to make sound investment decisions, 
and where appropriate, to proceed expeditiously with further preparatory steps and mobilize 
adequate financing for implementation.   
 
The considered areas include energy and transport, consistent with Governments investment 
priorities and CPS objectives.  Specifically, the IPF Project will finance TA to assess the 
feasibility and effectiveness of proposed investments through preparation work including 
technical and sectoral studies, engineering design, and analysis of economic, financial and 
environmental feasibility, as well as financial and legal advisory services, where required. The 
IPF Project will support the delivery of these outcomes with details to be worked out on a case-
by-case basis.  
 
Key performance indicators
 
to assess the fulfillment of the project development objectives are: 
·
Studies for preparation of Khudoni Hydropower project completed satisfactorily to the 
Bank and the Government;
 
·
Studies for preparation of Transit Corridor projects completed satisfactorily to the Bank 
and the Government.
 
3.  
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Government’s policy agenda recognizes infrastructure investments as one of the major ways 
to support country’s accelerated economic growth and in particular it focuses on development of 
energy and transport infrastructure as a top priority.  This Infrastructure Pre-Investment Facility 
(IPF Project) would provide the Government with funds to conduct studies to analyze the 
viability of the investment options and to more efficiently prepare projects for financing.  The 
facility would also enable the Government to investigate financing structures that would tap 
funding other than the IDA credit and thus increase the available financing package.   
Page  6
The Government’s commitment to the energy and transport sectors is evident from the 
substantial increase of funding levels from the state budget as well as from public declarations of 
the country’s President and the Prime-Minister.  One result of the Government’s clear vision for 
infrastructure development is that Georgia obtained grant funding from the Millennium 
Challenge Corporation (MCC).  In September, 2005 Georgia signed a five-year US$295.3 
million Compact with MCC in order to implement infrastructure projects that have a major social 
and economic impact.  In addition, the Government is working on attracting funding from all 
feasible sources of finance. 
 
Over of the last decade, the Bank has played a leading role in providing investment lending to 
the Georgian infrastructure sector and ensuring that projects are identified, prepared, 
implemented, and monitored in a competent way and according to high standards.  In addition, 
the Bank has taken a lead in the policy dialogue for the energy and transport sectors.  Given the 
Bank’s engagement and its professional capacity it has a comparative advantages in providing 
pre-investment  assistance, its involvement in the sector can facilitate and attract other 
international organizations and the private sector to participate in infrastructure investment 
projects, including public-private partnerships and partial-risk guarantees.   
 
Reform in the power sector has been a major priority of Bank assistance in Georgia since 1997 
due to the sectors broad implications for social welfare, commercial activity and fiscal 
sustainability.   Currently, the Poverty Reduction Strategy Operation (PRSO) supports important 
energy reforms with a focus on establishing a financially viable power sector.  An SDR 21 
million IDA credit supports rehabilitation of the power transmission system, introduction of 
modern system controls (SCADA), and an international management contract for the 
transmission company.  The Bank also actively seeks to ensure adequate coordination of 
activities in the energy sector that are supported by credits from various donors and international 
financial institutions.   
 
The new Government has directed its efforts towards reaching self-sustainability and energy 
security towards reform of the sector and improvement of existing infrastructure. However, the 
Government also recognizes the need for diversification of its supply points and construction of 
Khudoni Hydro Power Plant project (if proven feasible) is one of such projects.  Bank support 
through the proposed project for preparation of the Khudoni hydropower project would further 
enhance support to the Government’s goals of energy self-sustainability and energy security.  
The Khudoni Hydropower Plant, feasibility of which is to be assessed by this project, would 
produce 1500 GWh or more per year, constituting more than 15 percent of annual electricity 
consumption in Georgia and about 20 percent of country’s hydropower production. 
 
The Government has demonstrated its commitment to develop the East West Transport Corridor 
by its application for and response to the PPIAF study which provided private financing options 
to rehabilitate the Rikoti tunnel and economic and financial analysis for the road corridor 
development.  The Government prompt decision after the presentation of the options for the road 
corridor is further indication of the priority of this investment.  The Government is allocating 
approximately GEL 28 million in the next budget to fund the upgrade of the existing two lanes 
road to four lanes from outside of Tbilisi to the village of Agaiani.  The Government would like 
Page  7
Bank financing to continue the upgrade from Agaiani towards Rikoti. The existing Bank project 
of US$20 million is to rehabilitate secondary and local roads which interconnect to various road 
corridors. The last Bank support for the highway network was in 2000-2005 where the Bank 
funded rehabilitation of sections of the East West road corridor for US$40 million. 
 
The development of East West Transit Corridor projects would directly contribute to the 
economy by generating hard currency earnings from transit revenues, alleviate rural poverty by 
reducing cost and time for transport of agricultural goods, and generate indirect economic 
opportunities along the transit route.  Development of the transit corridor in Georgia is 
complemented by parallel investments in the transit corridor in Azerbaijan where the Bank is 
supporting road and rail corridor investment projects which would link into the Georgian 
networks.  New commitments of US$60 million are anticipated for the transport sector in this 
CPS period. The only external development partner engaged in the transport sector is MCC with 
its US$103 million grant to construct a highway from Tbilisi to the isolated region of Samtskhe
–
Javakheti in Southern Georgia.  The facility is needed to investigate viability of high impact 
projects and facilitate project preparation. 
 
In railways, the Bank is developing a complementary project in Azerbaijan to upgrade rail 
infrastructure on the Azerbaijan portion of the rail corridor and improve coordination between 
the railways on transit movements.  
 
When the Government considers the development of strategic infrastructure projects, preparatory 
work will determine its capacity to make sound investment decisions and, where appropriate, to 
mobilize adequate financing.  The TA provided under this Project will ensure adequate capacity 
to undertake such feasibility work in a timely manner and with high-quality as well as,
 
where 
appropriate, to proceed expeditiously with further preparatory steps and mobilize adequate 
financing for implementation.
 
4. Description 
 
The IPF Project has two major components: Component 1 will finance TA for Khudoni 
Hydropower Project preparation; Component 2, with two sub-components, will finance 
preparation of Transit Corridor projects.  While Components 1 and 2.A. are clearly defined, the 
scope of the sub-Component 2.B. is broadly determined for transit corridor projects and depends 
upon the availability of funds remaining after funding needs for Component 1 and 2.A. are 
satisfied.   
 
Component 1:  TA for Khudoni Hydropower Project Preparation  
 
The Bank would finance a study for the Khudoni Hydropower Project to assess its technical, 
economic and financial viability while at the same time determine how a possible development 
of the hydropower project could be undertaken with adequate safeguards and solutions 
concerning the environment and social/resettlement impacts.  Dam safety will be given top 
priority in the study.  The study would include a review of original design plans (Phase I); an 
assessment on alternative dam and hydropower concepts (Phase II), and the development of a 
feasibility study for the selected alternative (Phase III).  Phase III would also include analyses of 
Page  8
potential export markets for part of the Khudoni power as well as financing options for the 
project.  If, on the basis of this Phase I-III work, the project is determined to be feasible and 
adequate safeguards solutions are identified and if the Government decides to proceed, a Phase 
IV could be launched. Under Phase IV the consultants would develop detailed designs and 
specifications, undertake a prequalification process, develop bidding documents for building the 
dam and power plant, and assist during a bidding
 process.  The Bank’s involvement in financing 
and execution of Phase IV work, and the approach to Phase IV, would depend on planned 
ownership structure for the power plant and the availability of interested investors at the time 
when feasibility has been determined. A Panel of Experts to review the consultants’ dam design, 
technical and environmental solutions, resettlement solutions and other aspects, would also be 
financed.  The feasibility study may show the need for expanded field work – geological, 
geoseismical, hydrological, etc. – which might incur a need for additional financing.  The Phase 
I-III work (to assess feasibility) is expected to take about 12 months, and the subsequent Phase 
IV about 4 months, but there may be a significant time interval between Phase III and IV for 
decision making, project financing, and handling of other issues.  The Khudoni project’s 
environmental and social implications will be analyzed and developed under a separate TA 
contract running in parallel with the technical studies in Phase I-III and be finished at the time 
when the Government would decide whether to proceed into Phase IV of the project (i.e. 
implementing the investment project). 
 
Should the Khudoni HPP prove to be economically attractive (and otherwise feasible), financial 
analyses should be undertaken and issues addressed concerning ownership and power sales.  
Financial advisory services and possibly expanded market analysis would be required, and 
particularly in the event of a long-term export contract for part of the Khudoni power, substantial 
legal services would also be required.  Costs for such work would expectedly be large, but might 
substantially be carried by private sector investors in Khudoni.  Nevertheless, some of the 
mentioned work might best be financed by the Government, and the IPF Project will make funds 
available within what is uncommitted, consistent with Government priorities.  
 
Component 2:  TA for Preparation of Transit Corridor Projects  
 
2. A.  
TA for Preparation of East-West Highway Improvement Project  
 
The Government’s priority is to start modernization of the Red Bridge-Tbilisi-Poti transit road 
from  the most congested section from Natakhtari, which is about 12 Km west of Tbilisi to 
Khashuri by upgrading the existing road from two lanes to four lanes.  Therefore, the 
Government has allocated funds from its own budget to upgrade 15 Km of the road from 
Natakhtari to Agaiani.  The Bank will complete a feasibility study, preliminary design and 
environmental assessment to continue this 4 lane upgrade from Agaiani to Sveneti 
(approximately Km 46 mark to Km 80 mark), subdividing the highway for analysis purposes into 
three sections: Section 1 - Agaiani to Igoeti, Section 2 - Igoeti Bypass, and Section3 - Igoeti to 
Sveneti.  The preliminary review will be followed by detailed design and preparation of the 
bidding packages for each section.  If the economic rate of return for the Igoeti Bypass is 
assessed to be inadequate for now, the Bank will select another section of this road between 
Sveneti and Rikoti for upgrade to 4 lanes.  The environmental and social implications of the 
corridor improvement project will be analyzed as part of technical studies. 
Page  9
2. B.
 
TA for Preparation of Other Transit Corridor Projects  
 
The scope of this sub-Component is broadly determined for transit corridor projects (road or 
railways) and depends upon the availability of funds remaining after funding needs of the other 
two priority components of the project are satisfied.  Increase in the estimated costs of work on 
Component 1 and/or Component 2.A. over and above contingencies allowance would be 
accommodated by reducing or eliminating work under Component 2.B.  The selection criteria for 
projects will be guided by their strategic importance, complexity, and merit. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0.9 
IDA Grant 
5.0 
 Total 
5.9 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The IPF Project will be implemented over a three year period from March 31, 2006 to March 31, 
2009.  The division of institutional mandates, roles and responsibilities for the management of 
the program is summarized below and described in greater detail in Technical Annex 6: 
Implementation Arrangements. 
 
The responsibility for project implementation will lie with the two major sectoral agencies 
(according to the project components) 
–
Ministry of Energy, and Ministry of Economic 
Development.  These Ministries will draft Terms of References for consultants,
manage 
procurement, negotiate contracts, supervise progress, and process payments for their respective 
components.  
 
For the Khudoni component the implementing agency will be the Ministry of Energy.  A Deputy 
Minister, designated by the Minister, will be in charge of the project.  Since procurement and 
financial management skills required by the Bank and necessary for project implementation are 
lacking within the Ministry, assistance in these areas will be provided by the Project Service 
Organization (PSO) which has been established to support implementation of the Electricity 
Market Support Project (EMSP).  The PSO is an entity under Public Law under and reporting to 
the Ministry of Energy.  The entity has experience in managing Bank projects.  The activities of 
the PSO under this project will be under direct oversight from the Deputy Minister. The Ministry 
will be responsible for all other functions related to implementation of this project, including 
inter alia decisions relating to the substance of the consultants’ work and decisions to proceed 
with the various phases of the work.  After the closure of the EMSP project, scheduled for end of 
2007, the services of the PCO to the IPF Project would be replaced by consulting services 
procured by the Ministry of Energy under the IPF Project. 
 
The PSO accountant/financial management specialists will be responsible for setting up and 
operate the project’s financial management and accounting system according to IDA standards 
and to keep and monitor project accounts for the Khudoni component.  An auditor acceptable to 
Page  10
IDA will annually audit Special Account, any project account, disbursements, and Statement of 
Expenses (SOEs) according to international standards.  The annual audit report will be submitted 
to IDA within six months of the end of each calendar year.   
 
Procurement for the Khudoni component would be carried out under IDA procurement 
guidelines. The PSO will draft procurement documents for the Khudoni project, and will carry 
out day-to-day contract management activities.  However, MoE will be responsible for decision-
making issues such as decisions about evaluation committee members.  Contracts will be signed 
by the MoE and the contractors.  Contract negotiations will be carried out by the MoE with 
participation of the PSO.  MoE will keep originals of all procurement documents with copies at 
t
he
PSO’s premises. 
 
Transit Corridor projects will be implemented by the Ministry of Economic Development. The 
Deputy Minister who is responsible for transport sector in the Ministry, will be designated by the 
Minister to be in charge of the project.  Since procurement and financial management skills 
required by the Bank, and necessary for project implementation are lacking within the Ministry, 
assistance in these areas will be provided by the Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center 
(TRRC).  The TRRC was established in 1996 as an entity of Public Law under the Ministry of 
Economic Development.   
 
The main function of the TRRC will be to undertake procurement work, project financial 
management and accounting, disbursements, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements. The 
activities of the PSO under this project will be under direct oversight from the Deputy Minister.  
The TRRC has experience in managing Bank projects having implemented four IDA-financed 
transport projects.  (Ongoing Secondary and local Roads project has similar implementation 
arrangement, where the TRRC assists the Roads Department of the Ministry of Economic 
Development based on  the specific agreement).
 
The Ministry will be responsible for all other 
functions related to implementation of this project, including inter alia decisions relating to the 
substance of the consultants’ work and decisions relating to entering the various phases of the 
work.      
 
The TRRC accountant/financial management specialists will be responsible for setting up project 
financial and accounting system according to IDA standards and to keep and monitor project 
accounts for the Transit Corridor component.  An auditor acceptable to IDA will annually audit 
Special Account, any project account, disbursements, and Statement of Expenses (SOEs) 
according to international standards.  The annual audit report will be submitted to IDA within six 
months of the end of each calendar year.   
 
Procurement under this project will be carried out under IDA procurement guidelines.  The 
TRRC will draft procurement documentation for Component 2 of the project, and will carry out 
day-to-day contract management activities.  However, MoED will be responsible for decision-
making.  Contracts will be also signed MoED and contractors.  Contract negotiations will be 
carried out by the MoED with participation of TRRC.  MoED will keep originals of all 
procurement documents with copies at TRRC premises. 
 
Page  11
All correspondence with project stakeholders and/or consultants will be sent and received by the 
respective implementing Ministry.  All deliverables from the contractors will be received, 
reviewed and accepted or rejected with certain comments by MoE and MoED for their respective 
project components.  Project Operational Manual will be developed by PSO and TRRC, agreed 
with the MoE and MoED, and approved by the Bank.  Project Operational Manuals incorporate 
Financial Management section reflecting Treasury accounting and reporting. 
 
The Ministry of Finance will have the authority to make decisions and take actions concerning 
the allocation of the remaining amounts of funds in the project. 
 
Not later than December, 2006 the Government will review completed work on the studies under 
Components 1 and 2.A. and will determine whether funds are available to address Component 
2.B and within 30 days will develop the scope of this component, acceptable to the Bank.  Any 
increase in the estimated costs of work on Component 1 and/or Component 2.A. over and above 
the contingencies allowance would be accommodated by reducing or eliminating work under 
Component 2.B. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Sustainability of the technical assistance provided by the project requires that the 
recommendations developed under the project are effectively used and applied.  Preparation of 
the investment projects under the Pre-investment facility will assist the government in making 
sound investment decisions, and where applicable in mobilizing financing for respective 
investment projects.  The latter largely depends on political stability, continued availability of 
resources, and government’s continued commitment to implementation of those projects.   The 
expected duration of the project is three years, while the impact of the project – effective 
application of its recommendations resulted in and applied during implementation of the 
respective infrastructure investment projects - may become visible in the longer run.  Therefore, 
project sustainability largely depends upon the Government’s continued commitment to its 
current infrastructure investment priorities as well as availability of funds for implementation of 
those investment projects.  
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The design of the IPF Project draws on the lessons learned from IDA supported investment and 
policy-based operations in Georgia as well as from implementation of similar projects elsewhere.  
The lessons learned from various technical assistance projects, i.e. ownership by local 
institutions, preparation of comprehensive Terms of Reference (TORs), selection of competent 
consultants, detailed reviews for ensuring quality of consultant’s outputs, realistic time-frame, 
and wide consultations with local institutions, donors and other stakeholders, have been taken 
into account in the project design.  Government’s ownership of the reform agenda is to ensure 
effective implementation and future sustainability of the project and the proposed project has 
been designed to ensure a high degree of commitment.  The proposed components of the project 
have received strong political support at the highest level of the Government and are fully 
aligned with the Governments particularly important agenda.  
 
Page  12
In order to ensure beneficiary participation in project preparation the project considers the 
Government involvement in rev
iewing and commenting on consultant’s reports and studies at all 
stages of the project, including scope of work design for consultants.  The scope of work for 
consultants will be defined to ensure complementarity with technical assistance being provided 
by other organizations.  The consultants will be selected according to Bank’s guidelines and 
procedures for selection of consultants.   
 
Experience with other Bank operations applying similar funding mechanism was carefully 
considered and adapted to reflect the country context.  The FMS team conducted an assessment 
of the feasibility of using Georgian public financial management systems to implement World 
Bank-financed projects in general, and the proposed IPF Project in particular.  In the course of 
this work the capacity of the Treasury systems was assessed for managing project funds, 
providing the required level of banking services and reporting on the use of project funds.   
Disbursement arrangements were discussed at length with the MoF and Treasury service and 
agreements were reached on specific aspects of the accounts to be established within the 
Treasury as well as financial management procedures to be introduced. 
 
The implementation time-frame builds on experience of other operations in ECA region of an 
urgency nature.  To avoid delays in implementation, the activities for selection of consultants 
have been carried out in parallel with project processing.  
 
Experience with Bank-financed or Bank-managed technical assistance in other countries points 
to a need for careful and realistic planning of the TA and close monitoring of the consultants to 
ensure that the tasks are completed on schedule.  The Bank’s involvement in ensuring clear and 
comprehensive Terms of References, proposing realistic schedules, interim review of consultants 
work with counterparts, and coordination with donors was found to be necessary for timely and 
effective implementation of technical assistance projects.  The Bank will therefore be closely 
involved in implementation of the proposed IPF Project.   
 
Project implementation capacity has been identified as one of the key determinants of success for 
all Bank-financed projects in the country and region.  Further determinant is the importance of 
balancing ownership for individual components and related technical knowledge.  Given that 
both components deal with preparation of strategic and complex infrastructure investment 
projects, the proposed implementation arrangements envisage that primary responsibility for 
project components will be assigned to the key sectoral institutions - to the Ministry of Energy 
for the Khudoni component, and to the Ministry of Economic Development for the Transit 
Corridor component.  Following the experience accumulated in the region, the specific skills will 
be contracted, and the consultants will work under the supervision and guidance of a project-
responsible person with the necessary authority.  
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Although the IPF Project is limited to technical assistance, it has been classified as Category B, 
triggering OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement), 
because of the safeguard impacts of possible follow-on investment projects, the feasibility of 
which are studied under the IFP Project.  To address these environmental and social safeguards 
Page  13
during project preparation, a Safeguard Framework, as described in the sections above, has been 
disclosed and consultations have been held.  Since the Enguri River, on which a possible future 
Khudoni hydropower plant would be located, flows into the Black Sea, the International 
Waterways safeguard (OP 7.50) has been triggered, and accordingly the Commission for the 
“Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea Against Pollution” has been notified. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [x] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x ] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[x] 
[  ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[x] [ 
] 
10. 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
A.      Bank Staff Assessments and Documents 
 
·
Financial Management Assessment Report, November 2005. 
·
Procurement Assessment Report, 2003. 
·
Assessment of the Proposed Khudoni Dam and Hydropower Plant (HPP) in Georgia by 
P.N. Gupta, Consultant, August 2005. 
·
Draft TOR for Preparation of Project Definition, Feasibility Study, and Procurement and 
Bidding Documents.  
·
Draft TOR for Preparation of Environmental and Social Impact Assessments. 
·
Safeguards Framework paper. 
B. Other 
Documents 
 
·
World Bank “Trade and Transport Facilitation in the South Caucasus – Georgia Policy 
Note”, 2003. 
·
World Bank, “Transport Sector Review of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia”, 2002  
·
East-West Corridor Improvement Financial Feasibility Report.  PPIAF funded Project 
“Framework for Public Private Participation in Road Sector.” 
·
TACIS funded Rehabilitation of Caucasian Highways.  Pre-feasibility study for 
Modernization of the Existing Road Poti-Tbilisi-red Bridge Georgia. 
·
Report on Georgian Railways Restructuring.  2005.  USAID/Booz Allen Hamilton. 
 
11. Contact 
point: 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  14
Contact: Mrs. Tamara Sulukhia 
Title: Infrastructure Specialist 
Tel: 5252+250 
Fax: (995 32) 91 34 78 
Email: tsulukhia@worldbank.org 
Location: Tbilisi, Georgia (IBRD) 
 
12. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
