Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ca IY7 2-  C-D
Report No. P-4536-CD
9
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 10.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR
AN ECQNOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
December 23, 1987
This document has a restricted disb on and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
eir official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wifthout World Bank authnorizaton.



Currency Uuiit - CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00    = CFAF 300 a/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAA            Caisse Autonome d'Amortissements
Debt Amortization Fund
CEFOD          Centre d'Etudes et de Formation pour le
Developpement.
Center for Development Research and Training
COTONTCHAD     Societe Cotonniare du Tchad
Chadian Cotton Company
EDF            European Development Fund
ENAM           Ecole Nationale d'Administration et de la Magistrature
National School for Administration and legal Training
FAC             Fonds d'Aide et de Coop4ration
French Aid Agency
MOCI           Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MOF            Ministry of Finance
tMP            Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
NGO            Non-governmental organization
OCAM           Organisation pour la coop4ration Africaine et Malgache
Organization for African and Malagasy Cooperation
OMVSD          Office de la Mise en Valeur de Sategui-Deressia
Office for the Development of Sategui-Deressia
SME            Small and medium- sized enterprise
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
a/ As of September 15, 1987.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
CHAD
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Government of the Republic of Chad
Beneficiaries:         Secretariat General of the Government, Ministrv of
Planning and Cooperation, Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Commerce and Industry,
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissements, Contr6le
d'Etat, Ecole Nationale d'Administration et de la
Magistrature, Centre d'Etudes et de Formation pour le
D4veloppement.
Amount:                SDR 10.0 million (US$12.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Swiss Government grant of Swiss Francs 5 million
(about US$3.0 million equivalent).
Onlending Terms:       Not applicable
Financing Plan:        Swiss Government    US$  3.0 million equivalent
IDA                 US$ 12.8 million
Chadian Government  US$  0.2 million
TOTAL               US$ 16.0 million
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: Not applicable
Map:                   IBRD 21014
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-34
4c



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD
FOR AN ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PRCJECT
1.        The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Chad for SDR 10.0 million (US$12.8 million
equivalent) is submitted for approval. The proposed credit would be on
standard IDA terms with 40 vears maturity and would help finance an
economic and financial management project. The project would be cofinanced
by the Swiss Government through a grant fcr Swiss Francs 5.0 million (US$
3.0 million equivalent); this grant would be administered by IDA in
accordance with a procedural arrangement dated April 9, 1987.
2.        Background.  With a per capita income of about US$160 in 1986,
Chad is one of the world's poorest and least developed countries. In
recent years, economic and social progress was significantly disrupted bv
war, a severe drought, and a drop in the world price for cotton, Chad's
main source of foreign exchange. Except for cotton, these problems are now
past, and the Government has launched a successful program of national
reconciliation. It has moved from ad hoc emergency operations to longer
term development. It has made significant progress in rebuilding the
country, while maintaining a basic policy of minimum intervention in the
economy. Still, an absence of up-to-date data on population and other
areas hinders planning. Resouree mobilization is a high priority, but
little detailed information is available on the tax system as a wnole and
on the impact of the various taxes on the economy.
3.        The Government recognizes the need to develop a stronger and
broader capability for economic and financial management at the national
and sectoral levels in order to promote growth, derive the most benefit
from its resources, and program its investments effectively. As first
priority, it sees a need to expand on or initiate new efforts to upgrade
the operations of the following organizations: the Ministry of Planning and
Cooperation, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry, the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissements (CAA), the Controle d'Etat,
the Ecole Nationale d'Administration et de la Magistrature (ENAI), the
Centre d'Etudes et de Formation pour le Developpement (CEFOD), and certain
parapublic enterprises. Many of these organizations are constrained by an
absence of sufficient skilled staff, others are severely hampered by
inadequate office space and equipment. The Government is small in size,
but is likely to grow. It is important to review the organization of the
Ministries of Planning and Cooperation and of Finance, at this stage, so as
to prevent their administrations from becoming overly large and
organizationally complex as a result of ad hoc expansion.
4.        Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The proposed project would
further the Bank's current development strategy for Chad which, in keeping
with the Government's Interim Development Plan and priority objectives,
emphasizes institution-building and aid coordination. This strategy



-2-
includes the strengthening of the Government's administrative, economic and
financial management, as well as policy analysis capabilities.
5.        Project Objectives.  The objective of the proposed project is to
strengthen the Government's overall capacity to define and implement its
developmeut program, to carry out effective economic and financial
management, to monitor economic performance and to improve the collection
of revenues.   More specifically, the project will help the Government to:
(i) in key areas of economic and financial management, implement the
policies and action programs outlined in the Policy Framework Paper (PFP)
which was appro'red by the IMF and the World Bank in 1987, and in the
proposed Financial Rehabilitation Credit (FRC); (ii) work with the IMF to
improve the collection of revenues; (iii) supplement the work on economic
and financial management being supported by other donors; (iv) support
training in areas that constrain the management of economic development and
Government operations; (v) re-establish the statistical data base; and (vi)
provide physical facilities and equipment so as to permit the resumption of
normal Government operations. The Ministries of Planning and Cooperation,
and of Finance will be the principal beneficiaries, along with the Ministry
of Commerce, the Controle d'Etat, CAA, ENAM, CEFOD and 16
Government-supported enterprises.
6.        Project Description.  The project will have four components:
(i) a technical assistance fund for short-term studies and consultancies
and for urgently needed equipment. Activities that the Government plans to
propose to IDA for approval from the fund are: diagnostic studies of 16
Government-supported enterprises; strengthening of the capability of the
technical Ministries to carry out feasibility studies for proposed
investments; strengthening of fiscal administration; compilation of a
national collection of legal and economic documentation; and a
comprehensive study of the system of public administration;
(ii) construction of two modest office buildings to house the staff of the
Ministries of Planning and Cooperation and of Finance, and procurement of
basic equipment and furnishings; (iii) training, both short and long-term,
in critical areas related to economic and financial management; and (iv) a
cost-effective sample population survey that will yield basic demographic
data essential for economic planning as well as the sample base for surveys
measuring the impact of the adjustment program on households and for health
and education surveys.
7.                  The prolect, to be carried out over six years, provides
funds for civil works; vehicles, furniture and equipment; training;
technical assistance and studies; and operating costs on a decreasing basis.
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$16.0 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$13.4 million (84%). A breakdown of
the costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and
methods of procurement and of disbursements, and the disbursement schedule
are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and
the status of Bank Group operations in Chad are given in Schedules C and D,
respectivelv. A map is also attached. Since there is no separate Staff



-3-
Appraisal Report, more detailed information on the proposed project is
provided in Annex I.
8.        Agreed Actions.  The Government has agreed on the following
actions. As conditions of project effectiveness, it will: (i) set up a
Higher Committee to manage the technical assistance fund and large
components of the project, with assigned responsibilities acceptable to
IDA, and to superv£se the execution of the project; (ii) ensure that the
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation has submitted for IDA approval a
training plan for its staff; and (iii) sign an agreement with CEFOD,
acceptable to IDA, concerning the ownership and management of the national
collection of legal and economic documents. Other conditions are: (iv)
appointment of an architectural advisor acceptable to IDA by May 15, 1988;
(v) appointment of an engineering consultant acceptable to IDA before IDA's
agreement on the civil works contract for the Ministries' buildings; (vi)
submission by ENAM of short-term, in-country training course outlines and
detailed cost estimates by May 15, 1988; (vii) submission of a plan for
short-term, out-of-country training by the Ministries of Planning and
Cooperation, and of Finance by May 15, 1988; (viii) submission of the
criteria for selecting candidates for long-term out-of-country training for
IDA approval by May 15, 1988; (ix) submission by the Higher Committee of
candidates selected for long-term out-of-country training for IDA approval
by June 30, 1988; (x) statement that recipients of long-term out-of-country
training will work not less than four years for Government departments or
agencies responsible for economic and financial management; (xi)
organization of a team and recruitment of assistance to prepare the terms
of reference and bidding documents of the sample survey, by MIay 15, 1988;
and preparation of the terms of reference and bidding documents by June 30,
1988; (xii) training of about ten high-level staff to participate in the
survey; (xiii) supervision of the survey with the members of the teams
mentioned under (xi); (xiv) performance with IDA of a progress review after
18 months; and (xv) submission to IDA for approval by May 30, 1988, of the
list of the first 7 public enterprises for which a diagnostic study must be
undertaken and by September 30, 1988 of the 9 other public enterprises to
be studied.
9.        Justification.  The justification for this project arises from
its bringing : (i) a greater capacity within the Ministries of Finance and
Planning and Cooperation to carry out economic and financial management,
particularly evaluations of investment projects, preparation of the
investment program, monitoring of the implementation of investments,
collection of badly needed revenues, and rationalization of
Government-supported enterprises; 'ii) an upgrading and expansion of staff
skills; (iii) the elimination of t.te bottleneck in Government operations
caused by the acute shortage of office space at the Ministries of Planning
and Cooperation and of Finance; and (iv) the development of the minimum
population data base needed for basic economic and social planning and for
essential surveys.
10.       Risks.  Besides the possible resumption of war, the principal
difficultv is to ensure an appropriate identification, selection and



-4-
retention of the long-term out-of-country training recipients. This risk
has been minimized by the creation of a proper management structure (the
Higher Committee) and the above-list of agreed actions.
I1.       Recommendation.  I am satrsfied that the proposed credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that
the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
December , 1987



cm~~~
Schedule A
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimatad Costs (a)                     Local  Foreign    Total
…USS -illion 
1. Technical Assistance Fund
(a) 16 diagnostic studles            0.0      1.4      1.4
(b) t ssbility studies              0.0      0.4       0.4
(c) fiscal study                    0.0      0.6       0.8
(d) economic A legal coil.          0.0      0.1       0.1
(a) equipment                        8.0      0.2      0.2
(f) public sector study             0.0       0.2      0.2
(8) official gazette                 0.1     0.1      0.2
(h) unallocated                      0.0      1.0      1.0
2. Training
(a) short-term in-country            0.0      0.1      0.1
(b) short-term abroad               0.0      0.2       0.2
(c) long-term abroad                0.0       0.6      0.6
8. Sample Survey
(a) tender docs. & supervision      0.0       0.1     0.1
(b) sample survey                   0.8      2.4       3.0
4. Ministry Buildings
(a) civil works                      1.2      2.9      4.1
(b) furniture                       0.0       0.3     0.3
(c) equipment                        0.0      0.4      0.4
(d) design fee                       0.0     0.4      0.4
5. Project Management                     0.1      0.0      0.1
Base Costs                           2.0    11.4    13.4
Contingencies                        0.6      2.0      2.6
Total Project Costs                2.6    13.4    16.0
=  == ==
(a) Taxes and duties excluded
Financing plan                          Local  Foreign    Total
- ---- USS million -----
IDA                                       2.4    10.4    12.8
Swiss Government                          0.0      3.0      3.0
Chadian Government                        0.2      0.0      0.2
Total                              2.6    13.4    18.0
==   =             -==



-6-
Schedule B
ECONOMIC AN  FINNCIAL MAAEMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHODS AND DISS IRSEM S
Procur ent Methods
Project ElemAnt                -----     - ---4--   Tot. I
ICO      LC3      Other    Cost
- - US 8 ilion Ito
Civil Works (b)               6.4      0.1               5.6
(S.4)    (0. 1)     _      (5.5)
Vehicles, furniture           0.6               0.0      1.1
and equipment (c)          (0.6)      -      (0.6)    (1. 1)
Sample Survey, Studies                          9.1(d)   9.1
Training and Consultants       -        -      (6.1)    (0.1)
Operating Co t.                -        -       0.2      0.2
(0.1)    (0.1)
Project Management (o)         -        -       9.1      0.1
(9.0)    Mea)
_________________(00)__._
Total                         6.9      0.1      10.0    16.0
(5.9)    (0.1)    (6.8)    (12.8)
Not.:   (a) Amounts in parenthese denote IDA contributions.
Including contingoees.
(b) Contracts for civil works below US 0.15 million
would be procured through LCB, subject to IDA's approval.
(e) Contracts for vehicles and equipment below US8 0.15 million
would be awarded through prudent international shopping
following IDA guidelines.
(d) Sample Survey studies, training fellowships and
consultants will be procured following IDA guidelins.
(,) Scretariat of the Higher Coamittoe financed by the Government
Disbursements
Category                              Amount                   X
(US * millign)
Civil Works                                4.1          100% (of expenditures)
Vehicles, furniture
and  quip ment                           9.8          199W (of expenditures)
Studies, tratning
and consultants                          8.1          100X (of expenditures)
Operating costs                            0.1          Declining Basis (f)
Unallocated                                2.7
TOTAL (a)                        15.8
Note:    (f) 10M  of expenditures up to USI S0.000; 751 up to US8 100.00;
B0X for the balance.
(a) including USS3.0 mlIion from the Swiss government and
administered by IDA.
IDA Fiscal Year
Estimated IDA Disbur a_nts        8a        89       89       91        92       93
…     --      …- --(USM  mi;lion) --------------
Yearly                  0.8       8.5      7.5      8.8      0.1       9.0
Cumulative              0.8      4.3      11.8     16.8     15.7      16.8



7-
Schedule C
CHAD
ECONOMIC AN) FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(i)  Time taken to prepare:               2 months
(ii)  Prepared by:                         Government and IDA
(iii)  First IDA mission:                   March 1987
(iv)  Appraisal mission departure:         March 1987
(v)  Negotiations:                        June 1987
(vi)  Planned date of effectiveness;       April 29, 1988
(vii)  List of relevant documents:          None



-8
Schedule D
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHAD
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(As of October 31, 1987)
Amount in UF$ million
(less cancellations) a/
Credit No.      Fiscal Year      Purpose                IDA c/   Undisbursed
2 credits have been cancelled and fully rapaid b/
11 credits have been fully disbursed                    31.59
Cr.489-1       1976           Sategui-Deressia
Irrigation Supplement    8.00       0.06
Cr.664         1976           Rural Projects Fund       12.00       0.21
Cr.811         1978           Third Education             8.30      3.83
Cr.1716        1986           Cotton Program            15.00      11.29
Cr.1728        1986           Highway Maintenance       20.00      18.70
Cr.1775        1987           Agriculture Sector
Rehabilitation d/        17.40     19.16
TOTAL                                                  112.29      53.25
of which has been repaid                                 1.76
Total now held by IDA                                  110.53
Amount sold                      4.88
of which repaid                 4.88
Total undisbursed                                                  S3.25
a/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
b/ The Second Livestock (US$ 11.5) and Third Highway (US$ 7.6) Projects
were cancelled before becoming effective, on October 16, 1980. Supplemental
credits were approved for the First and Second Education Projects and for
the Sategui-Deressia Project.
c/ Credit No. 1716-CD and higher are denominated in SDRs and are shown in
US$ equivalent based on exchange rates in effect at the time of
negotiations.



d/ Not yet effective
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 15, 1987)
None



- 10 -
Annex I
CHAD
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
A. Project Description
Institutional Framework for Economic and Financial Management.
1.        The Ministrv of Planning and Cooperation, with a staff of 121, is
responsible for economic planning, project programming and evaluation,
general economic research, and maintenance of the national statistical
base. It coordinates aid from the donor community and serves as liaison
and clearinghouse for the 40 NGOs in Chad. The Ministry also prepares the
investment plan and budget. Currently it is receiving assistance from the
United Nations Development Fund (UNDP), the European Development Fund
(EDF), the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, and the French
Aid Agency (FAC).
2.        The Ministry wants to strengthen its internal capability to
evaluate and coordinate investment projects. It is hampered in carrying
out its statistical role by a lack of reliable data: the last
administrative census was conducted 18 years ago. Resumption of household
and other sample surveys is hampered by the lack of a sample base. A
serious problem is the lack of office space, equipment and safe storage
areas for files, and staff are currently scattered among several locations.
While the Ministry has a high number of skilled professionals, many need
refresher training, and current projects, when complete, will require
additional skills. Staff are hindered by the absence of a ee--tral,
comprehensive source of documentation. The Government Gazette has not been
published in recent years and even a complete series of back issues is
lacking in the country.
3.        The Ministry of Finance, which has a staff of about 500 in
N'Djamena, handles public finance management, including overall supervision
of external borrowing and the collection of taxes and other revenues. Its
main task is to prepare the central budget and oversee its implementation.
Additional responsibilities are administration of the Treasury and
oversight of the financial operations of parastatal enterprises. The
French Government, the IMF and USAID are providing the Ministry with
technical assistants, training and logistical support.
4.        Design of a comprehensive, efficient and neutral tax system is
badly needed and requires an in-depth study of the entire Chadian fiscal
system. Revenue collection is constrained by inadequate logistical
support. To improve overall efficiency a study is needed to determine the
best configuration of the Ministry in the longer term. Particular issues
are the division of responsibilities for the Investment budget between the
Ministries of Finance and of Planning and Cooperation as well as the future



- 11 -
status of the CAA, which is slated to be integrated with the MIinistrv of
Finance. The Ministry of Finance's operations are seriously hampered bv a
lack of office space (buildings are often irreparablv damaged and so
exiguous that many employees lack office space), and by the dispersion of
staff at different locations around the city.
5.        The Ministry of Commerce and Industry has as its primary
responsibility the definition and implementation of policies and
regulations in the areas of trade and industry. Key functions are
oversight of implementation of the Investment Code, assistance to snall and
medium-sized enterprises, and supervision of public industrial enterprises.
The Ministry has the services of two experts financed bv the UNDP.
6.        The Ministry needs funds to send key staff abroad for short-term
refresher training in subjects related to the promotion of small-and medium
sized enterprises. It also needs two microcomputers with which to manage
its data files.
7.        The Caisse Autonome d'Amortissements (CAA) is an autonomous
Institution directly under the tutelle of the Presidency. Its principal
functions are to ensure the serxvicing of the public debt and to control all
public borrowing from external sources. The CAA requires two
micrecomputers to facilitate work now being carried out by hand.
8.        The Contr8le d'Etat is an autonomous auditing unit directly
attached to the Presidency. it needs two vehicles to transport its teams
of investigators, two microcomputers, and small office equipment.
9.        The Ecole Nationale d'Administration et de la Magistrature (ENAM)
is the only school in Chad devoted solely to training civil servants. ENAM
needs funds to complete the repair of its buildings which were badly
damaged during the war. Once its original buildings are repaired it can
free the temporary accommodation it now occupies so that they can be used
for short-term training. ENAM also needs funds to develop curricula and
materials for its short-term courses.
10.       The Centre d'Etudes et de Formation pour le Developpement (CEFOD)
carries out studies and publishes papers on topics related to the economic
and social development of Chad. Its library, while small, is still the
largest in Chad and is heavily used. The Government wants CEFOD to develop
a national documentation center. To do so, CEFOD will need an additional
US$125,000 to supplement its annual budget of US$120,000.
11.       There are 39 entities in Chad's parapublic sector, including 14
enterprises and two mixed-ownership banks. The public enterprise sector as
a whole suffers from several management-related problems, such as
insufficient management skills, inadequate financial controls, poor
accounting practices and inadequate records. The PFP calls for 16
diagnostic studies, but neither internal nor donor funds have been
available for this purpose.



- 12 -
12.       Proposed Project Activities.  The project will provide the
Ministries of Planning and Cooperation, Finance, and Commerce and Industry,
the CAA, the ContrSle d'Etat, ENAM and CEFOD with US$15.8 million (US$12.8
million from IDA and Swiss francs 5 million, or about $3.0 million
equivalent, from the Swiss Government), to be used as follows:
13.       (1) A technical assistance fund (US$4.0 million) will be set up
to provide short-term technical assistance and consultancies needed to
strengthen economic and financial management, to supplement Government and
donor resources applied to this area, to strengthen the Government's
capacity to conduct audits of public enterprises, and to procure a limited
amount of vital equipment and logistical support. Priority uses of the
fund are:
o    Diagnostic studies for 16 Government-supported enterprises
and, where necessary, establishment of basic accounting
systems for the enterprises.
o    A facility to furnish the technical Ministries with 27
person-months of ad hoc, short-term consultants to help with
the technical, economic and financial aspects of the
feasibility studies for proposed investments.
Strengthening fiscal revenue collection of the Ministry of
Finance by: (i) conducting a comprehensive study of the
fiscal system to identify ways to broaden the tax base,
increase the yield and improve the efficiency, equity and
neutrality of taxes; and (ii) assist in updating the tax
rolls and in developing procedures to detect unreported
revenue. (iii) support improvement of petroleum tax
collection. The three proposed actions will be monitored in
close collaboration with the IMF and with the bilateral
technical assistants working in this area.
o    Compilation of a national collection of legal and economic
documents, both Chadian and foreign, to help legal experts
establish the legislative framework required to support the
development efforts.
o    Purchase of vital office equipment, particularly
microcomputers, for the Contr^le d'Etat, the CAA and the
Ministrv of Commerce.
°    Study of the public administration system to identify the
optimal configuration and size of the Ministries, agencies
and public enterprises. The study will cover, in addition,
the future status of the CAA and the reorganization of
public enterprises and their relationship with the
Government.



- 13 -
o    Renewed publication of the Official Gazette and compendia of
previously unpublished legal and administrative texts by the
Secretariat General of the Government. This task will
entail the purchase of a small, simple printing press and
related equipment, and the training of staff to use it.
o   Unallocated funds for other critical short-term technical
assistance needs that might arise in the areas being
supported by this credit. A Higher Committee (see para.23)
will administer the funds.
The first, third and sixth items above are components of the Action Program
supporting the PFP.
14.       (2) The project will support the construction of two buildings
for the Ministries of Planning and Cooperation and of Finance (US$6.8
million). It will also provide adequate equipment and office furnishings
to enable the staff to carry out their duties effectively and efficiently.
15.       The Government has made land worth US$0.1 million available for
the buildings. The tract is the site of other Government offices and is
designated as a Government center. It is near the main residential area
and is served by utilities. The two buildings will be modular in nature to
facilitate later additions. Construction and the furnishings and equipment
will cost an estimated US$6.8 million. The estimates are based on a gross
area per employee, including walls, circulation and ancillary facilities,
of about 12.55 sq meters. It should be noted that because it is
land-locked and lacks local materials, construction costs in Chad are
higher than elsewhere in Africa.
16.       The project will finance, specifically: preparation of a site
plan for the entire administrative area, a more detailed site plan for the
buildings, detailed design for the buildings, and the provision of
equipment and furnishings. The Government will appoint an architectural
advisor, acceptable to IDA, by Mav 15, 1988, to assist in reviewing the
designs, tender documents and procurement of equipment and to oversee the
construction. Implementation of the project will be the responsibility of
the Ministry of Public Works.  The Government, with IDA agreement, will
select the firms to carry out the architectural and technical studies. The
proposed timeframe is about four years from May 1988. The studies and
competitive bids are to be completed in 17 months and construction in the
subsequent 25 months.
17.       (3) The project will finance a training component (US$0.9
million), with the focus on (i) reaching additional personnel beyond those
trained by counterparts, on formalizing the counterpart training so as to
institutionalize it, and refining and deepening the skills of those already
trained, and (ii) on developing expertise in four areas of emerging need:
public finance, quantitative economics, economic planning, and public
administration.



- 14 -
18.       The Ministry of Finance has prepared a training plan for 1988
involving 190 employees, while the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation is
to prepare one before the project becomes effective. Discussions with the
Ministries suggest the following priorities:
°    Short-term (3 to 6 months) in-country retraining and
practical courses, to he provided by Chadian institutions
such as ENAM or CEFOD. Funds in the amount of US$80,000
will be allocated to finish the repairs to ENAM's building
and for furnishings, and another US$30,000 will be made
available for curriculum development, teaching materials and
some additional equipment. With adequate resources and
space, ENAM has agreed to train 160 staff of the Ministry of
Finance in 1988-89 and 30 staff of the Ministry of Planning
and Cooperation.
o     oShort-term (3 to 6 months) out-of-country retraining and
upgrading of about 25 staff of the Government units who need
practical training related to economic and financial
management. A training plan, based on the two Ministries'
overall training plans, will be presented to the Higher
Committee (see below) and IDA by May 15, 1988.
long-term (4 to 5 years) out-of-country training of two
person each in the fields of public finance, quantitative
economics, public administration and economic planning,
areas where expertise will be needed and where donor
assistance is not available.
19.       A Higher Committee (see para.23), will select the candidates for
training and administer the training funds. Allocations will be made in
response to proposals submitted by the Ministries of Planning and
Cooperation, Finance, and Commerce, the Controle d'Etat and the CAA, with
the agreement of IDA.
20.       (4) A sample population survey (US$4.1 million) will provide the
Government and the private sector with essential information about the
distribution and characteristics of the Chadian population. These data are
the minimum starting point for re-establishing elementary sectoral data
bases, without which reliable development planning and programming at both
the national and sectoral levels are impossible. The demographic
information is seen as a prerequisite for establishing sound education and
health strategies and programs in particular. The survey will also provide
the sample base needed to conduct household expenditure surveys. This
effort will complement the ongoing UNDP-funded, World Bank-executed
regional project to measure the social impact of structural adjustment
programs.
21.       Because of a lack of internal experience in the Ministry of
Planning's Department of Statistics, this project component is best
assigned to an outside firm, selected in accordance with IDA guidelines for



- 15 -
consultants. This firm will, however, be asked to include on its team 10
qualified staff from the Statistics Department for on-the-job training.
The Government will pre-train those staff. All survey field personnel will
be recruited in Chad, mostly from among teachers and university students.
22.       The project will finance the full cost of the sample survey of
US$4.1 million. Of this, Swiss francs 5 million (about US$3.0 million
equivalent) will be a grant from the Swiss Government.  The cost estimates
were prepared in cooperation with the US Bureau of the Census. The
Government will organize a team and recruit the assis acce necessary to
prepare the detailed terms of reference and the tender documents by May 15,
1988. The United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) will
provide limited technical support from its own staff.
B. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND TMPLEMENTATION
23.       Project Execution and Organization.  Overall responsibilitv for
the implementation of the project will rest with the Ministry of Planning
and Cooperation. It will ensure that the agreed upon work is carried out
and will coordinate with other Government units. A Higher Committee,
consisting of the Secretary General to the Presidency, the Ministers of
Planning and Cooperation and of Finance, the "Secretaire d'Etat A la
Presidence charge de l'Inspection Gen6rale et du Contro^le d'Etat" and the
"Secr4taire General du Gouvernement", will be responsible for: (i)
administering the technical assistance and training funds; (ii) ensuring
that the execution of the building and survey components comply with the
overall goals of the project, and with Government and IDA policies on the
procurement of goods and services; and(iii) seeking prior IDA approval as
required. The Committee will delegate most of its oversight functions to
the Advisor to the Secretary General to the Presidency charged with
economic and financial matters and to the Directors General of Planning and
Finance. The Higher Committee will be assisted by a secretariat headed bv
a high-level Government official, acceptable to IDA, who will handle
project administration, and maintain proper accounts for IDA audits and
reviews. The Government will finance this secretariat. IDA will carry out
with the Government a review of implementation 18 months after project
effectiveness. IDA reserves the option to cancel at that time components
on which progress is insufficient. Coordination with other donors is
assured by the inclusion of an aid coordination specialist under the
UNDP-financed, bank-executed technical assistance project.
24.       Procurement.  The goods and services to be financed under the
project will be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA as
summarized in Schedule B. Construction of the Ministries' buildings will
be contracted following ICB procurement guidelines. Bidders for civil
works contracted under ICB will be prequalified. Minor civil works for
repairs estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100.000 mav be
procured following LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. To the extent
practicable, contracts for vehicles, furniture and other equipment shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of t'S$150.000 or
more. Such contracts would be awarded through ICB. Items or groups of



- 16 -
items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$150.000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
US$500.000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations sollicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the "Guidelines for procurement under IBRD loans
and IDA credits", in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Each
contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$500.000 or
more and each contract for furniture or equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$100.000 or more shall be subject to IDA's prior review.
Consultants financed under the project shall be subject to IDA approval and
shall be selected in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
25.       Disbursement.  The proposed credit would be disbursed against 100
percent of total expenditures for works, consulting services, training
programs and vehicles, furniture, computers and equipment, and on a
declining basis for recurrent expenses.
26.       Implementation Plan.  A summarv of the project's key activities
is presented in Schedule 1. Implementation of the main activities is
anticipated to take about four years, with so.,ie activities extending beyond
that. The project is expected to be fully completed by the end of 1993.
27.       Accounts and Audits.  The Secretariat of the Higher Committee
would establish and maintain consolidated accounts for all expenditures.
Auditors acceptable to IDA would review these accounts and supporting
records annually, and audit reports would be submitted to IDA not later
than six months after the end of each calendar year. Each Ministry
supported bv the project would prcduce quarterly progress reports on the
physical and financial performance of the project and on its institutional
impact. The secretariat would consolidate these reports for submission to
IDA, including detailed analyses and recommendations for discussions during
IDA supervision missions. The reports will be submitted no later than one
month after the end of each quarter.



- 17 -
ANNEX I
Schedule 1
CHAD
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
----------------------------------------
Timetable of Major Activities
Major Activities                                                 Date*
1. Techniel Assistance Fund
(e) choice of first 7 public institutions to be studied       May 30, 1988
(b) procurement period for 7 diagnostic studies               January - June 15, 1988
(c) completion of 7 diagnostic studies                       November 1988
(d) choice of 9 other public institutions to be studied      September 30, 1988
(e) procurmeent period for 9 diagnostic studies               October 1988 - January 1989
(f) completion of 9 diagnostic studies                        July 1989
(g) procurement period for fiscal study                       May - August 1988
(h) completion of fiscal study                               December 1988
(t) presidential and ministerial dcrse  on petroleum
taxation published                                        June 1988
t) compilation of national collection of legal and
economic documents                                        May 1988 - March 1990
(k) prepare T.O.R. for public administration study           May 1988
(I) procurement period for public administration study       May - August 1988
(i) completion of public administration study                 January 1989
(n) start of publication of official gazette                 June 1988
2. Training
(a) ENAM prepares short-term course outlines and cost
estimates                                                 May 15, 1988
(b) short-torm courses start                                 September 1988
(c) Higher Committee submits short-term out-of-country
training plan                                             May 15, 1988
(d) Higher Committee submits to IDA criteria for the
selection of long-term out-of-country training
candidates                                                May 15, 1988
(e) selection of long term training candidates               June 30, 1988
8. Sample Survoy
(a) organization of team to prepare T.O.R.                   May 15, 1988
(b) preparation of T.O.R. and tender documents for survey    May 15 - June S0, 1988
(c) procurement period for survey                            July - Nwvmber 1988
(d) sample survey contract ;mplementation                    Decemb er 1988 - Septembr 1991
4. Ministry Buildings
(a) nomination of architectural advisor                      May 15, 1988
(b) architectural competition for buildings                  May 30 - July 30, 1988
(c) preparation of plans and tender documents for buildings  September - December 1988
(d) procurement period for building contracts                January - September 1989
(e) nomination of engineering consultant                     September 1988
(f) contractor mobilisation period                           October 1989 - January 1990
(9) construction and equipment period                        February 1990 - October 1991



- 18 -
ANNEX I
Schedule 2
CHAD
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TRAINING
28.       The training component of the project is designed to fill the
most urgent gaps in the skills required for proper economic and financial
management of the countrv: accounting, project analysis and monitoring, and
related subjects. It will also strengthen more traditional skills such as
task management, and personnel administration. The program is primarily
directed at technical and other middle-level personnel of the Ministries of
Finance, Planning and Cooperation, and Conmerce and Industry, as well as of
the Controle d'Etat and the CAA. The program of long term training abroad
will provide the agencies most concerned with economic and financial
management with eight staff members highly qualified in the fields of
public finance, quantitative economics, economic planning, and public
administration.
29.       The program will also contribute to the reinforcement of the ENAM
and allow it to fulfill its obligation of short term traininR for public
sector employees.
30.       Over its four years duration, the program will provide training
for about 320 staff through short courses and 300 man months of overseas
training. Its total cost will be US$900,000.



- -            -                  IBRO 21014
.-    ,  '   ) i-
\sL   I   B   Y   A
.    Zo,iGr                                                         .
X                               (Y |                 \>      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BORKO Uf -  N h .E O9  -I 18E S TI 
C  H  A  D                       wJ                       Aj
Main roads                           '          *    I
Secoftdory roads                                                           LrJui
-Other roads-i                                
-  -RiversI                                                                                                                         i
- -Prefecture boundaries           Z                                    
-. Internotional boundaries           I                                      }                         __oFado
o   so  10 oo150  200  250                                                _ 
Kilomeoters                     .                                 J      
0      50       100      50                                            \\  
f    \\                              /                  1_ $unGhlua\ -
'N. k(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ - I  ouba
-t                                                                     ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T t   ANN
J\                                          B A T H RA   ikre  s     
-    Main roAads                  (Ma
N     G  E  R             Uon\dar roadzDjo mb
0   '''          300    150 
!                                                                          A D       b             U A  F  ** A  N*
' !                   /                             it         <,eo                               I        C           ba
X {5, ,>.~~~~~~~~/                                         _          O\     NAb...c,  ...      -.
NA  Mo  9z-Beidi
*  Goyam    sari'   ~ ~~~mCIma
/                              9    OoI~~o    Kounsro so                 CENT M A T                        FRC
'CAME  ROON   ~~~i                                                             EN  RA 
OCTOBER 1987



