Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16531
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAI)
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAG(EMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1872-CD)
April 30, 1997
Macroeconomics 3
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                      CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1                                               CFAF 515.5 (1996)
CFAF I million                                     US$1,940
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
Metric                                             U.S. Equivalent
I meter (m.)                                      3.28 feet (ft.)
I kilometer (km.)                                 0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)       =                  0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
I hectare (ha)                                    2.47 acres (a.)
1 metric ton (t)                                  2,205 pounds (lb.)
1 kilogram (kg)                                   2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President:          Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director (Acting):  Mr. David Berk
Technical Manager (Acting): Mr. Emmanuel Akpa
Staff Member:            Mr. Pierre Nadji



iii               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ATETIP      Agence Tchadienne d'Execution de Travaux d'Interet Public (Chadian
Agency of Public Works)
BCR         Bureau Central du Recensement (Census Bureau)
CAA         Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (Debt Management Office)
CAGPA       Cellule d'Appui a la Gestion des Projets et de l'Ajustement (Support
Office for Project Management and the Adjustment Program)
CE          Contr6le d'Etat (State Comptroller's Office)
CEFOD       Centre d'Etudes et de Formation pour le Developpement (Studies and
Training Center for Development)
ERC         Economic Recovery Program
ESAF        Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
ENAM        Ecole Nationale d'Administration et de la Magistrature (National School
of Administration and Magistracy)
FRC         Financial Rehabilitation Credit
GEF         Gestion Economique et Financi&re (Economic and Financial
Management Project
GOC         Government of Chad
GNP         Gross National Product
HCI         Haut Comite Interministeriel (Interministerial High Committe)
IA          Implementing Agency
IDA         International Development Association
IMF         International Monetary Fund
MoCI        Minist&re du Commerce et de l'Industrie (Ministry of Commerce and
Industry)
MoF         Minist&re des Finances et de l'Informatique (Ministry of Finance and
Computer Services)
MoP         Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation (Ministry of Plan and Cooperation)
PFP         Policy Framework Paper
PPU         Public Procurement Unit
PR          President's Report
SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SGG         Secretariat General au Gouvernement (General Secretariat of the
Government)
TA          Technical Assistance
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
ZOPP        Zielorientierte Projektplanung (Objective oriented project planning
method)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






iv
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .....................................................v
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................................... vi
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .................. 1
Background ......................................................1
A.   Statement and Evaluation of Objectives                   .2
B.  Achievement of Objectives                           .3
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                     .6
D. Project Sustainability                            .7
E. Bank Performance                                 .8
F. Borrower Performance                               .9
G. Assessment of Outcome .10
H. Future Operations .10
I. Key Lessons Learned .1
PART II STATISTICAL ANNEXES
APPENDICES
A.    Mission's Aide-memoire
B.    Borrower Contribution to the ICR - not completed
C.    Additional Information
D.    Map






v
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Republic of Chad
Economic and Financial Management Project (Credit 1872-CD)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic and
Financial Management Project in Chad, for which Credit 1872-CD in the amount of SDR
10.0 million was approved on January 26, 1988 and made effective on September 23,
1988. The credit was closed on June 30, 1996, two and a half years after the original
closing date of December 31, 1993. Final disbursement took place on December 12,
1996, at which time a balance of SDR 47,536.44 was canceled. Cofinancing for the
project was provided by the Swiss Government on grant terms in the amount of CHIF 5.0
million. The Swiss grant was closed on June 30, 1994. Final disbursement took place on
November 14, 1994, leaving an undisbursed amount of CHF 49,908.28.
2.    The ICR was prepared by Pierre Nadji from the Macroeconomics 3 Unit of the
Africa Regional Office (AFTM3), under the supervision of Alain D'Hoore (AFTM3), and
reviewed by Emmanuel Akpa, Acting Manager (AFTM3).
3.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final completion mission,
conducted from December 3 through 21, 1996. It is based on material in the project file.
The borrower contributed to the evaluation of the project's execution and initial
preparation during the course of the ICR mission, but did not submit a separate report.






vi
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Economic and Financial Management Project (Credit 1872-CD)
Republic of Chad
Background to IDA's Involvement
1.   In 1987, Chad was a country trying to rebuild itself, following the devastation of
six years of civil war from 1978 to 1983. The capital, N'Djamena was severely damaged,
especially the modem sector, and most government buildings were destroyed. The
country had a rudimentary administrative capacity, and revenues were scarce. Despite
these adverse conditions, the economy was recovering.  Rapid growth, from an
exceedingly low base in 1982. brought many economic indicators back to pre-war levels.
The Authorities considered that the time was ripe to start laying the foundations for
growth beyond the reconstruction phase, including implementing an appropriate set of
enabling policies. The basic objective of the Credit for Economic and Financial
Management Project (GEF in French, for Gestion Economique et Financiere) was to
support the preparation and implementation of such policies. The Credit was approved by
the Executive Directors in January 1988. It was a follow-up to the Policy Framework
Paper (PFP) drafted with the Chadian Government in November 1986 and negotiated in
March 1987 (para. 1-3 of main text).
Project Objectives
2.    The objective of the project was to strengthen the Government of Chad (GOC)
overall capacity to define and implement its development program, to carry out effective
economic and financial management, to monitor economic performance and to improve
the collection of revenues. As stated in the President's Report, "the project was to help
the Government: (i) in key areas of economic and financial management implement the
policies and action programs outlined in the PFP of 1987 and in the 1988 Financial
Rehabilitation Credit (FRC); (ii) work with the IMF to improve the collection of
revenues; (iii) supplement the work on economic and financial management being
supported by other donors; (iv) support training in areas that constrain the management of
economic development and Government operations." It had four components: (A)
construction of two office buildings for the Ministry of Plan and Cooperation and the
Ministry of Finance; (B) short and long-term training, in-country and abroad; (C) a
sample population survey; and (D) the preparation of various studies in economics,
finance and public administration. Technical assistance was clearly needed to enhance
the GOC's capacity to manage economic and financial reform. Hlowever, the objectives
were ill-defined and their relationship with the project description unclear. Wide in
scope, they lacked clarity and focus (para. 5, 6, 8).



Vil
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project was fully implemented, but the pace of implementation was erratic.
The GEF experienced numerous restructurings/refocusings, and had to be extended for
two years. It was affected by political instability. IDA's performance was satisfactory in
terms of project identification and supervision, but deficient in the preparation and
appraisal phase. Initially the objectives of the project lacked clarity. In addition,
numerous changes in task managers, six in six years, did not facilitate project
implementation and supervision. Transition delays were significant, especially during the
restructuring of the project. From 1993 onwards, ID)A's assistance helped refocus the
GEF, which proved crucial for the action plan laid out in the aftermath of the devaluation.
IDA's performance was particularly effective in two components of the project: the
population census and the divestiture program, which were both accomplished under a
very difficult working context, involving both the Chadians and Bank staff. Supervision
efforts enabled the continuation of the GEF under very adverse conditions, and allowed
an appropriate and quick response to the Borrower's needs, when the latter became fully
committed to the 1994 reform program (para. 19).
4.    Factors subject to Government control also affected the life of the project:
Government's commitment, its management of the implementing agency (IA), and its
monitoring of the project. Initially strong in the preparation phase, the Authorities'
commitment wavered as political instability worsened. It became strong again only after
1993, and resulted in the preparation of an action plan in 1994. The management of the
IA had the same evolution as Government's commitment. Initial weak management
resulted in implementation problems or bottlenecks, and poor selection of some of the
consultants. After 1993, the Borrower took strong initiatives to recruit appropriately
qualified counterparts and training candidates, and exhibited a stronger sense of
ownership.   Project development objectives began to be addressed in a more
comprehensive and efficient manner. Implementation of the GEF was further reinforced
by increased monitoring. Personnel management improved and through the creation of
high level committees, in June 1994, the GOC strongly reinforced the implementation of
its macroeconomic program (para. 20)
5.    Results. Between 1987 and the present, the capacity of Chad's Administration,
including its ability to assume the essential functions of the State, has been greatly
strengthened. The GEF has made a significant impact on1 the reconstruction of the
country, both in physical and institutional terms, despite the instability of the 1988-1993
period. The GEF achieved most of its objectives and the outcome is satisfactory, notably
to the extent that it supported the successful implementation of the reform program
introduced following the CFAF devaluation of January 1994. Financial management has
improved drastically as civil servants are now being paid regularly, the expenditure
program is better monitored, arrears have been reduced substantially, and revenues are
increasing. The overall fiscal deficit decreased from 26 percent of GDP in 1987 to 15
percent in 1996. Progress was made in economic management in terms of economic
reporting and in the formulation of macroeconomic policy. A significant number of civil



viii
servants have been trained in the areas of economics and public finance. The Ministry of
Finance (MoF), the Ministry of Plan (MoP), the National School of Administration and
Magistracy (ENAM), etc. have benefited from equipment and office improvements. The
GEF   was  able  to  help  restructure  the  public  sector  through  several
privatizations/liquidations. The number of public enterprises has been reduced drastically
(from 37 to 17 in 1993-1996). The first population census conducted since independence
was concluded (cofinanced by tLh Swiss Cooperation) and a legal database was created.
The GOC is staying the course on adjustment and a second TA project was begun in
1996. The Bank was able to respond with flexibility to changes (para. 32).
6.    More could have probably been achieved, as some of the activities did not fulfill
their objectives or were canceled (e.g. the construction of ministries, civil service census,
use of private contractor for petroleum tax collection). This was partly due to the
Borrower's poor institutional capacity but also weak IDA performance in terms of
preparation and appraisal. Other major impediments included high Bank staff turnover
and political instability. This meant high supervision costs. However, considering all of
the adverse factors, the results brought by the GEF are satisfactory, and could only have
been achieved through close collaboration between the Borrower and IDA, and other
donors (in particular, the population census cofinanced by the Swiss grant and the MoF
aided by French technical assistance).
Sustainability
7.    In recent years, Chad has made considerable progress in increasing its revenue
and controlling its expenditures.  In terms of institutional building, it significantly
improved skill levels, procedural approaches, and general operating systems in most
beneficiary agencies (MoF, the Public Procurement Unit - PPU, the Statistics Department
of the MoP). The administration is now able to run its most basic day to day operations.
However, there is no budgeting for the maintenance of new equipment and of
rehabilitated/new offices and for the regular training of staff. Sustainability is therefore
uncertain. Strong foundations for economic and financial management are still missing.
To ensure sustainability, further TA  and Government actions are needed.  The
sustainability of private sector development actions will depend on the completion of the
privatization program and on the Government's ability to create an environment (legal,
banking) conducive to the growth of the private sector (para. 23).
Lessons Learned
8.    Project preparation. The objectives of TA should be clearly defined from the
start. Sufficient resources should be allocated for the preparation phase. Within a context
of weak capacity and political volatility, such objectives should be modest and project
design flexible. Assistance for economic and financial management needs to reflect the
Government's strategy in terms of public financial management. Objectives and design of
the operation should be done in partnership with the Borrower and other donors. The
memorandum of the President (PR) or staff appraisal report (SAR) needs to contain an



ix
action plan.  Also, more importance should be given to cost/benefit analysis for
components that lend themselves to such treatment (para. 34).
9.    Bank performance. Bank flexibility is important in a country emerging from a
period of instability. The design of such an operation needs flexibility to respond
adequately to a dynamic environment. However, flexibility also means close supervision.
Continuity is essential in order to ensure follow-up on actions and recommendations.
There should be incentives to limit staff turnover. Also, tasks should not be
overcentralized and become the responsibility of a single person, as close supervision is
crucial to ensuring timely delivery of services and results on the ground (para. 35).
10.   Borrower performance. Beneficiaries should participate in all stages of the
project. Understanding the purpose and objective of an operation is a key implementing
factor. The organization and responsibilities of the project management unit should be
clearly specified before Board presentation in order to avoid implementation delays.
Adequate training in Bank procedures, including accounting and auditing, needs to be
provided in the preparation phase. Training time should also be allocated for refresher
courses and new counterpart staff during the life of the project. To maximize the impact
of training and the use of new equipment, working conditions of local counterparts need
to be improved to increase their motivation (para. 36).
11.   Training. To ensure that training is beneficial, a staff member must be legally
committed to staying at his post for a minimum time period thereafter. Training needs to
be part of an overall program, especially as regards public management.   A
comprehensive medium-term training program, designed by a specialist in public
administration, has to be carefully prepared during the initial stages of the operation
(para. 37).
12.   Donor coordination - In a country with very weak institutional capacity, the needs
of the Borrower are enormous. In order to maximize the impact of TA, close donor
coordination is essential. Capacity building actions for the Administration need to be
coordinated to ensure sustainability.  They have to take into account the overall
administrative framework.  The carrying-out of the population census was a good
example of effective donor coordination (para. 38).



PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    With an annual GNP per capita below US$200, Chad is one of the poorest
countries in the world. Since independence in 1960, its economic development has been
held back, not only by a landlocked location and harsh and variable climatic conditions,
but more importantly by a long series of armed conflicts. Since 1991, internal peace has
been restored and Chad has made progress in improving the management of its economy.
Chad has good development potential. The possibilities for expanding agricultural output
are significant and real. In addition, the country has substantial petroleum resources
which are in the process of being developed.
2.   In 1987, Chad was a country trying to rebuild itself, following the devastation of
six years of civil war from 1978 to 1983. The capital, N'Djamena was severely damaged,
especially the modern sector, and most government buildings were destroyed. The
country had a rudimentary administrative capacity, and revenues were scarce. Despite
these adverse conditions, the economy was recovering.  Rapid growth, from an
exceedingly low base in 1982, brought many economic indicators back to pre-war levels.
The Authorities considered that the time was ripe to start laying the foundations for
growth beyond the reconstruction phase, including implementing an appropriate set of
enabling policies.  The basic objective of the Credit for Economic and Financial
Management Project (GEF for Gestion Economique et Financi&re) was to support the
preparation and implementation of such policies.
3.    The Credit was approved by the Executive Directors in January 1988. It was a
follow-up to the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) drafted with the Chadian Government in
November 1986 and negotiated in March 1987. The PFP emphasized the need to
strengthen the capacity of the Government for economic management so that it could
better define and execute its development strategy, investment program and sector
policies, as well as improve revenue collection. Implementation of the policy framework
depended above all on political will. The Government in place at the time was genuinely
committed. In addition, donors' assistance (financial and technical assistance - TA) and
appropriate coordination with the Government, as well as among donors, was crucial.
External financing was needed to meet recurrent costs. A frank dialogue with the
Authorities on strategies and policies had to be maintained. Finally, ensuring the quality
and effective use of TA was an important concern.
4.    Given Chad's high dependence on aid, the GOC had limited leeway to influence
allocation decisions. To become an equal partner with its donors, Chad needed to acquire
the necessary statistical base, knowledge and analytical skills. The GEF was an attempt
to meet those needs. It was designed to support both the IMF ESAF program, approved
in 1987, and the IDA Financial Rehabilitation Credit (FRC; Credit 1954-CD). approved
in July 1988.



A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Objectives of the Credit
5.    The objective of the project was to strengthen the GOC's overall capacity to
define and implement its development program, to carry out effective economic and
financial management, to monitor economic performnance and to improve the collection of
revenues. As stated in the President's Report, "the project was to help the Government:
(i) in key areas of economic and financial management implement the policies and action
programs outlined in the PFP of 1987 and in the FRC; (ii) work with the IMF to improve
the collection of revenues; (iii) supplement the work on economic and financial
management being supported by other donors; (iv) support training in areas that constrain
the management of economic development and Government operations." It had four
components: (A) construction of two office buildings for the Ministry of Plan and
Cooperation and the Ministry of Finance; (B) short and long-term training, in-country and
abroad; (C) a sample population survey; and (D) the preparation of various studies in
economics, finance and public administration.  fn other words, GEF's underlying
objective was to assist the GOC in its reconstruction efforts by helping the country
improve its absorption capacity as well as resume the basic State functions of raising
revenues and managing expenditures, through the reconstruction of physical facilities and
the improvement of the civil service work force.
Assessment of the Objectives
6.    The project's objectives were ill-defined and their relationship with the project
description unclear. At the time of project preparation, much of the country's economic
infrastructure had been destroyed, and the public administration had been seriously
disrupted. TA was clearly needed to enhance the Government's capacity to manage
economic and financial reform, and to gather and analyze data on the economy. Better
economic and financial management would help achieve the goal of increasing revenues.
Considering the country's situation in 1988, attaining these objectives meant extensive
training of the administration and the restoration of its infrastructure, including buildings
and equipment. The GEF was to provide assistance for such actions.
7.    The PFP's objectives in public finance were to: (i) increase revenues by
strengthening tax collection and administration, reduce exemptions and introduce a new
system for taxing petroleum products; (ii) restrain the growth of expenditures through the
application of strict controls such as quarterly ceilings, the integration of certain extra-
budgetary expenditures into the general Treasury balance sheet, and limiting recruitment
of civil servants; (iii) eliminate existing domestic arrears and prevent the accumulation of
new ones; and (iv) improve external debt management with respect to both borrowing
and orderly debt service payment. The Credit's objectives covered most of these points,
implying progress in revenue collection and expenditure control, but the PR did not
specify any sequencing of actions and how each activity was linked to the objectives.
8.    Wide in scope, the objectives lacked clarity and focus. In addition, four main
components and eight beneficiaries (SGG, MoP, MoF, MoCI, CAA, CE, ENAM, and
2



CEFOD) increased the complexity of the project. Given the Government's weak
implementation capacity, the operation was difficult to manage for the Borrower and
needed very close supervision from IDA.  The implementation of the GEF was
characterized by a series of attempts at restructuring/redefining the project components,
including reallocation of funds (Annex C, Tables 1 and 2).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
9.    The degree to which the project achieved its major objectives can be assessed
according to four main categories: (i) macroeconomic policies, (ii) institutional
development, (iii) physical objectives, and (iv) private sector development/public
enterprise reform objectives.
Macroeconomic Policies
10.   The main objective under this category was to strengthen the Government's
capacity to prepare and implement its reform  program.  Criteria for assessing
performance under this objective were not defined in the PR nor in the subsequent credit
amendments. While the GEF was unable to support the 1987 reform program, it was able
to meet the objective for the 1994 program. In that sense, the achievement of this
objective was substantial.
11.   The Borrower progressively increased its ability to not only collect data but also
analyze, monitor and make necessary policy adjustments to maintain economic stability.
Initially, owing to implementation delays, the project was not able to support the FRC
and the IMF ESAF program of 1988. After 1988, the derailment of the reform program
and the eventual cancellation of the FRC in 1992 had a negative impact on everyday
working relations between IDA and the GOC. Changes in Minister of Finance were
frequent and made it difficult to develop a coherent program during the 1990-92 period.
The CFAF devaluation of January 1994 dramatically changed the GOC's desire/need for
the project's support. The GOC became fully committed to implementing a new reform
program in 1994 and the GEF was instrumental in helping the GOC meet the program
objectives. During the first half of 1994 when the adjustment program had veered off-
track, the GEF provided support to correct the situation. Aware of the importance of the
reform program, including the GEF's role in supporting it, the GOC realized that actions
needed to be taken promptly in order to meet the macro objectives. An action plan was
prepared (Annex C, Table 3). To ensure and reinforce its monitoring of the
implementation of the plan, the GOC set up a High Interministerial Committee (HCI -
"Haut Comite Interministeriel") with various subcommittees, one of them being a unit
providing support for the formulation of a medium-term policy framework. The unit had
an excellent impact on the preparation of the progress report for the IMF Stand-by
Arrangement, including the monitoring of the performance of the program.
12.   The project supported the preparation of the action plan for a successful
completion of the program. This in turn, paved the way for a revised policy agenda laid-
out in a new PFP in August 1995, supported by an IMF ESAF program (September
3



1995), and an IDA SAC (February 1996). Performance under the program has been
satisfactory. The design of the project allowed for a quick reaction from IDA to meet the
Borrower's needs. A system to monitor the macroeconomic situation was established
(regular publication of economic reports, the execution of the budget, the monthly
publication of price indices). Financing was provided for the extension of the retail price
index survey, including the bimonthly publication of the price index report and data
gathering. This facilitated the monitoring of the reform program.
Institutional Development
13.   The objective was to supplement the assistance of other donors in economic and
financial management, and to support training in areas constraining the management of
economic development and government operations. Institutional development was
achieved through the provision of training and equipment, in particular for the MoF to
improve financial management. The same was true for the MoP (BCR - Census Bureau,
Statistics department) - which received assistance for the completion of the population
census and economic monitoring and the Public Procurement Unit (PPU). Achievement
was substantial as most of the objectives of the 1994 action plan were met:
Strengthening of petroleum tax collection. This activity was a failure as petroleum tax
collections fell to their lowest levels. The objective was to reduce fraud in petroleum
imports, increase revenue collection, and also upgrade local capacity.  A private
contractor was hired to collect and manage petroleum taxes, while training local staff to
take over the activity after two years. The contract was terminated after the first year.
Strengthening of customs and tax administration. In collaboration with the IMF and the
French Cooperation, the GOC made substantial achievements in this area, as evidenced
by the increase in government revenues from 6.9 percent of GDP in 1994 to 10 percent in
1996. A customs advisor hired by the IMF and financed by the GEF was assigned to the
Customs Department for two years. This assistance was completed by the training of 50
civil servants for the Customs and Treasury departments. The project also supported the
computerization of the Treasury and Payroll in the MoF, in coordination with French TA.
With the Treasury computerized, salaries are now payable on the 25th of the month.
Actions to improve public financial management.  The following actions were
undertaken: (i) civil service census: the quality of the work was very poor and the
administration is still unable to reconcile personnel information between the various
ministries, and payroll; (ii) in order to better implement the public expenditure program,
the PPU was provided with equipment and training for 60 agents. Procurement improved
significantly as implementation of IDA-financed projects accelerated; (iii) a unit for
project implementation was organized at the MoP to improve project management, audit
and evaluation, preparation of the investment budget and associated counterpart funding.
The unit is currently not assuming its role; and (iv) to help rebuild the judicial system,
assistance was provided for the setting-up of a legal database by CEFOD, a local NGO.
It included both budget financing and equipment which helped to create the only legal
database in the country.
4



Population census. This census was completed and most results were published. IDA
supported field work, data collection, training of 11,000 census agents, and data
processing, which were all completed in two years. The Swiss Cooperation contributed 5
million CHF which financed field work, technical assistance, and cartography work. It
was a good example of effective donor coordination; other donors included USAID,
FNUAP, UNDP and the French Cooperation. The population census became the basis for
the preparation of democratic elections in 1996, which included a constitutional
referendum, presidential elections, and legislative elections. It is currently helping to
enhance the Government's ability to formulate and monitor its economic policies.
Physical Objectives
14.   The achievement was substantial. The GEF helped rehabilitate/construct office
buildings for the MoF (Treasury, Customs, and Fiscal departments) and ENAM's main
building. In addition, it financed significant amounts of equipment (office material,
computer, transport, furniture) for the MoF, GEF management unit, MoP (BCR), etc..
ENAM is now able to function and has been quite successful in providing training to the
administration, enabling full implementation of the local training activity supported by
the GEF. The beneficiary departments of the MoF have had significant improvements in
their working conditions, allowing them to make use of the equipment financed by the
Credit. Initially this component was to finance the construction of two buildings for the
MoP and the MoF. This component was canceled. Resources were reallocated towards
the rehabilitation/construction of offices; and the revised civil works objective was fully
met.
Private Sector Development - Public Enterprise Reform
15.   The achievement was substantial as the number of public enterprises decreased
from 37 to 17 during 1993-1996. Initially, the GEF was to finance a series of diagnostic
studies for sixteen government-supported enterprises with the objective to strengthen the
Government's capacity to conduct audits of public enterprises. Nine studies were
completed. The objective was then modified as the Authorities, with IDA support,
decided to launch a divestiture program. In 1992, the implementation of the divestiture
program accelerated at the initiative of the Authorities. The commitment of the GOC was
a key factor in this success. In 1992, the GOC appointed a Secretary for the divestiture
program. He was a motivated high level official and very efficient in following each case
and in selecting qualified personnel to execute the program. The flexible design of the
project helped in developing this component and allowed the financing of the budget of
the Secretariat for the divestiture program. Despite some delays in 1996, the divestiture
program  was a success.  Progress made in that area compares very well with
disengagement programs elsewhere. The GEF was able to help restructure the public
sector through several privatization/liquidations.
5



Other
16.   The GEF provided financing for activities not initially included in the Credit
Agreement (ATETIP, consultancies for the preparation of the domestic energy strategy
and for the Rural Development Round Table). While this helped the implementation of
other IDA financed projects, in particular ATETIP, these activities do not directly fall
into the objectives of the project, and cannot therefore be evaluated within the project
framework.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
17.   There were two categories of factors affecting the project: factors not subject to
Government control and factors subject to Government control.
Factors not Subject to Government Control
18.   Two important factors fall under this category: political instability and IDA's
performance. Political instability adversely affected the implementation of the project,
which was characterized by delays and restructurings. During the life of the project,
Chad went through a coup d'etat in 1990, numerous cabinet reshuffles, a constitutional
referendum and presidential elections in 1996. Government policies were implemented at
an uneven pace, often interrupted and redirected, in particular during the 1989-1993
period. The 1987 reform program, which the GEF aimed to support, could not be
implemented, as the Government, faced with increasing political instability, was more
concerned about its survival. In addition the Minister of Plan, who had been a key actor
in the preparation of the project, died in a plane crash in 1989. Such a series of
unforeseen events did not enable the Authorities to develop/implement a sound plan of
action.
19.  IDA performance - IDA's performance was initially weak as the objectives of the
project lacked clarity. In addition, numerous changes in task managers, six in six years,
were a delaying factor during the execution phase. Transition delays were significant,
especially during the restructuring phase of the project. From 1993 onwards, IDA's
assistance helped refocus the GEF, which proved crucial for the action plan laid out in the
aftermath of the devaluation. IDA's performance was particularly effective in two
components of the project: the population census and the divestiture program, which were
both accomplished under a very difficult working context, involving both the Chadians
and Bank staff. The census was done in the aftermath of the 1990 coup d'etat. The
divestiture program was initiated and successfully implemented in a country which
lacked the appropriate legal/judicial framework.
Factors Subject to Government Control
20.   Government's commitment, its management of the implementing agency (IA),
and its monitoring of the project were the three essential factors subject to Government
control. Although strong, Government's commitment was uneven. It was strong during
the preparation phase, notably in the context of the reform program. But then delays
6



occurred in the signing of the Credit Agreement and in the fulfillment of conditions of
effectiveness. The GOC's commitment strengthened only after 1993, as evidenced by its
effort in the implementation of the action plan: the carrying out of its macroeconomic
policy (1994-96), its commitment to achieving the objectives of the project, the selection
of staff, its financial contribution through counterpart funds, and its laying-out of
administrative procedures.
21.   Good management of the IA was essential in meeting the GEF's objective.
Initially the GOC had difficulties in setting up the project management unit. The unit
was poorly organized. The first project director basically worked alone and did not have
all the skills required to run such a complex operation. The shortage of skilled
counterparts led to implementation problems or bottlenecks and poor selection of some of
the consultants. Implementation was enhanced with the selection of a new project
director and the reinforcement of the IA in 1993. After 1993, the Borrower took strong
initiatives to recruit appropriately qualified counterparts and training candidates and
exhibited a stronger sense of ownership. Project development objectives began to be
addressed in a more comprehensive and efficient manner.
22.   Implementation of the GEF was further reinforced by increased monitoring. There
was better personnel management, including institutional reinforcement with a structure
of committees which played a key role in establishing and following the macro
framework of 1994.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
23.   Project sustainability is uncertain. The GEF assisted the Borrower in designing
and implementing its economic recovery and structural adjustment program subsequent
to the devaluation. In addition, it also financed the physical rehabilitation of government
offices (Customs, Treasury, Fiscal departments). Chad was able to meet its revenue
target as well as control its expenditure program. In terms of institutional building, it
significantly improved ski]l levels, procedural approaches, and general operating systems
in most of the beneficiary agencies, in particular in the MoF (Treasury, Budget, Customs,
Fiscal departments), the PPU, and the Statistics Department of the MoP. It enabled the
administration to run its most basic day to day operations. To uphold these results in the
medium-term, adequate resources must be allocated for the maintenance of new
equipment and offices and for the regular training of staff. So far, actions to that effect
have not been significant as evidenced by the high number of inoperative vehicles
financed by GEF, the physical deterioration of the Ngueli customs office, the lack of
resources of the BCR, and the absence of a training program for civil servants.
Sustainability will depend on the next course of actions that the GOC will follow. In
terms of economic and financial management, strong foundations are still missing. They
will be laid-down only with a carefully planned and implemented civil service reform.
To ensure sustainability, further TA  and Government actions are needed.  The
sustainability of private sector development actions will depend on the completion of the
privatization program, and on the Government's ability to create an environment (legal,
banking) conducive to the growth of the private sector.
7



E. BANK PERFORMANCE
24.   Overall Bank performance was satisfactory, despite some weaknesses in
preparation assistance and in appraisal. The operation was fully implemented in spite of
a very difficult environment at times. The Bank was able to respond with flexibility to
unforeseen changes of events. It made the right decision not to cancel the operation at a
time when all activities were on hold.
25.   The Bank recognized the institutional weaknesses of the Government, and
therefore, identified the overall objective. In that sense, identification was satisfactory.
But insufficient time was allocated for the preparation phase, i.e., only two months. The
PR just proposed a list of actions without any sequencing for implementation nor clear
links with the objectives. There is no documentation indicating that there was a
comprehensive diagnosis of the needs of beneficiaries nor a training program based on a
civil service framework. The main studies were not clearly linked with the objectives and
outcomes of the project. There was no action plan.
26.   The appraisal was not comprehensive enough, considering the several components
and beneficiaries of the project.  For the construction component, cost analysis of
alternative options was non-existent, e.g., rehabilitation of buildings versus construction.
In addition, the risk analysis failed to assess the potential impact of existing internal
rivalries/tensions within the country at the time and how this might delay
implementation.
27.   Overall supervision was satisfactory. Despite some weaknesses in the beginning
and at the end of the project, supervision missions were able to identify and assess
implementation problems. This resulted in a timely restructuring of the GEF and in
meeting most of the objectives. By March 1990, the project was still working without a
budget and an annual work program, and thus without a tool for forward planning of
procurement activities. The first supervision missions did not insist sufficiently on the
financial management aspects of the project. Nevertheless, the Bank realized the faulty
design of the project as indicated by the low ratings in the form 590s. A lot of resources
were spent in redesigning the operation (field time and supervision missions). IDA
deserved credit for its persistence and the idea of having a ZOPP workshop (1993) which
provided an opportunity to redefine the project in a more participatory way and to build
ownership. Following refocusing/restructuring of the GEF in 1994, IDA proceeded with
a more comprehensive reappraisal, resulting in the rapid implementation of a revised set
of actions in response to the needs of the Borrower. The reappraisal could have been
more comprehensive - as regards the failure in strengthening petroleum tax collection, the
ICR mission revealed that there was no involvement of the beneficiaries (Customs
department). Other documentation and interviews clearly indicated strong opposition
from the IMF and from some Bank staff concerning the chosen path of action.
Nonetheless, the Bank's assessment was crucial in convincing both management and the
Borrower to maintain/restructure the project.
8



28.   Despite the satisfactory performance, some shortcomings in supervision adversely
affected the implementation of the project. Follow-up on advice and decisions was not
always adequate due to staff turnover and led to delays. The project had six task
managers in its first six years. In addition, political instability, frequent changes in
Minister of Finance, and the weak IA in 1990-1993 adversely affected the Bank's
performance. But this was not the case in 1994-1996. As implementation accelerated,
less time was spent on supervision. No form 590s were completed in 1996. The lack of a
Resident Representative during 1994-1996 did not help under those circumstances.
Interviews during the ICR mission revealed that the Bank's response was sometimes very
slow, in particular, regarding the public enterprise component after 1994. This created
implementation delays and the privatization program did not meet the deadline of the
reform program. These shortcomings affected the selection of consultants, often done
hastily with unfocused terms of reference, resulting in reports of poor quality work (civil
service census). Insufficient time was allocated to the accounting and auditing of the
project and questions were raised internally concerning the selection of qualified auditing
firms. Considering the many activities conducted during 1994-1996, better delegation of
authority from the task manager to other Bank staff could have reinforced supervision.
29.   The Bank performed well in ensuring coordination with other donors: IMF
(customs), France (MoF, privatization), UNDP (MoP), and the Swiss Cooperation
(population census). This facilitated positive results in the Customs, Treasury, and Fiscal
Departments, in the Statistics Department of the MoP, and for the population census.
Coordination could have been better with UNDP at the MoP. An IDA report on
improving statistics in Chad was written in October 1994 but was never followed
through. It is being reviewed this year (1997). There was no consultation with the African
Development Bank, which was ready at some point to provide TA to the Budget
Department of the MoF but canceled it in light of the Bank's program, which did not
materialize until January 1997 under Credit 2818 - Capacity Building Project for
Economic and Financial Management.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.   Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory but varied throughout the life of
the project. Initially weak during the 1988-1993 period, it became quite strong in 1994-
1996. As the GOC had quite ambitious development plans in 1987, its commitment was
strong during the identification phase, but weakened during preparation. There were
significant delays in meeting conditions of effectiveness. During the 1988-93 period, the
Borrower performance was adversely affected by political instability and its limited
institutional capacity.  There were numerous operation problems: (i) delays in
auditing/accounting reports which almost resulted in the suspension of the project; (ii)
misuse of funds which the GOC promptly reimbursed as the problem was identified; (iii)
delays in the payment of counterpart funds; (iv) delays in disbursements; (v) poor project
monitoring and evaluation; and (vi) delays in meeting legal covenants. Nevertheless, the
Authorities remained committed to the overall objective of the GEF, as there was a
constant dialogue with the Bank throughout numerous restructuring attempts. This was a
learning experience for the GOC, as they were eventually able to plan their activities
9



within the context of a medium-term framework. The ZOPP workshop enabled the
Authorities to identify their needs and weaknesses. It gave the Government the
momentum it needed to produce the 1994 action plan, in which the Borrower was very
proactive both in the preparation and implementation stages. The determination of the
GOC allowed for the full implementation of the project. Performance improved
significantly during 1994-1996, as the GEF was virtually fully disbursed. Most of the
civil works, computer and office material was delivered during that period, and training
was carried-out. The Borrower complied with most legal covenants except for sections
3.05 (b) and 3.07 which relate to components which were dropped during the
restructuring of the project (construction of ministries and training abroad).
31.   Shortage of qualified staff is still a problem lor the administration, and makes the
assessment of budgetary needs a difficult exercise. Motivation of staff also needs to be
addressed both in terms of salary issues and working conditions.  Budgeting for
counterpart funds is often an issue, as well as procurement matters. More TA is needed
for accounting and auditing. Nevertheless, with its increased experience, the Borrower is
now able to take more initiative in discussions with various donor agencies, is able to
discuss the kind of assistance it requires, and to negotiate the manner in which this
assistance should be provided.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
32.   Comparing the capacity of Chad's administration, including its ability to assume
the essential functions of the State, in 1987 and at present, the GEF made a significant
impact on the reconstruction of the country, both in physical and institutional terms. This
is even more so remarkable given the instability of the 1988-1993 period. The GEF
achieved most of its objectives and the outcome is satisfactory, notably to the extent that
it supported the successful implementation of the 1994 reform program. Financial
management has improved drastically as civil servants are now being paid regularly, the
expenditure program is better monitored, arrears have been reduced substantially, and
revenues are increasing. The overall fiscal deficit clecreased from 26 percent of GDP in
1987 to 15 percent in 1996 (Annex C, Table 5). Progress was made in economic
management in terms of economic reporting and in the formulation of macroeconomic
policy. The progress achieved in institutional buildup looks sustainable to the extent that
the new processes have become part of daily economic management practices. However,
sustainability can only be ensured with adequate budget allocations for the financing of
recurrent costs. This is presently not the case.  Further, the Government remains
committed to reform, a second SAC operation is in preparation and a second TA project
was begun in 1996.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
33.   IDA's Capacity Building Project for Economic and Financial Management
(Credit 2818) was approved in February 1996 for an amount of US$ 8.0 million. It is the
second TA project in Chad. It continues the efforts made along the same objectives of
capacity building in economic and financial management and is the basis for executing
10



the country's assistance strategy and reform program under which IDA is preparing a
second adjustment credit.  Strengthening the Borrower's capacity to formulate and
implement a well-designed and integrated set of economic policies and reforms is a key
priority in the context of the coming oil windfall and all its potential adverse effects, as
evidenced in other countries.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
34.   Project preparation. The objective of TA should be clearly defined from the start.
Sufficient resources should be allocated for the preparation phase. Within a context of
weak capacity and political volatility, such objectives should be modest and project
design flexible. Assistance for economic and financial management needs to reflect the
Government s strategy in terms of public financial management. Objectives and design
of the operation should be done in partnership with the Borrower and other donors. The
PR or SAR needs to contain an action plan. Also, more importance should be given to
cost/benefit analysis for components that lend themselves to such treatment.
35.   Bank performnance. Bank flexibility is important in a country emerging from a
period of instability. The design of such an operation needs flexibility to respond
adequately to a dynamic environment. However, flexibility also means close supervision.
Continuity is essential in order to ensure follow-up on actions and recommendations.
There should be incentives to limit staff turnover. Also, tasks should not be
overcentralized and become the responsibility of a single person, as close supervision is
crucial to ensuring timely delivery of services and results on the ground.
36.   Borrower performance. Beneficiaries should participate in all stages of the
project. Understanding the purpose and objectives of an operation is a key implementing
factor. The organization and responsibilities of the project management unit should be
clearly specified before Board presentation in order to avoid implementation delays.
Adequate training in Bank procedures, including accounting and auditing, needs to be
provided in the preparation phase. Training time should also be allocated for refresher
courses and new counterpart staff during the life of the project. To maximize the impact
of training and the use of new equipment, working conditions of local counterparts need
to be improved to increase their motivation.
37.   Training. To ensure that training is beneficial, a staff member must be legally
committed to staying at his/her post for a minimum time period thereafter. Training
needs to be part of an overall program, especially as regards public management. A
comprehensive medium-term training program, designed by a specialist in public
administration, has to be carefully prepared in the initial stages of the operation.
38.   Donor coordination. In a country with very weak institutional capacity, the needs
of the Borrower are enormous. In order to maximize the impact of TA, close donor
coordination is essential. Capacity building actions for the administration need to be
coordinated to ensure sustainability.   They must take into account the overall
11



administrative framework. The carrying-out of the population census was a good
example of effective donor coordination.
12



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3: Project Timetable
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions






Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Substantial    Partial     Negligible       Not
applicable
Macro policies                 X
Sector policies                                                         X
Financial objectives                                                    X
Institutional development      X
Physical objectives            X
Poverty reduction                                                       X
Gender issues                                                           X
Other social objectives                                                 X
Environrnental objectives                                               X
Public sector management       X
Private sector development     X
Other (specify)                                   _
B. Project sustainability      Likely         Unlikely     Uncertain
x
C. Bank performance             Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
Identification                                         X
Preparation assistance                                               X
Appraisal                                                            X
Supervision                                             X
D. Borrower performance Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory Deficient
Preparation                                                   X
Implementation                                   X
Covenant compliance                              X
Operation (if applicable)       N/A
E. Assessment      Highly satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory
of Outcome
x



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title     Purpose       Year of approval        Status
Preceding operations
1. Agricultural Sector                 1987              Closed
Rehabilitation      _______
2. Highway                             1986              Closed
Maintenance
3. Cotton Program                      1986              Closed
Following operations
1. Road             Rehabilitation of    1988            Closed
Reconstruction       high priority roads.
2. Livestock         Increase livestock   1988           Closed
production,
producer income
and government
revenue.
3. Financial         Alleviate the     1988              Cancelled
Rehabilitation Credit  economy's
structural
constraints on
growth while
containing external
and internal
imbalances.
4. Economic          Support the 1994    1994            Closed
Recovery Credit      post-devaluation
reform program



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle         Date planned         Date actual/latest
estimate
Identification                  N/A                    February 23, 1987
(Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                     N/A                    N/A
Appraisal                       Mid-April 1987         March 23, 1987
Negotiations                    June 1987              June 27, 29, 1987
Letter of development policy    N/A                    N/A
Board presentation              June 1987              January 26, 1988
Signing                         N/A                    April 27, 1988
Effectiveness                   April 29, 1988         September 23, 1988
First tranche release           N/A                    N/A
Midterm review                  N/A                    March 1990
Second (and third) tranche release   N/A               N/A
Project completion              December 31, 1993      June 30. 1996
Loan closing                    December 31, 1993      June 30, 1996



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY 90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96
Appraisal estimate        11.80   15.60     15.70    15.80    15.80     15.8    15.80
Actual                     1.02    1.55      1.93     3.21     5.36     11.85   14.50
Actual as % of estimate    9%      10%        13%     20%      30%      75%     92%
Date of final disbursement  3/31/90  3/31/91  6/30/92  6/30/93  6/30/94  6/30/95  4/30/96
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Estimated               Actual
I. Key implementation indicators in SAR
President's Report                    _ _
1 .
2.         AUNEN
II. Modified indicators               __               _
1.
2.          NONE
III. Other indicators
2..          NONE_ __
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated               Actual
I. Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report
1.
2.          NONE
3.
II. Modified indicators
1.-
2.          NONE
3.
III. Modified indicators for future operation
1.
2.          NONE
3.



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined at          Status          Impact of study
appraisallredefined
1. Diagnostic studies  to strengthen the     9 studies completed    Privatisation/
for 16 Government-   Government's capacity to                      Liquidation of
supported enterprises  conduct audits of public                    public enterprises,
enterprises                                   divestiture program.
2. Study of the fiscal  to identify ways to   Cancelled
system               broaden the tax base,
increase the yield and
improve the efficiency,
equity and neutrality of
taxes.
3. Study of the     to identify the optimal    Done in 1995        Integration of CAA
public administration  configuration and size of                   within MoF,
system              the ministries, agencies                       divestiture program.
and public enterprises;                       civil service census
plus the future status of
the CAA, the
reorganization of public
enterprises and their
relationship with the
Government
4. Public sector cross  To collect and analyze  Completed          None
debt study.          cross-debt data, make
recommendations for the
settlement of arrears,
define a financial tranfer
policy between the State
and the public agencies.
5. Study on the                              Cancelled
feasibility of
investments
6. Study on the legal                         Suspended in 1993
and institutional
framework of PE
7. Study on internal                          Suspended in 1993
and external trade in
Chad



Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                         Appraisal Estimate (US$M)
Local          Foreign           Total
Costs           Costs
1. Technical Assistance Fund                   0.1             4.0              4.1
(a) 16 diagnostic studies                                      1.4             1.4
(b) feasibility studies                                       0.4              0.4
(c) fiscal study                                              0.6              0.6
(d) economic and legal coll.                                  0.1              0.1
(e) equipment                                                 0.2              0.2
(f) public sector study                                       0.2              0.2
(g) official gazette                          0.1             0.1              0.2
(h) unallocated                                                1.0             1.0
2. Training                                    0.0             0.9              0.9
(a) short-term in-country                                     0.1             0.1
(b) short-term abroad                                         0.2             0.2
(c) long-term abroad                                          0.6             0.6
3. Sample Survey                               0.6              2.5             3.1
(a) tender docs. & supervision                                0.1             0.1
(b) sample surv. - Swiss Contr.              0.6              2.4             3.0
4. Ministry Buildings                          1.2             4.0              5.2
(a) civil works                              1.2              2.9             4.1
(b) furniture                                                 0.3             0.3
(c) equipment                                                 0.4             0.4
(d) design fees                                               0.4             0.4
5. Project Management                          0.1             0.0              0.1
Base Costs                                2.0             11.4             13.4
Contingencies                             0.6              2.0              2.6
Total Project Costs                    2.61            13.4             16.0
of which Swiss contribution                0.6              2.4              3.0
Note: Estimated costs exclude taxes and duties.



Table 8A: Project Costs
(SDRs million)
Activities                           1988         March 1993      June 1994       May 1995    Disbursements as of 9/30/96
Allocation    Amendment    Amendment    Reallocation          SDRs million    US$ million
Part A - Ministry Buildings                4.08            0.10           0.10            0.08             0.08         0.12
(1) Civil works, furniture,                3.76            0.00           0.00            0.00             0.00         0.00
computers & other mat.
(2) Consultants' services - 4A             0.32            0.10            0.10           0.08             0.08         0,12
Part B - Training                          0.71            1.15            1.15           0.22             0.26         0.38
(1) Civil works, furniture,                0.09            1.00            1.00           0.11             0.15          0.22
computers, other mat., training
& cons. serv. - B1(l)
(2) Training for B(2), B(3)                0.62            0.15            0.15           0.11             0.11          0.16
Part C - Population Census                 2.61            3.75            3.75           3.74             3.65          5.31
(1) Census inputs - C                                      1.00            1.00           0.88             0 77          1.12
(2) Consultants' services - 4C                             0.25            0.25           0.36             0.53          0.77
(3) Swiss contribution                     2.50            2.50            2.50           2.50             2.35          3.42
Part D - Preparation & implem.             5.10            7.50            7.50            8.46            8.43         12.26
of other actions to upgrade
econ. & fin. mngt.
(I) Civ. wks., furnit., computers,         3.01            5.01            5.01            8.17            8.14         11.84
other mat. & cons. serv. - SA
(2) Operating costs - 5B                   0.10            0.50            0.50           0.29             0.29          0 42
(3) Unallocated                            1.99            1.99            1.99            0.00            0.00          0.00
TOTAL                                      12.5            12.5            12.5            12.5            12.4          18.1
of which Swiss contribution              2.51            2.51            2.51           2.51             2.41          3.4
Notes:
4A - Consultants' services for building of ministries.
B I - Rehabilitation of ENAM's main building;
- Design and implementation of short-term training programs in economic and financial management for civil servants
and acquisition of teaching material and equipment thereof.
B2 - Scholarships for about 25 civil servants of departments or agencies responsible for economic and firancial management
for short-term training abroad in economic and financial management.
B3 - Granting of about 8 scholarships for long-term higher level training abroad in public finance, quantitative economics,
economic planning and public administration.
C - Population census inputs (initially sample population survey).
4C - Consultants' services for population census.
5A - Civil works, furniture, computers, other materials and consultants' services.
5B - Operating costs.



Table 8B: Project Financing
Item        Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest Estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Costs    Costs               Costs    Costs
IBRD/IDA                   2.4      10.4      12.8      2.7       11.8     14.5
Swiss Government           0.6       2.4       3.0      0.7       2.7       3.4
Chadian Government         0.2       0.0       0.2      0.2       0.0       0.2
TOTAL               3.2      12.8      16.0       3.6      14.5      18.1



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT APPLICABLE



Table 10
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present    Original         Revised             Description                    Comments
Type      Status    Fulfillment  Fulfillment           of covenant
Date         Date
Credit         3.01        9         C        continuous              Borrower's commitment
to the objectives of the
project
Credit         3.02        5          C       continuous              Borrower's agreement
with provisions for consultant
and procurement services
Credit         3.03        5         CD                               Borrower agrees to establish a
Higher Committee to administer
the execution of the project
Credit       3.04 (a)      10        CD     May 15, 1988              Submit selection criteria for
candidates for long term
training abroad
Credit       3.04 (b)      5         CD     June 30, 1988             Select Secretary of HC
Credit       3.04 (c)      10        C        continuous              assign trained staff with
departments responsible for
economic and financial mngt.
for at least four years
Credit        3.05(a)      10        CD     May 15, 1988              employ architectural advisor
Credit       3.05 (b)      10        NC        Prior to               employ engineering advisors to
construction             supervise civil works
Credit         3.06        10        CD      May 15, 1988             submit ENAM training program
for execution of Part B (1)
Credit         3.07        10        NC      May 15, 1988             submit execution plan for
Part B (2)
Credit         3.08        10        C        continuous              submit for approval detailed
plan for any additional action
under Part D



Table 10
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant  Present    Original         Revised            Description                    Comments
Type     Status    Fulfillment  Fulfillment          of covenant
Date        Date
Credit       3.09 (a)     10        CD     May 15, 1988             recruit team and assistance to
prepare terms of reference and
bidding docunents for Part C
CD     June 30, 1988            terms of reference and bidding
documents for Part C
Credit       3.09 (b)     13        C                               train 10 high-level staff to
participate in Part C
Credit       3.09 (c)     10        C                               survey supervision with team
members referred to under (a)
Credit       4.01 (a)     1         C        continuous             maintain records and accounts
Credit       4.01 (b)     I         CP       continuous             have annual audits submitted 6
months after end of FY, and
submit additional information
at request of IDA
Credit       4.01 (c)     I         CP       continuous             maintain records and accounts
of expenditures. and retain at
least one year after F Y audit
Covenant tvpes:                                                                                    Present status:
I =accounts/audits                                                                     C=covenant complied with
2=financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries                          CD=complied with after delay
3=flow and utilization of project funds                                                CP=complied with partially
4=counterpart funding                                                                  NC=not complied with
5=management aspects of the project or executing agency
6=environmental covenants
7=involuntary resettlement
8=indigenous people
9=monitoring, review and reporting
1 0=project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
1 1=sector or cross-sector budgetary or other resource allocation
12=sector or cross-sector policy/regulatory/institutional action
1 3=other



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.
N/A
2.
N/A
3.
N/A



Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle       Planned                 Revised               Actual
Weeks       US$        Weeks        US$      Weeks    US$
Preparation to             4         N/A         N/A         N/A       5.37     8,042
appraisal
Appraisal                  4         N/A         N/A         N/A       10.47    17,293
Negotiations through     N/A         N/A         N/A         N/A       16.97    27,138
Board approval
Supervision              N/A         N/A         N/A         N/A      254.75   558.309
Completion                10.5      10,500       10.5       10,500      15      15,000
TOTAL                     18.5      10.500       10.5       10,500    302.56  625,782



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of Project   Month/year      No. of      No. of days     Specialties    Implementation    Development        Type of
Cycle        _                persons       in field                         Status        (effectiveness)    Problem
Up to Appraisal        N/A           N/A           N/A             N/A              N/A              N/A             N/A
Appraisal 4            N/A           N/A           N/A             N/A              N/A              N/A             N/A
Board
Supervision            8/88            1            14             N/A               2                 2             N/A
Supervision            2/89            I            10             N/A               3                 2              M
Supervision            9/89           2              8             N/A               3                 2             N/A
Supervision           3-4/90          4             19            E, PIS             2                 2              M
Supervision           9/90a           2             15             PIS              N/A              N/A             N/A
Supervision          10-11/90         2             10           CO.OA               4                 4              0
Supervision            7/91                                        N/A               4                 3             N/A
Supervision          8-9/92'           1            13             PIS              N/A              N/A             N/A
Supervision          9-10/92                         7             FA               N/A              N/A             N/A
Supervision          10- 11/92         1            12             OA                3                 3             N/A
Supervision            6/93            1            13             OA                3                 3             N/A
Supervision           11/93            1             9             PIS              N/A              N/A             N/A
Supervision           11/93           3             10          OA,C O,C             2                 3              M
Supervision           2-3/94           1            14             N/A              N/A              N/A             N/A
Supervision            4/94           3             15            CO,E               2                 3             N/A
Supervision           5/94a            1             7             PIS              N/A              N/A             N/A
Supervision           5-6/94           1             9             CO                S                 S             N/A
Supervision            7/94            1            12             CO               N/A              N/A             N/A
Supervision           8/94C           I             11             S/D              N/A              N/A             N/A
Supervision           10/94c           1            13             S/D              N/A              N/A             N/A
Supervision           11/94           3             16          CO,cPIS             N/A              N/A             N/A
Supervision           1-2/95          7             2]        C.CO,PIS,OA            S                 S             N/A
Indicates mission for public enterprise component of project (no 590 produced)
Indicates mission for accounting purposes (no 590 produced)
Indicates mission for statistics and census (no 590 produced).



TYPES OF PROBLEMS
C   = Consultant                                                             F   =   Financing
CO  = Country Officer                                                        S   =   Studies
D   = Doctor                                                                 M   =   Management
DC    Division Chief                                                         0   =   Overall
DO  = Disbursement Officer                                                   TA  =   Technical Assistance
E   = Economist
ENG = Engineer
FA  = Financial Analyst                                                      PERFORMANCE RATINGS
OA  = Operations Assistant                                                   I   =   No problems or Minor Problems
00  = Operations Officer                                                     2   =   Moderate Problems
PHS = Public Health Specialist                                               3   =   Major Problems; Solution in View
PIS - Project Implementation Specialist                                      4   =   Major Problems: No Solution in View
HS  =   Highly Satisfactory
S/D  = Statistician/Demographer                                              S   =   Satisfactory






Appendix A
Mission's Aide-Memoire






Washington le 31 decembre 1996
Mission de la Banque
du 3 au 21 decembre 1996
Projet de Gestion Economique et Financiere
(GEF)
Credit IDA 1872
Rapport d'achevement
Aide-memoire
1.    Mr. Pierre Nadji, economiste de la Banque Mondiale, a participe a la mission IDA
du 3 au 21 decembre 1996, dans le cadre de la preparation du rapport d'achevement du
credit 1872 ou projet GEF. La mission remercie et f6licite la partie tchadienne pour la
qualite d'un premier projet de rapport d'achevement soumis par Mr. Charles Donang
Directeur du Projet GEF. Dans un souci de cooperation et d'appui aux Autorites, la
mission a emis un certain nombre de commentaires joints en annexe. La mission
remercie vivement les Autorites pour la collaboration, les conseil et la disponibilite de ses
agents, qui ont permis de proceder a de nombreuses entrevues avec les principaux
beneficiaires du projet: le Ministere des Finances et de l'Informatique (Directions du
Tresor, du Budget, des Impots et des Taxes, de la Dette et de l'Investissement, des
Douanes, et le Bureau de la Fiscalite Petroliere), le Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation
(Directions de la Statistique, et de la Programmation de l'Aide Exterieure, le Bureau
Central du Recensement), le Secretariat General du Gouvemement, la Direction des
Marches Publics, l'ATETIP.
2.    L' accord de credit No. 1872/CD a ete signe le 27 avril 1988. L'accord preconise
le financement du projet par l'IDA, la Cooperation Suisse, et le Gouvemement Tchadien.
Le credit fut mis en vigueur le premier fevrier 1989. Cet accord a et amende une
premiere fois le 5 mars 1993, une seconde fois en juin 1994, et une troisieme fois le 11
mai 1995.  L'execution du projet a dure huit ans. Le credit devait etre initialement
cl6ture le 30 juin 1994, mais suite aux amendements il a ete proroge jusqu'au 30 juin
1996. Au cours de cette p6riode les objectifs et composantes du projet ont ete reevalu6s
et remanies plusieurs fois, tout en restant toutefois dans le cadre de l'objectif principal.
3.    L'objectif principal du projet etait l'amelioration et le renforcement des capacites
de gestion economique et financiere de l'Etat. Initalement le projet comprenait quatre
volets:
A) Batiments - la constrution de deux batiments pour les Ministeres du Plan et de
la Cooperation, et des Finances et de l'Informatique, la r6habilitation de l'ENAM,
l'acquisition de fournitures et d'equipement ainsi que des vehicules
B) Formation de courte et de longue durde
C) Une enquete demographique
1



D) Des etudes diverses (entreprises publiques, finance, economie, juridique,
administration publique...)
4.    La revue de mi-parcours d'avril 1990 recommanda un recentrage du projet qui
aboutit A un amendement de I'accord de credit le 5 mars 1993. Apres une analyse
approfondie le Gouvernement decida de reaffecter les fonds alloues au volet
"construction de batiments" A d'autres activites jugees prioritaires:
(i) le recensement de la population
(ii) la formation
(iii) la reforme des entreprises publiques
(iv) autres activites (reforme de la fonction publique, douanes, equipement,
vehicules, rehabilitation de batiments ....)
5.    Malgre les progres realises apres 1993, 1'ex6cution et les decaissements
progresserent A un rythme beaucoup trop lent. Afin d'aider le Gouvernement a recentrer
et  definir  les  priorites  de  ses  besoins,  un   atelier  P.P.O./ZOPP   de
coordination/planification des activites au sein du Minist&re des Finances et de
l'Informatique fut organise a N'Djamena du 6 au 10 octobre 1993. Cette reflection
abouti eventuellement A l'amendement de credit de 1994 qui etabli un programme
d'action pour la periode juin 1994 A juin 1996 axe sur les activites suivantes:
(i) la collecte des taxes petrolieres;
(ii) la creation d'une cellule de Suivi et de Coordination au Ministere du Plan;
(iii) un appui A la Direction Nationale des Marches Publics;
(iv) un appui A la definition d'un cadre macroeconomique A moyen terme;
(v) la construction de bureau de douanes A N'Gueli et en provirn_;
(vi) un renforcement de I'Administration des Douanes;
(vii) un recensement du personnel de la Fonction Publique;
(viii) l'informatisation du Ministere des Finances
(ix) 1'extension des activites en cours (programme de desengagement,
recensement de la population, indice des prix, gestion du GEF).
Le tout pour un montant total de US$ 8 millions. Afin d'achever le plan d'action, le
projet ben6ficia d'une premiere extension de juin 1994 A juin 1995, et d'une seconde de
juin 1995 a juin 1996. Au 30 juin 1996, 1'ensemble des fonds du projet etaient debourses.
6.    Au terme de l'execution du projet les actions accomplies de mani&re satisfaisante
incluent:
1) Pour la partie initiale du projet:
(i) la remise en etat du batiment principal de l'ENAM et l'acquisition de materiel
didactique;
(ii) formation - programme de courte duree en gestion economique et financiere:
50 controleurs du Tresor et des Imp6ts formes A l'ENAM;
(iii) recensement general de la population et de l'habitat;
(iv) la constitution et la gestion d'une base de donnees economique et juridique;
2



(v) etude de 1'endettement croise;
(vi) appui logistique aux ministeres.
2) le plan d'action 1994-1996:
(i) la mise en place de la Cellule de Coordination et de Suivi des Projets;
(ii) la creation d'une cellule de Suivi et de Coordination au Ministere du Plan;
(iii) un appui a la Direction Nationale des Marches Publics;
(iv) la construction de bureau de douanes a N'Gu6li et en province;
(v) un renforcement de l'Administration des Douanes;
(vi) l'informatisation du Ministere des Finances;
(vii) publication de l'indice des prix;
(viii) gestion du GEF.
Les actions annulees:
1) Actions initiales:
(i) Construction des ministeres du Plan et des Finances;
(ii) Formation de longue duree a 1'etranger de huit cadres;
(iii) Etude de faisabilite des investissements
(iv) etude du systeme fiscal;
(v) etude du cadre juridique et institutionnel des entreprises publiques
(vi) etude du regime du commerce interieur et exterieur au Tchad
Les actions partiellement achevees ou n'ayant pas donne entiere satisfaction:
1) Actions initiales:
(i) formation de courte duree a l'etranger: 20 fonctionnaires sur 25
(ii) etudes diagnostiques de 16 entreprises publiques: 9 sur 16;
2) le plan d'action 1994-1996:
(i) Appui a la definition d'un cadre macro-economique
(ii) Programme de desengagement
(iii) recensement de la fonction publique
7.    Apres avoir consulter les differents beneficiaires du projet et visiter de nombreux
services de l'administration, la mission a constate un certain nombre de faits qui seront
inclus et analyses au sein du rapport d'evaluation qui comprendra les parties brievement
elaborees ci-dessous.  Cette aide-memoire reflete essentiellement les informations
collectees au cours des entrevues avec les beneficiaires ainsi que les conclusions des aide-
memoires des missions de supervision des projets. Ces dernieres seront completees au
siege de Washington apres avoir consulter l'ensemble du personnel de l'IDA ayant
participe a la preparation et a l'execution du projet
3



Execution du projet - Facteurs principaux
8.    Malgre l'aboutissement de la plupart des actions du GEF, 1'execution du projet
s'est faite a un rythme tres irregulier, sauf pour la periode 1994-1996 dans laquelle se
concentre la majorite des decaissements. La mission a distingue trois types de facteurs
explicant 1'evolution du projet: les facteurs hors du contr6le du Gouvernement
(changements dans 1'environnement international, desastre naturels, performance de
l'IDA, des cofinanciers, contracteurs et consultants, et incidents politico-militaires); les
facteurs sujets au contr6le du Gouvernement, et les facteurs dependant de l'agence
d'execution.
Facteurs externes
9.     Sur 1'ensemble de la periode le pays a connu un coup d'Etat en 1990, plusieurs
changements de gouvernement (dont 6 ministres du Plan), la devaluation du Franc CFA
en 1994, et des elections presidentielles en 1996. L'ensemble de ces 6venements ont
contribue a des ruptures dans les efforts et dans la continuite des politiques du
Gouvemement, notamment au cours de la periode 1989-1993. Ces evenements ont ete un
facteur expliquant pourquoi il a fallu plus de trois ans pour restructurer le projet. Ce delai
apparait etre egalement un des elements ayant abouti a I'abandon de la construction des
Ministeres du Plan et des Finances. Par contre, la devaluation de 1994 a permis au pays
de lancer un programme d'ajustement structurel justifiant la continuation du projet ainsi
que sa restructuration.  Le programme a egalement te  l'origine d'une certaine
dynamique contribuant a une acceleration dans 1'execution du projet.
10.   La performance de l'IDA - Des le depart le projet s'est trouve confronte a des
problemes d'ex6cution. Vu l'ampleur du champs d'action du GEF, sa preparation n'a pas
su identifier toutes les etapes d'execution. La raison principale semble resider dans le
manque de clarte des objectifs, notamment concernant la formation et les 6tudes diverses.
Ce manque de clarte au depart a entrainm d'importants delais de transition chaque fois que
le GEF a change de charge de projet: 6 fois en 6 ans. A chaque changement, le projet a
e  reevalue, et une restructuration envisagee. Ces facteurs ne faciliterent pas les efforts
entrepris par la partie tchadienne pour relancer le projet. Des efforts significatifs ont
toutefois ete entrepris pour remedier a ces problmes. Ils se sont materialises avec
l'atelier ZOPP tenu en fin 1993 qui aboutit au plan d'action 1994-1996. Une meilleure
preparation du projet aurait pu eviter de nombreux problemes, mais d'un autre cote
r6alisant l'importance de renforcer les capacites de gestion de l'Etat, l'IDA a su en
coordination avec les Autorites restructurer un projet qui etait menace de suspension.
11.   Facteurs sujets au contr6le du Gouvernement - Le gouvemement a un role
essentiel dans la preparation du projet ainsi que son execution notamment au niveau de
I'e1aboration de sa politique macroeconomique, de sa motivation, de la nomination de ses
agents a des postes cles, de sa contribution financiere par l'intermediaire des fonds de
contrepartie, ainsi que de 1'etablissement des procedures administratives. Le projet GEF
devait appuyer 1'execution du programme de reforme.  L'annulation du credit de
4



rehabilitation financiere en 1992 a contribu6 aux delais d'execution du projet.  Le
manque de capacites des Autorites A definir clairement leurs besoins dans le cadre d'une
strategie clairement d6finie avec des objectifs precis bases sur un calendrier bien etabli
etait un obstacle A une execution fluide du projet. Des retards d'execution etaient
egalement occasionnes par le non-respect de certaines procedures de l'IDA, les delais
dans l'achevement des audits, les delais dans les paiements des fonds de contrepartie.
Ces derniers etaient en partie dtts aux faiblesses institutionelles de l'Administration. Par
contre la partie tchadienne a joue un r6le ddterminant dans la restructuration du credit en
1994, refletant une prise de conscience du Gouvernement quant a l'importance du projet
GEF, et A l'identification du plan d'action execute en 1994-1996. Le renforcement de la
structure de comites a ete un autre el6ment determinant. De plus une dynamique s'est
cree avec le programme d'ajustement structurel.  Par contre certains blocages ont
subsiste dans le procedures administratives du pays: un systeme de contr6le et de visas
beaucoup  trop  lourd  (par  exemple  pour  les  passations  de  marche),  la
conipartimentalisation des differents services, etc.
Facteurs dependants de l'agence d'execution
12.   Le GEF a connu deux directeurs de projet: le premier de 1987 a 1992, et le second
de 1992 A 1996. Le GEF a accompli beaucoup plus d'actions lors du mandat du second
directeur. Mais l'evaluation de la gestion du projet doit tenir compte de l'ensemble des
elements mentionnes ci-dessus. Les deux periodes sont differentes. ll apparait que dans
la premiere periode I'agence d'execution etait essentiellement constitue d'une seule
personne. Vu le manque de clart6 des objectifs et du calendrier A entreprendre, les
nombreux changements dans l'Administration et l'IDA, les conditions de gestion etaient
loin d'etre optimales. D'apres les Aide-memoires des missions de supervision de l'IDA,
un changement de directeur a ete recommande. L'execution du projet a commence a se
debloquer avec le nouveau directeur qui a fait preuve d'efficacite en contribuant a
l'execution du plan d'action. Il faut neanmoins noter que la situation a change en 1994
avec la creation par decret de la Cellule de Suivi des Projets et de l'Ajustement. La
cellule de suivi a grandement facilite le suivi de l'ex6cution permettant au coordonateur
de prendre des initiatives en cas de blocage qui etait parfois en dehors du champs d'action
d'un directeur de projet, notamment celles concemant les procedures et reglements
administratifs et juridiques.
Prochaines etapes
13.   L'ensemble des points brievement developpes ci-dessus seront analyses et
approfondis au cours du mois prochain tout en tenant compte des points de vue des
differents agents de 1'IDA ayant participes au GEF. En plus d'une evaluation des
objectifs, d'une analyse de l'execution, le rapport abordera les points suivants: la
durabilite des effets du projet, la performance de l'IDA, la performance de la partie
tchadienne, I'evaluation des resultats, les operations futures, et les lecons pour l'avenir. Il
comprendra egalement la version finale du rapport d'achevement des Autorites
tchadiennes.
5



14.   . Le rapport d'achevement sera envoye aux Autorites tchadiennes au plus tard le
12 f6vrier 1997 pour commentaires, avec copie a la Cooperation Suisse.  Afin de
finaliser le rapport le 24 fevrier 1997, la date limite pour la reception des commentaires
est fixee au 21 fevrier 1997. La distribution du rapport au sein des instances de l'IDA est
prevue pour le 24 fevrier, et la date d'impression pour le 28 fevrier, 1997.
15.    Concemant la cl6ture du credit la mission tient a attirer l'attention du
Gouvernement sur les points suivants, notamment ceux indiques dans le dernier rapport
d'audit du projet:
- le besoin pour les membres du Haut Comite d'etablir un proces-verbal a la cloture
definitive indiquant le transfert des biens a la Cellule d'Appui a la Gestion des Projets et
a l'Ajustement qui prend la releve du projet GEF;
- l'inventaire physique des immobilisations achetees dans le cadre du contrat COTECNA
n'a pas et diligente par la Direction du projet GEF;
- un risque de non-recouvrement demeure sur les creances COTECNA et AUREDI-
CERDI pour les montants respectifs de FCFA 86 230 222 et 28 620 350, creances
constitutees des avances de demarrage initialement per,ues et pour lesquelles aucune
confirmation ecrite n'a e  faite par ces consultants;
- 1'existence de reliquats sur le compte special et le compte de la Coop6ration Suisse.
6



Appendix B
Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Not completed






Appendix C
Additional Information
1. Chronology of Project
2. Evolution of GEF Structure
3. 1994 Action Plan
4. Equipment financed under GEF
5. Selected Indicators






Economic and Financial Management Project
(Credit 1872-CD)
Chronology
Main Points/Decisions from Supervision Missions
and Key dates
October 1989 - The mission recommended that: (i) project management be
improved and (ii) the census should have its own management unit to coordinate the
activities being financed by eight donors.  After this mission, Bank management
requested that the project be reappraised with the aim of focusing on the MoP and MoF
and redesigning the construction component.
March/April 1990 - Reappraisal mission which proposed that: (i) project
management be streamlined; (ii) the project concentrate on the MoP and MoF instead of
the seven original beneficiaries of the project; and (iii) the long-term scholarship program
for training abroad should be eliminated in favor of a larger local training program. The
debate on the construction site and technology (traditional or modern) for the ministry
buildings continued.
October/November 1990 - Three priority issues were decided with the
Government: improving the budgetary process, strengthening capacity to formulate
economic policies and strategies, and reforming the public enterprise sector.  The
Government did not agree with the Bank's recommendation to focus solely on the MoP
and MoF.
July 1991 - The Government had continued to argue for another building site for
the ministries (Djari site) over the in-town site (specified in the credit agreement); and the
Bank finally agreed. The GOC, in agreement with the Bank's recommendation, reduced
the number of beneficiaries of the project. The Bank continued to express concern about
project management.
October/November 1992 - A new project Director was appointed in May 1992.
He made progress in clearing up numerous matters left by his predecessor. The GOC
requested officially that the funds originally intended for the construction component be
reallocated to higher priority activities. The credit agreement would be amended to this
effect.
March 1993 - First credit amendment - Reallocation of funds.
June 1993 - Given the difficulty the GOC has had in defining a framework within
which this credit could finance credible activities, the mission recommended that the
MoF staff participate in a ZOPP workshop to help the Government better define priorities
for that ministry.



September/October 1993 (Annual Meetings) - The GOC and IDA shared their
concern about the project, its multiple restructurings and its low disbursements. They
agreed to focus efforts on a few priorities: (i) improving petroleum tax collection by
contracting a private firm for two years, (ii) creating a unit in the MoP to facilitate the
implementation of IDA operations, and (iii) providing TA for key services in the MoF.
November 1993 - The mission participated in the stakeholder workshop (ZOPP)
for the MoF which reinforced decisions taken in October 1993. The population census
was completed. The mission recommended not to cancel the operation given the
Government's efforts and the measures recently taken; and asked to prepare an extension
of the closing date.
April 1994 - Preparation of the action plan and restructuring of the project to
support the implementation of the reform program (ERC and IMF Stand-by).
May/June 1994 - The GOC approved the action plan prepared in April 1994.
The government and IDA agreed to: prepare an action plan to strengthen customs
administration. IDA will finance an IMF expert to that effect.
June 1994 - Second credit amendment - Credit extended for one year, with an
option for a second year after review of the first year extension.
November 1994 - Continued progress in implementation. Disbursements during
the previous six months exceeded disbursements during previous five years. The project
was then fully committed both in terms of project identification and of cont-acts under
execution. The mission recommended to start the preparation for a second TA project.
May 1995 - Reallocation of funds
June 1995 - Third credit amendment - credit extended until June 1996.



Evolution of the GEF Structure
11 minus I                 III                          111 minus I                  IV                          IV minus III
Credit Agreement                    SDR M  March 1993 Credit Amendment          SDR M              June 1994 Credit Amendment           SDR M               May 1995 Reallocation of Funds        SDR M
Part A - Ministry Buildings            4.08 Part A - Ministry Buildings             0.1       -3 98 Part A - Ministry Buildings             0 1           0Part A - Ministry Buildings              0.084       -0.016
(I) Civil works, furniture             3.76 (I)Civil works, fumiture,                 0       -376 (l)Civil works, furniture,                 0           0 (I)Civil works, fumiture,                   0            0
computers & other mat                          computers & other mat.                                 computers & other mat                                    computers & other mat
(2) Consultants' serv.                 0 32 (2) Consultants' services               0 1       -0 22 (2) Consultants' services                0 1          0 (2) Consultants' services               0.084       -0.016
Part B - Training                      0.71 Part B - Training                      1 15       0 44 Part B - Training                        1 15          0Part B - Training                        0 218       -0 932
(I)Civil works, furniture              009 (I)Civil works, furniture,                 1       091 ())Civil works, furniture,                   I          0 (I)Civil works, furniture,              0113        -0.887
computers & other mat,                         computers, other mat , training                         computers. other mat , training                          computers, other mat., training
& training                                     & cons serv. for B( I)                                  & cons. serv. for 13(l )                                 & cons serv for B( I )
(2) Training for parts B               0 62 (2) Training for B(2). B(3)            0 15       -0 47 (2) Training for B(2), B(3)             0 15          0 (2) Training for B(2), B(3)             0 105       -0.045
(2) & B(3)
Part C - Sample Population Survey      0 11 Part C - Population Census             1.25        1 14 Part C - Population Census              1 25          0Part C - Population Census               1237        -0.013
(I) Census inputs                         I          I (I) Census inputs                          I           0(II Census inputs                        0 877      -0 123
(2) Consultants' services             0 25        0 25 (2) Consultants' services               0 25           0 (2) Consultants' services                0 36         0 11
Part D - Preparation and                5 I Part D - Preparation and                7 5         2 4 Part D - Preparation and                 7 5          0Part D - Preparation and                 8 461        0 961
implementattion of other actions            implementattion of other actions                       implementattion of other actions                         implementattion of other actions
to upgrade econ & fin mngt                  to upgrade econ & fin mngt                             to upgrade econ & fin mngt                                to upgrade econ. & fin mngt
(I ) Civ A . fumit, computers, other   3.01 (I ) Civ w , fumit . computers, other  5 01          2 (1) Cixs-   , furnit, computers. other   5 01           0 (I ) Civ ix . fumit., computers, other  8 171       3 161
mat & consultants' services                 mat & consultants' scriices                            mat & consultants' services - 5A                          mat & consultants' services  5A
(2) Operating costs                     0 1 (21 Operating costs                     0.5         0 4 (2) Operating costs - 5B                 0 5          0 (2) Operating costs - 5B                 0 29        -0 21
(3) Unallocated                        1 99 (3) Unallocated                        1 99          0 (3) Unallocated                          I 99           0 (3) Unallocated                            0        -l 99
'TOTAL - IDA allocation                  10 TOTAL - IDA allocation                   10            I TOTAL - IDA allocation                   10           0 TOTAL - IDA allocation                    10



MAY 1994
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1872-CD)
Action Plan
ACTIVITY                         STATUS                                NEXT STEPS               EST. COST]  TIMING
1. Petroleum     The government and the Bank have now agreed    The government evaluation must be    $2.0 million   2-year
Tax             that a private contractor be hired to collect and  submitted to the Bank, and then a          contract to
Collection      manage petroleum taxes. Bids were issued along   contract negotiated. The Bank has            start July 1,
agreed TORs, and one bid was received. This    still to review the revised TORs.              1994,
has now been opened, and is being evaluated.                                                  ending June
Assuming it proves technically acceptable, it will                                            30, 1996.
be negotiated, but with amended TORs to
include, (i) capacity building, i.e. training of
Chadian staff and making arrangements for
transfer of this activity to the Chadian authorities
after two years; and (ii) higher threshold for
bonus.
2. Unit for       A study financed under the project has now   The terms of reference were agreed in  $600,000  18 month
Project        defined a Cellule de Suivi' in the Ministry of    the April Bank mission. The                  program,
Implementation   Planning and Cooperation, to improve project  government has to staff the unit and           beginning
at Ministry of   management, audit and evaluation, as well as  select the necessary short-terM                August 1,
Plan           better preparation of the investment budget and  consultants to guide its work.                1994
associated counterpart funding.              govemment has requested the Bank to
suggest names for the lead consultant.
fis will be done on the return of the
mission in accordance with established
Bank guidelines.



2
3. Support for the  The government is now centering all its public  As soon as the Bank approves this  $435,000  15 months
Public         procurement activities in this department. It  sub-component,tenders will be called            of activity,
Procurement    needs general training, upgrading of facilities,  and short-term consultants (or a firm)       from July
Unit           and an urgent technical advice on the         selected by government. This                     1, 1994
renegotiation of CFAF-denominated pre-       component is ready for
devaluation contracts with foreign contractors.  implementation.
This component was designed by the Chadians
with AFSDR's procurement advisor in February
1994. Terms of reference and bid documents are
_________________   ready.
Action Plan
ACTIVITY                         STATUS                    l           NEXT STEPS              J_EST. COST       TIMING
4. Support for the  govermnent has requested assistance to the  The government welcomes this       $600,000       12 months of
Medium Term   formulation of its medium term program. This    concept of assistance, and is                    activity
Policy         component would consist periodic advisers to  identifying the Chadian team. The                 beginning
Framework      guide and monitor the work of a government    Bank has agreed to identify a list of             August l,
team in the macro framework, private sector  potential candidates to provide the                1994
development, energy policy, agricultural policy,    necessary short term assistance in
public enterprise performance, and privatization.   accordance with established Bank
Assistance would also be given in the        guidelines.
organization of the national committee's work
program and monitoring of program
implemnentation.
5. Construction    This component was agreed in principle a long  Receipt and evaluation of bids and  (a)$ 1.25  Construction
of Customs     time ago, and the tender specifications have now    approval by the Bank to proceed with  mn    could be
Offices at     been drawn up. The Bank has informed the      contracts with the successful bidder.             completed by
(a) N'Gueli    govermnent that it may issue the tender offer in    Construction could start in June, but   (b)$925,000    end-year, and
and            advance of the extension of the GEF, to speed up   progress will depend on the rains            all eqpt in
(b) in the     construction before the rainy season. Tis is  (June-August).                                    place by June
l'ovinces      being done now, with bids expected to be back                                                   1995.
by thc end of Mdy



3
6. Strengthening    The Customs administration suffers from a    The government needs to remove the   $400,000      IMF advisor
the Customs     number of difficulties (i.e. institutional, physical,   military personnel from customs and       in place
Administration   organizational and skill-related). Provided   send a fornal request to the IMF for               August 1,
government agree to remove the present military  assistance. Once the IMF adviser is              1994. Bank
personnel from the Customs, the Bank will fund    in place, he/she will define the exact          assistance
this component which is being designed in     timing and terms of reference for the               would begin
collaboration with the IMF. The IMF wil       Bank's assistance, in the identified                2 months
provide a long term Customs adviser. In support  areas.                                          later (Oct
of this; the Bank would provide assistance in                                                     94), and be
training of trainers (including for UDEAC                                                         completed in
reforms), valuation, and internal audit, as well as                                               12 months.
some equipment.



4
Action Plan
ACTIViTY                        STATUS                                NEXI STIEPS              EST. COSI j  TIMING
7. Civil Service   The governmenr is facing two main issues. It   No progress has been made by the  $500,000    Consultants
Census             needs to reconcile the records of the Ministry   govermment in preparing termS of            could be in
of the Public Service and of the Ministry of  reference for these studies since the    (not a clear   place by
Finance, with a view to determining the    last mission. Therefore, AFTCB will  estimate, but  December I,
establishment in place, and correct payment  be requested to send a staff member    a reasonable  1994, with a
procedures. Second, it has a strong morale    to visit Chad for 10 days before  provision)    6-month work
problem deriving not only from non-payment    September 1, to draw up TORs and               program.
of salaries, but also from very unclear lines of   agree on a short-list of consultants.
authority, promotion procedures etc. Two
separate but related studies are being requested
by the government in these two areas, to help
improve performance of the civil service and
eliminate any payment errors.
8. Cormputerization  There are 15 French cooperants working at the  A detailed plan for the        $350,000     If received and
in the Ministry   Ministry of Finance to strengthen the MoF's    computerization has been developed            approved by
of Finance        capability in a range of areas. The         and will be submitted to the Bank for            December I,
government has requested the Bank to       its consideration. The Bank has made              1994, it could
reinforce this assistance with assistance to  this dependent on the resolution of            proceed
computerize the Ministry's operations, with a    certain organizational issues, which       rapidly. If
PC-based system in the Treasury and payroll    will be the subject of other                 not, the
systems.                                   discussions.                                     component
would be
cancelled.



9. Extensions of   There are a number of ongoing activities,   A request would need to be received    (a)$160,000  In each case,
ongoing          where sub-task managers have identified the  from the government for these      (b)$ 87,000   this would
activities       need for additional work if the key aims of the  extensions, but all the technical  (c)$ 5,000   represent
original progrms are to be met. These      preparations are in hand.           (d)$300,000   continuation of
include: (a) Ffniher support in the public                                                   ongoing
enterprise unit; (b) Completion and tabulation                                 totaling:     activities
of the population census; (c) Extension of the                                               through June
retail price index survey; (d) Extension of the                                $552,000      30, 1995.
costs of the GEF project unit to the end of the
extended life of the proje.                                                   



6
SUMMARY OF ACTION PLAN ExPENDlURES
New Sub-Projed or Adivity                        USS000s
I.   Petroleum Tax Collection                       2000
2.   Short-term consultants for the
Project Implementation Unit                   600
3.   Short-term consultants or firms for the
Procurement Unit Training                     435
4.   Short-term consultants for the
Support for Medium Term Policy Framework      600
5.   Construction of Customs Offices
(a) N'Geli                                     1250
(b) Provinces                                  925
6.   Short-term consultants for
Strengthening Customs Administration         400
7.   Civil Service Census                            500
B.   Computerization in the Ministry of Finance      350
9.   Extension of Ongoing Activities                 552
Sub-Total                 7612
Reserve                    388
TOTAL                     8000



Equipment Financed under GEF by Beneficiaries as of 12/31/95 (US$ thousand)
Office     Computer    Transport        Office       Total
Equipment   Equipment   Equipment    Furniture
GEF Implementing Agency                                               10            9            32            It        62
Census Bureau                                                         90             6          177            54       327
Chadian Agency of Pub. Works (ATETIP)                                 60           44                          33       138
Ministry of Finance (MoF)                                            162           153          490          554      1,360
MoF                                                                 24                         41                      65
Budget Dpt.                                                         26            13                                   39
Computer Dpt..                                                                    13                                    13
Customs                                                             27            11          339           321       698
Direction Douanes NDH                                                           11           158                     169
Abeche                                                              5                         16           11         31
Bol                                                                4                          13            4         21
Bongor                                                             2                          24            2         28
Kelo                                                                I                         30           31         62
Lerd                                                                3                         27           40         70
Moundou                                                             6                         26           13         45
NGueli                                                                                                    132        132
Pala                                                                2                         17           30         50
Sahr                                                                4                         28           58         90
Fiscal Dpt.                                                         82            55           91           190       418
Abeche                                                              1                         16            2         19
Bol (inc]. Treasury)                                                1                         16            3         19
Bongor (inci Treasury)                                            27                         11             0        38
Kelo (incl. Treasury)                                             47                          10            2         58
Lere (incl. Treasury)                                            0.4                         11            63        74
N'Djamena                                                                       55                          6        61
Moundou                                                            4                                       86        90
Pala                                                             0.4                         11            26        37
Sahr                                                                2                         16            3         20
Treasury                                                             4            60           20            43        127
Abeche                                                           0.01                                       6          6
Moundou                                                            3                                        2         5
N'Djamena                                                                       60                          3        63
Pala                                                             0.4                         10           23         34
Sahr                                                                                          10            9         19
Procurement Unit (PPU)                                                 3             7           27           33         70
Ministry of Commerce (MoCI)                                                         9            10             3        21
State Comptroller's Office (CE)                                                     14           23             0        37
General Secretariat of the Govt. (SGG)                                 2            11           11             2        26
Ntl. School of Adm. and Magistracy (ENAM)                             11                                      47         58
Secretariat of the Divestiture Program                                 7            14           13            13        47
Studies & Training Center for Dvpt. (CEFOD)                            5                                        6        12
Ministry of Plan (MoP)                                                                           15                      15
Support Off. for Proj. Mngt and the Adj. Prog. (CAGPA)                30           37           173            34       274
Total                                     381          302           970          792      2,445
Memo: FCFA/US$, 1995 avg.                                          499I11_ _
Source: Kooh et Mure, en association avec Coopers & Lybrand.



Selected Indicators
(1987-1996)
_____________________________    1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992       1993      1994      1995 1996 est.
Real GDP growth (%)                         -2.5      15.5       5.8       -5.0       8.5       8.0    -15.7       10.2       2.8       6.0
Public finance indicators (% of GDP):
Total revenues                               7.9       8.0       8.9       9.5        8.7       9.0      10.0       6.9       8.3       9.6
Direct taxes                                1.4       1.4       1.9       1.8       2.0       2.5       2.4       2.0        3.2       3.9
Indirect taxes on domestic G & S           5.8       6.3        6.4       7.3       5.0       4.8       5.4       3.3        3.5       4.8
Petroleum taxes                            0.3        1.1       1.3       1.4       0.7       0.7       0.9       0.4        0.4       0.6
Total expenditures                          33.4      27.1      32.6      31.8      21.6       27.4      28.7      27.1      24.1      24.3
Current expenditures                       11.2      10.0      13.1       14.3      14.6      15.0      17.8      14.2      12.0       12.3
Wage bill                                 4.6       4.0        5.4       6.2       5.4       5.8       7.8       5.6       5.6        4.9
Capital expenditures                       22.2      17.1      19.5      17.4       6.9       12.4      10.9      12.9      12.2      12.0
Overall fiscal balance                     -25.5     -19.1      -23.6     -22.3     -12.9     -18.4     -18.7     -20.2    -15.8       -14.8
Annual percentage change:
Total revenues                                        27.2      i6.3       9.6        2.1      -2.5      -7.3       9.7      40.3      32.8
Total expenditures                                     2.1      24.9       0.7      -23.9      19.3    -12.8       49.1       4.3       16.2
of whichcurrentexpenditures                         11.9      36.4      12.9       14.5      -3.6      -1.3      26.4      -1.5      18.7
Sources: Chadian Authorities and World Bank estimates.






IBRD 25339R
The boundri es. colors,
denom-nat,onse nd any
other information shown
on  this map  do  not
-tpty, on the part of
The World  Baon   Groop,
LIBYA             any irdgineist on the legal
status of any  territory,
or on y endorsement
I                                                             *                                 or acceptonce of such
CHAD                           \du
TCHAD
_\                                                                                                                      \
___Main Roads
Routes Primaires
Secondary Roads                        |
Routes Secondaires                    |
Rivers                                I
Rivikres
Prefecture Boundaries
Limites des prefectures
International Boundaries
Frontieres /nternationale
KILOMETERS 0   50   100   150   200   250            I                                     i3(5, C          - U  ! J E.ID    TIBESfr
I  I     '      I     I              /
stILES 0      52        100       S5                           --          - -                                                                                       J 
a                                                ',               J          --,"L'                                     \_
00   150~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
75                                                                                                  B i L T I tF                                      15'~~~~~~~~I 
-iltine
NIGER               |M/o
B9 I-~~               ';        .   Moussoro.J_                              <-~
LAKEj  I                  /
(nod~~~~~~~~~~
> \   :hrA,n,   -o g                            {     a  ;                     i~~~~~~~~~~~~Gor-Beido    ;
NIGERIA                                                                            Bibk_
&M4oassenyo a         .               L     D
/   " l   t 2o     t5.         !   8 *    - -           _            .{3~~~~~ Am-Tim-m\ _ ,
I       ~~,lI2peeffie\e                                   - I
/                   Bangor  6    ,   _                       , 
D     w                          TikamS    /          ~~        Av!          >rHekeik m                                                                      50 
'   ; i l    l         S        t         )~~~~~CH~ -, i                  '.\> f'                                                 I)
J/                                                               * '  t      i       1--      -       --  w_fi  > Koumra  So,r  -
CENTRAL AFRICAN
CAMEROON                                       ,        i    9 Moirol                                                  REPUBLIC
*                                      Boibakoun O                   '
FEBRUARY 1995









IMAGING
Report No.:          1$5J 1
Type:     ICR



