Page  1
                                        March 5, 1993
His Excellency Ibni Oumar Mahamat Saleh
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
B.P. 286
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Excellency,
     Credit No. 1872-CD: Economic and Financial Management Project
     Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Economic and Financial Management 
Project), dated April 27, 1988 (as amended June 15, 1988), between the Republic of 
Chad (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association).  
Further to the discussions held with the representatives of the Borrower, we are 
pleased to inform you that the Association hereby agrees to amend the above-mentioned 
Agreement as provided below.
1.
Section 2.02(c) is amended by renumbering paragraph (c) as paragraph "(c)(i)", 
and inserting a new paragraph (c)(ii) which shall read as follows:
" (ii) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part C of the Project, 
open and 
maintain in CFAF a special deposit account (the Special Account C) 
in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, Special Account 
C shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement."
2.
Schedule 1 is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement 
is amended and restated in its entirety to read as provided in Annex I to this 
Amendment, and (b) a new paragraph 3 is inserted which shall read as follows:
"3.     For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "census inputs" means 
expenditures for the operation of vehicles, field allowances, 
salaries for contract staff, 
and other equipment and services (other than 
consultants' services) approved by the 
Association to carry out Part C of the 
Project.
3.
Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended as follows:
 
(a)
Part C is amended by replacing the words "sample population survey" with 
"comprehensive population census"; and
(b)
Part D(i) is amended by inserting the words "and establishment and 
operation of a secretariat responsible for implementing public enterprise reform".
4.
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 is amended as follows:
 
-
subparagraph -(a) is amended and restated in its entirety as 
follows:
"(a) the term "eligible Categories" means:
(i)
for purposes of the Special Account relating to the Credit, 
Categories 
(2) through (5), other than Category 4(b), set forth 
in the table in 
paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(ii)
for purposes of the Special Account relating to the Swiss 
Contribution, 
Categories (1) and (4)(b), set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule I to this Agreement;' 
and
Page  2
-
subparagraph (c) (ii) is amended by substituting the figure "CFAF 
70,000,000" with 
the figure "CFAF 200,000,000".
 
5.
A new Schedule 5 is added as provided in Annex 2 to this Amendment.
 
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing by countersigning and dating 
the form of confirmation on the two original copies of this letter provided and 
returning one original, as countersigned, to us.  This Amendment shall become 
effective as of receipt by the Association of this letter duly
countersigned by you.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Katherine Marshall
Director
Sahelian Department
Confirmed
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ IBNI OUMAR
Authorized Representative
Date: 17 Mars 1993
Annex I to Amendment Letter
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of 
the Credit and the Swiss Contribution to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                       Amount of
                                       the Swiss
                         Amount of     Contribution
                         the Credit     Allocated
           % of
                         Allocated     (Expressed  
Expenditures
                         (Expressed    in Swiss    
    to be Financed by 
in SDR        Francs
             Assoc-
    Switzer-
Category     
Equivalent) Equivalent)          ciation     land
 
(1)
Census Inputs        1,000,000     4,700,000
100%         100%
       for Part C of
       the Project
(2)
Civil works,         1,000,000     -
100%         -
       furniture,
       training,
       consultants' 
services,
       computers and
       other materials
       for Part B(l) of
       the Project
(3)
Training for            150,000     -
100%         -
       Parts B(2) and
       B(3) of
       the Project
(4)
Consultants'
Page  3
       services for:
       (a)
Part A of        100,000     -
             100%        -
             the Project
       (b)
Part C of        250,000
  300,000      
100%        100%
             the Project
(5)
Part D of the Project
 
      (a)
Civil works,   5,010,000     -
100%
-
             furniture,
             computers,
             other materials
             and consultants'
             services
      (b)
Operating Costs  500,000     -
100%         -
 
(6)
Unallocated
  1,990,000 
  -
 
             TOTAL          10,000,000
5,000,000
 
Annex 2 to Amendment Letter
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account C
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term 'eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (4)(b) set forth 
in the table in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures' means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part C of the Project  and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
250,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account C pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account C shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account C has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account C shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On          the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account C such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account C, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account C at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
Page  4
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other vidence to 
have been made out of the Special 
Account C for eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account C, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account C:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Part C 
of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account C as of the date of 
such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account C: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account C
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no per deposit by the
Association into the Special Account C shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account C will not be required to cover further payments 
for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account C.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
