Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22494
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25070)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$34.9 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
PARASTATAL AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
05/28/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their'
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  .|



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 7, 2001)
Currency Unit = Tanzia Shillings
TSh 1 = US$ 0.001
US$ 1 = TSh 888.25
FISCAL YEAR
July -   June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CSD          Civil Service Department
CSR          Civil Service Reform
CSRP         Civil Service Reform Program
DFID         Depatlment for International Development, UK (formerly Overseas Development Agency)
IDA          Intemational Development Association
LART         Loans and Advances Realization Trust
MOF          Ministry of Finance
NBS          National Bureau of Statistics
NPA          Non-Performing Assets
PE           Public Enterprise
PPSRP        Pamastatal and Public Sector Refonn Project
PPSDP        Privatization and Private Sector Development Project
PSAC         Public Sector Adjustment Credit
PSRC         Parastatal Sector Reform Commission
PSRP         Public Service Reform Project
SNA          Strengthening of National Accounting
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
VAT          Value Added Tax
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   James W. Adams
Sector Manager/Director:    Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Herve Assah



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
PARASTATAL AND PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    I 1
6. Sustainability                                                                        13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       18
9. Partner Comments                                                                       18
10. Additional Information                                                               25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002788                                       Pro 'ect Name: PRIV. PUB. SECT. MGT
Team Leader: Herve Assah                                  TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PRIV. PUB. SECT. MGT                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-25070
Country/Department: TANZANIA                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: DV - Privatization
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/06/1992                              Effective: 07/01/1993         10/20/1993
Appraisal:  01/01/1993                               MTR:                       03/18/1996
Approval:  06/10/1993                              Closing: 06/30/1998          01/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT OF TANZANIA/MIN. OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                           Edward Jaycox
Country Manager:     James W. Adams                            Francis X. Colaco
Sector Manager:      Demba Ba                                  Robert E. Hindle
Team Leader at ICR:   Herve Assah                              Ian Knapp
ICR Primary Author:   Marilyn S. Manalo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Higily Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
When the Parastatal and Public Sector Reform Project (PPSRP) was prepared in the early 1990s,
the Tanzanian economy had been evolving steadily from one of pervasive controls and stagnation
to one that displayed a market and growth orientation. The challenge of attaining appropriate
growth rates remained despite the implementation of economic reforms under the Economic
Recovery Program (launched by the Government in 1986). The contributions the financial burden



of the parastatal sector played in stifling this required growth was acknowledged by the
Government of Tanzania. The parastatal sector grew steadily from a few parastatal companies in
1967 to about 270 commercial and 30 non-commercial enterprises. State management and
control was particularly critical in manufacturing, the largest sub-sector. Public enterprises
dominated the formal economy and, in the industrial sector, accounted for about 67 percent of
employment and 60 percent of value added. These enterprises were inefficient, non-viable,
required subsidies to remain operational, and crowded out private investment. The parastatal
sector's demand for resources and preferential status not only created fiscal problems for the
government but also retarded private sector growth. Reducing the financial burden of the public
sector through downsizing and meeting the requirements for efficient and effective performance
were critically important to the Government.
In responding to the fiscal issues and the underlying need to accelerate the pace of reform, the
Government adopted, in 1991, a two-pronged strategy to stimulate economic growth. The first
was to establish an appropriate environment for the private sector to produce and deliver goods
and services. The second was to limit the role of the public sector in production and strengthen
its capacity to manage the economy, maintain appropriate incentives, and provide infrastructure
and social services more effectively. In support of this strategy, the PPSRP was designed to
provide assistance to meet the following project objectives: (i) institutional strengthening of
appropriate Government organizations and departments in the areas of parastatal and civil service
reforms; (ii) further design, refinement, and implementation of a comprehensive civil service
reform program; and (iii) strengthening of selected features of macroeconomic management.
These objectives and scope of the reform program were realistic, clear, and consistent with the
strategies of the Government and IDA and also received other donors' support. Significant
upstream work (creation of the Loans and Advances Realization Trust (LART) under the LART
Act, 1991; launching of the parastatal reform program, 1992; establishment of PSRC, 1993) were
accomplished prior to and at the preparation stage of the project. Government officials who were
expected to be involved in the implementation of the project actively participated in its
development. Background studies and seminars were conducted to inculcate within Government
the wide ranging benefits of the envisaged reforns. The project was expected to build the
necessary institutional capacity within the Government to enable it to better respond to reform
measures that were to be incorporated under a complementary project, the Public Sector
Adjustment Credit (PSAC). However, the processing of PSAC experienced a setback when
conditions under a prior operation, the Structural Adjustment Credit, still had to be met. Thus,
PPSRP became the main instrument for dialogue between the Bank and the Government on
privatization and civil service reform.
The project as designed was complex. The privatization component, which was fundamentally
restructuring the entire formal economy and cleaning up the State-run financial sector (including
debt collection), should have been supported under a stand-alone project. In like manner, the Civil-
Service Reform Program (CSRP), which sought to dramatically reduce the Civil Service and then
re-shape it into a modern, meritocratic, technically competent civil service was equally a major
task in its own right. The objectives of the project were complex particularly when considering
the country was still in transition from a state-controlled economy to a liberalized, market
- 2 -



economy. Also, each component required a wide range of policy and institutional changes,
consistency in commitment and human capital, a high level of supervision resources and diverse
expertise to manage and execute, specially in the absence of the PSAC.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was consistent with the state of the art for privatizing and reforming the public sector
when it was prepared in 1992.  The project comprised four institutional strengthening
components: (i) Privatization and Public Enterprise Reform; (ii) LART, (iii) Civil Service
Reforn, and (iv) Macroeconomic Management.
The Privatization and Public Enterprise Reform was designed to: (a) strengthen the Parastatal
Sector Reform Commission (PSRC) and facilitate its coordination and implementation of the
privatization program; (b) develop policy and perform tasks in diverse areas including legislation,
divestiture planning, debt settlement, asset valuation, ownership instruments, labor redeployment
and safety net schemes to effect privatization transactions; and (c) prepare and implement action
plans to restructure and upgrade the performance of key retained public enterprises. LART was
to facilitate the liquidation of non-performing assets including valuation, disposal of assets,
financial controls, payment of obligations, and short-term management of going concerns. The
Civil Service Reform component was developed to: (a) support the Civil Service Department
(CSD) and other task forces to refine and implement a civil service strategy; (b) implement time
bound action plans in areas including retrenchment, redeployment, pay reform, personnel
management and control; and (c) support the Planning Commission as the lead organization
(working closely with CSD) to effect ministerial rationalization. Under the Macroeconomic
Management component, support was designed to: (a) build the capacity within the Planning
Commission, Ministry of Finance (MOF), and the Bank of Tanzania in areas covering ministerial
rationalization and budgetary and financial systems, including aid reporting and recording systems;
(b) reform the tax system to incorporate a Value Added Tax (VAT) system; and (c) upgrade the
national accounts and survey methodologies and enhance the capability of the National Bureau of
Statistics (NBS) to produce relevant and complete economic indicators. Support was also
provided to the MOF for project management and coordination.  The Department for
International Development (DFID, UK) co-financed the privatization and civil service
components.
The project components were reasonably expected to contribute to achieving the project
objectives. Attention was given to recognizing the political and administrative difficulties that
would be faced by the implementing agencies and mitigating factors to these risks were
considered and incorporated in the project. Mitigating measures incorporated in the project
design emphasized the provision of an enabling environment where policy would be turned into
action and newly acquired skills would be used and reinforced. To ensure appropriate and timely
- 3 -



processing of the project, implementation plans relied on a simple project framework, frequent
supervision work, and a detailed implementation manual. Lessons from prior operations in the
sector and in the country were also reflected in the project design.
3.4 Revised Components:
The original project components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry was satisfactory. As designed, it was consistent with the
Government's objectives and IDA's country assistance strategy particularly when noting the fiscal
burden the parastatal sector imposed on the Tanzanian economy and the Government's interest in
addressing this problem and other major impediments to sustainable growth (poor economic
management, deteriorating levels of public services, an overstaffed civil service sector). Also, the
project was building on lessons learned and the institutional capacity of already-established
implementing agencies. The risks facing this operation were correctly identified as (i) the
Govern-ment's ability to successfully manage and implement the program; and (ii) the political and
social pressures against the privatization process and civil service reforms. These risks were
addressed and project execution plans called for frequent supervision visits and an implementation
plan that incorporated revisiting organizational structures, defining clear responsibilities, agreeing
on work programs and timetables. The environment to flag implementation issues and determine
early and flexible resolution to problems was built into the project design.
However, in addition to this project being complex given two major undertakings being
incorporated under one project, the inclusion of some important features would have improved
the project design. Examples would be: (i) a comprehensive communications package that (a)
highlighted the goals and benefits of privatization and civil service reform, (b) conveyed the need
for changes particularly at a time the country was still constrained by cultural practices
characteristic of a centrally-controlled economy, and (c) would be intensively carried out primarily
when project execution commenced but also throughout implementation; (ii) measurable
indicators (formal agreement on performance indicators was not an IDA requirement when the
project was prepared); and (iii) a well-defined strategic plan for civil service reforms. These
measures would have further minimized the political and social risks, emphasized the quality and
impact on the fiscal resources of government, increased indigenous and foreign investor interest
and effectiveness of Government support in the privatization process, and, overall, improved the
responsiveness of the project to the underlying objectives.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall project outcome is satisfactory. This assessment is based on the following factors: (i)
satisfactory outcome and achievements under the project's main components, as summarized
- 4 -



below; (ii) Government support to the privatization process and civil service reforms during
project preparation, implementation, and regular operations; (iii) established institutions and
procedures that will take the privatization and civil service reforms through the next development
phase (to be implemented under two separate, IDA-financed projects, Privatization and Private
Sector Development Project (PPSDP) and the Public Service Reform Project (PSRP)); however,
inconsistencies still exist in standards applied and level of support provided in the privatization
process and certain elements remain unaddressed including excessive salaries and tax issues in
implementing agencies; and (iv) the Government's continued support for private sector
development (related measures to be executed under the IDA-funded Programmatic Structural
Adjustment Credit).
(i) Privatization and Public Enterprise Reform.
The objectives of the component were achieved satisfactorily. Over the project implementation
period, the PSRC developed a well-established capability to handle public enterprise divestitures.
The experiences gained in privatizing mostly small and medium sized public enterprises and a few
large enterprises led to a more widespread acceptance of the need for and advantages of
privatization. Following the mid-term review and the completion of the parastatal subsidy study,
discussions with PSRC, MOF and the Ministry of Planning led to the Government's critical
analysis of the economic and financial impact of parastatal support and a re-examination of its
privatization policies. Thereafter, the Government decided to (i) sanction full sales and (ii)
include banks, infrastructure and utilities in its privatization program. This represented a major
shift from Government's initial hesitation about the private sector and its earlier plans supporting
joint-ventures (essentially implying capital increases from investors while the Government
maintained political control) or leases of the least important enterprises to incorporating any
enterprise that was econornically meaningful (or budgetarily significant in terms of subsidies) on
the list for privatization.
A study commissioned by the Government documented that early indications from the
privatization process demonstrate that with privatization: (i) the fiscal burden to the treasury was
reduced through the elimination of direct subsidies to public enterprises and the generation of
revenues from privatization transactions and increased tax returns, (ii) enterprise efficiency,
productivity, and profitability improved enabling some to compete in the global market, and (iii)
indigenous and foreign direct investment in the private sector expanded. On the enterprise level,
more successful privatized enterprises exhibited certain characteristics: (i) they were divested to
multi-national companies with experience in the industry and in operating in a competititive
market environment; and (ii) they had funding available for investment and training. Enterprises
that were experiencing difficulties also shared a number of characteristics, they: (i) were divested
to domestic investors who lacked exposure to international business and resources to fumd
investments and rehabilitation requirements; and (ii) operated following a significant gap when the
government ceased to suport the enterprise and when the new investor took control of the-
enterprise. The privatization process also contributed to decreasing the crowding out of credit
resources to the private sector. As provided in the Indicators Table below, total lending to
parastatals and state-owned enterprises dramatically reduced from about Tanzanian Shillings
(Tsh) 101.2 billion in 1994 to about TSh 9.3 billion in 1999. It was projected to have further
- 5 -



decreased to about Tsh 7.4 billion in 2000. Following successive declines in 1995 and 1996,
claims on the private sector increased by approximately 39 percent, 48 percent, and 26 percent in
1997, 1998, and 1998, respectively. It was projected to grow by 10 percent to reach about Tsh
333.3 billion in 2000.
However, the project's impact could have been greater if the design features listed in Section 3.5
above were incorporated sooner and the Government decided much earlier to proceed with the
privatization of the major utilities and infrastructure enterprises (the decision was made only in
1997). For now, other post-privatization problems still require attention including: (i) insufficient
revenue to cover pre- and post-privatization liabilities of enterprises assumed by the Government,
(ii) distribution of the remaining shares of the Government including the portion of equity
reserved for employees, and (iii) the continued need to upgrade newly privatized enterprises'
managerial, technical and production capacities.
(ii) Loans and Advances Realization Trust (LART)
LART satisfactorily met the project objective of facilitating the reform process of the banking
sector through the liquidation of non-performing assets (NPAs) of state-owned banks. With the
sale of assets, subsidies to some cash strapped parastatals were eliminated and assets were once
again put to productive use.
(iii) Civil Service Reform Program
The satisfactory implementation of the organization and efficiency reviews within government
agencies has led to a redefinition of the role of government and the rationalization of the core
finctions and organizational structure of ministries, independent departments, and regional
secretariats. Central Government has been slowly withdrawing from direct delivery of economic
and social goods and services and transferring these services to partners in local government,
communities, NGOs, and the private sector. A framework has been agreed that reforms the
compensation and personnel management systems and leads to the development of transparent
and equitable salary structure, performance-based evaluation and merit-based recruitment, and a
clear definition of the rights and obligations of civil servants. Implementation of the reforms are
taking place in a gradual manner.
(iv) Macroeconomic Management.
The project objectives under this sub-component were partially met.  Under the first
sub-component, the transition in the Government tax revenue collection system to the VAT was
completed. While the tax revenues, including the domestic sales tax, have been increasing
annually, its growth rate has slowed down from approximately 36 percent in 1994 to about 8
percent in 1998. The growth of the domestic sales tax has also declined from about 44 percent in
1995 to negative one percent in 1997 before recovering in 1998 and growing by 11 percent in
1999 (to about TSh 179.5 billion). Revenue levels reflect annual increases in the VAT; the
contribution of VAT to total revenues has ranged from 11 percent to 17 percent since its
introduction in 1998. The second sub-component, support to the NBS, resulted in the agency's
- 6 -



increased ability to more accurately estimate a key economic indicator, the Gross Domestic
Product. However, the impact of upgrading the technical capacity within the NBS is not expected
to contribute to the ability to estimate other key economic indicators unless the agency is
well-organized, revamped and better-funded.
Indicators Table
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Macroeconomic Indicators
Growth rate - Real GDP (%)                1.2     1.6    3.6      4.5     3.5     4.0     4.8   5.084
Inflation (%)                           24.0    33.5    27.4    21.0    16.1    12.8      7.9   5.894
Exchange rate (Tsh./USD, end of period)  479.9   519.5   558.2   595.6   624.6   681.0   797.3 803.260
Tax Revenue (Tsh. millions)           220,358 299,900 383,752 514,556 566,144 616,467 691,958 805,866 1/
Taxes on domestic sales               70,388  72,643  104,650 141,738  140,542 161,336 179,471  195,918 1/
VAT                                                                 64,475 105,509 110,522  124,477 11
Monetary Survey
Net domestic assets (Tsh. Billions)
Claims on parastatals and other public sector  101.2    84.3    24.8    20.7     8.4     9.3      7.4 1/
Claims on the private sector                   178.9   163.5   116.6   162.3   239.9   302.2   333.3 1/
1/ Projected
Source: Govermment of Tanzania, IMF Proiections
4.2 Outputs by components.
(i) Privatization and Public Enterprise Reform.
Capacity building assistance extended through consultant services, external training and exposure
tours, and in-country sensitizing workshops yielded positive results under the privatization
component. Of the 385 companies originally in the Government's divestiture program, it is
estimated that, when the project closed at end-January 2001, about 248 (approximately 64
percent) had been divested. The divestiture process was implemented under the guidance from
the PSRC Secretariat and with the support from relevant ministries and the PSRC. By sector, this
represents roughly about 43 percent in industry, 29 percent in agriculture, and 28 percent in
services (hotels, transport, banking) and other sectors. Most were small- to medium-sized
enterprises; few were larger enterprises (National Bank of Commerce, Tanzania
Telecommunications Company Ltd., Dar es Salaam Container Terminal, hotel, brewery, cement,
tobacco and sugar companies). The privatization process for other important public enterprises
including the Tanzania Harbors Authority, Dar es Salaam Water and Sanitation Authority,_
Tanzania Railways Corporation, and the Tanzania Electricity Supply Company are continuing.
Divestitures were made through various means. Preliminary estimates are that about 68 percent
were outright sales to local and foreign private investors, 15 percent liquidations and closures, 8
percent leases, and 15 percent by other means. There were over 50 enterprises in varying stages
of the divestiture process, including companies returned to PSRC's portfolio for re-sale. Based on
- 7-



the audit report for the period ending June 2000, proceeds from the divestiture program
amounted to Tsh 29.4 billion.
Other studies commissioned by the Government with funding from the project, including one on
parastatal debt (1998), retrenchment of employees (1998), the regulatory framework (1998), and
privatization approval and operating procedures (1999), served as the basis for defining policy
options and revising PSRC's operating procedures to minimize the cost of the privatization
process to the Treasury.
Performance contracts were prepared (following actions initiated outside this project for some
institutions) for three institutions originally planned for retention in the public sector: Tanzania
Harbour Authority, Tanzania Railway Corporation, and Tanzania Telecommnunications
Corporation Ltd. Measurable achievements were limited in the absence of specific guidelines in
drawing up performance contracts, an earlier indifferent attitude to implementing them, lack of
funding support, and insufficient time to deternine results. Some operational improvements in the
Postal Corporation were realized (following its split from Tanzania Telecommunications
Corporation and the subsequent cut in cross subsidies) when the requirements highlighted in the
performance contracts, particularly relating to management, quality of service, customer
satisfaction, marketing and other commercial practices to remain competitive, were implemented.
It became clear to the Government, however, that even with performance contracts, a substantial
difference in turning around a company is not possible without the required injection of
shareholders' capital contributions to support corporate strategic plans. In the absence of capital
infusion, the Government decided to privatize the utilities and other strategic enterprises shortly
after these contracts were put in place.
A privatization Trust Unit of the PSRC was established to temporarily house shares of enterprises
prior t their sale to local investors. Exposure visits were conducted in Zambia, India, and the UK
to assist the trustees in learning from other's experience and to determine the requirements to
establish a unit trust in Tanzania. The Trust is yet to become fully operational; resources have
been allocated for this purpose under the ongoing, second IDA-financed Financial Institutions
Development Project.
(ii) Loans and Advances Realization Trust
LART's strong management, professional staff, operational autonomy, and the ability to move
collection cases rapidly through a dedicated court, which was funded by the Government, enabled
LART to effectively and satisfactorily carry out its mandate. (The LART Tribunal followed
temporary injunction rules and simplified rules of procedure reducing the hearing time from 1-5
years to an average of three months.) In spite of court actions against it, limited local investment
capacity, and obsolete assets that contributed to debt recovery difficulties, LART launched an
aggressive collection campaign. As a result, at end-January 2001 approximately US$20 million-
(approximately 59 per cent of the value of NPAs transferred to LART) were recovered.
Collections were realized through direct recovery of outstanding liabilities, rescheduling of assets,
negotiated settlement, packaging of assets to facilitate disposition, and auctions. In compliance
with the Loans and Advances Realization Trust Act, of the total collections made, about 25 per
- 8 -



cent were utilized to meet operational cost, 4 per cent for payments to creditors, 27 per cent are
in fixed deposits, 41 per cent were remitted to the Treasury, and 3 percent are held in LART's
collection account. Of the 144 cases filed under the LART Tribunal since it commenced
operations in January 1994, 12 cases were pending judgment by the Tribunal when the project
closed in January 2001. Two decisions by the Tribunal were being challenged before the Court of
Appeals of Tanzania.
(iii) Civil Service Reform Program
The achievements under the CSRP were satisfactory. CSRP was implemented in two phases to
achieve a smaller, affordable, well compensated, efficient and effectively performing civil service.
The first phase focused on restoring the structural preconditions to support fiscal stabilization
measures, including removal of ghost workers, staff retrenchment, rationalization of the pay and
grading system, and reinstatement and establishment of payroll controls. The second phase
focused on institutional improvements and included a redefinition of the role of government,
restructuring for organizational effectiveness and efficiency, outsourcing certain services,
decentralization of service delivery, and managerial capacity building. CSRP provided the
strategic framework for the mobilization of donor support for the civil service reform program.
(Donors included the Department for International Development (UK), UNDP, Norwegian
Agency for International Development, Swedish International Development Agency, Netherlands,
European Union, Switzerland, and the Danish International Development Agency.)
The specific achievements of the component are summarized as follows.
*       Organization and efficiency reviews were conducted in the Ministries of Health,
education, Water, Agriculture, Local Government, Industry and Trade, Communications,
National Resources and Justice, and in departments, regions, municipalities, and districts; reviews
centered mainly on structural changes and streamlining.
*       Public service employees were reduced from about 355,000 in 1992 to 266,769 when
the project closed and after selective additional recruitment into the key sectors of education,
health and law and order.
*       Effective controls on employment and the wage bill were institutionalized.  All
recruitment and entries into the payroll are now controlled. A reliable central personnel database
has been established and a computerized payroll system (funded by DFID) is operational.
Distortions in the compensation system were removed with the incorporation of all ad-hoc and
non-transparent allowances into a consolidated basic salary structure and the rationalization of
salary scales and grades. The civil service salary structure has been decompressed from a ratio of
about 9 to 1 (in 1992) to about 21 to 1.
*       Programs to improve the leadership, management and governance qualities of the public
service, including training in key areas of leadership and management development, were
implemented. A new code of ethics and conduct for public servants has been promulgated.
Programs aimed at training public servants to adopt a more facilitating approach to private sector
-9-



operators were conducted in collaboration with the US Agency for International Development.
*       A comprehensive decentralization and local government reform program (LGRP) was
launched in 1997 and resulted in a reduction from about 14,000 to less than 2,000 staff
establishments in the regional administrations when the program was completed in 1998. Also,
the first phase of the program involving the restructuring of regional administrations was
completed and the establishments in each of the 20 regional administration units were reduced
from an average of 700 to about 83.
(iv) Macroeconomic Management.
The achievements under this component are satisfactory. Adoption of the VAT commenced with
the appointment of the VAT Implementation Team in 1994. The Value Added Tax Act was
enacted by Parliament, assented by the Government in October 1997, and became operational by
July 1998. Sufficient resource allocation and staff dedication led to the full implementation of the
VAT program. Over 2,800 employees implementing the VAT program were trained in-house or
through study tours.  Tax payer awareness and educational programs were implemented
nationwide to familiarize economic agents and tax payers with the new tax system.
Computerization of the system was completed in Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar. About 13,000
business establishments (87 percent of the target number) in Dar es Salaam and 498 (67 percent
of the target number) in Zanzibar were registered by December 1999.
The implementation of the NBS component resulted in: (a) updates to the national accounts
methodology to improve the quality of estimates; (b) surveys being conducted in the areas that
were identified as having little or no data (e.g. construction, transport, internal trade, etc.) to
strengthen the basic data incorporated in the national income estimates; and (c) the enhanced
capacity of the NBS as staff received further training, survey data was upgraded, and the statistics
systems were computerized.
The above impact and achievements were realized also with the essential support the project
received from a number of donors. DFID funded consulting work (parastatal subsidy study and
transactional work) and advisors (for PSRC) that was critical to pushing the project forward.
Support by DFID and a group of other donors for retrenchment payments (civil service) was
important in keeping the project on track. The partnership between the Bank and DFID
throughout the project in terms of planning, joint supervision missions and discussion of
developments was essential and valuable. The work done by USAID on the Investor Roadmap)
provided scope to understand and mitigate some of the difficulties facing potential investors in
Tanzania. No performance indicators were provided in the President's Report although a
logframe was drawn after the mid-term review (see Annex 1).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
- 10-



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
PSRC developed a well-established capability to handle public enterprise divestitures. The
experiences it gained in privatizing mostly small and medium public enterprises, a few large
enterprises, and the major national commercial bank positioned it to play a key role in the next
phase of the divestiture program. This phase will focus on privatizing major public utilities.
LART's effectiveness in expediting collections on non-performing assets of the state-owned banks
provided the base for it to extend its services to the banking sector at large and participate in the
debt collection market in support of the financial sector. Civil service reforms has moved the
Government to its next development phase where steps will be taken to further ensure public
services are results oriented. Measures would be taken to decentralize, contract out services,
privatize publicly held enterprises, and abolish non-core functions. These measures will enable the
Government to better focus its roles and functions on policy-making, regulation, good governance
and the provision of essential public services and infrastructure necessary to provide an enabling
environment for private sector development, economic growth, and poverty reduction.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The key factors that affected the project's implementation and outcome were the: (i) ambitious
and sometimes unrealistic privatization targets set by the International Monetary Fund and the
Bank under the SAC, which were often times very difficult to implement but also provided the
necessary impetus under this project for government officials to achieve the Government's
objectives; (iii) in the earlier years of project implementation, the absence of an agreed, common
vision among donors for civil service reforms resulted in the imposition of different donor
priorities on the Government and the provision of conflicting advice from a large number of
technical advisers; and (iii) the limited ability of nationals to accumulate financial assets deterring
their ability to acquire and revitalize state-owned assets.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Several factors substantially delayed the privatization process. While capacity limitations were
recognized at the design stage of the project and assistance to strengthen policy making, planning,
and management capacities were provided during the implementation phase of the project, the-
Government's focus had been on short-term problems instead of legal and regulatory issues and
institutional development. The program, therefore, had to pass through a longer learning process
before sufficient expertise was developed at a level that allowed the pace of implementation to
accelerate. Early on, there was no consensus within the Government on the opportunity of
- 11 -



efficiency gains through the privatization program. This was reflected in the delayed, complex,
and expensive Government approval and oversight system (multiple levels of review including the
Commission, An inter-ministerial committee, Cabinet, and relevant ministries).  Also, the
Government did not have a clear policy on how various types of debt would be dealt within the
context of the privatization program leading to ad hoc treatment of parastatal debt. The lack of a
streamlined, predictable debt treatment policy cost the government significant amounts and made
it more difficult to outsource transaction work in a cost effective manner (transaction advisors
insisted on contract clauses which ensure that they are paid in the event of such delays). In
addition, the system of public enterprise retrenchment payments was ad hoc, did not reflect
economic and social costs, and led to widely varying retrenchment payments across public
enterprises.  Further, there was no enabling regulatory framework for the utilities and
infrastructure parastatals.
On the liquidation of non-performing assets, the absence of the necessary business infrastructure
substantially contributed to difficulties in constructing financial data and valuing assets of
enterprises, obtaining contracts or documentary evidence of mortgages, acquiring a clear deed to
land, among others. This also slowed down the progress of the privatization process.
The key factors partially contributing to the performance of the civil service reform program were
the absence of a strategic civil service reform plan and weak Government leadership. While the
organization and efficiency reviews were conducted by central ministries in a highly participatory
way, these reviews were delayed. In addition, the early definition of priority functions of
ministries and departments compatible with the budget framework and efficient civil service
performance would have increased the impact of the program.
The VAT program was partially affected by the resistance to a suitable VAT organizational
structure by key government officials in the sales tax department resulting in the adoption of a less
than efficient structure led by two deputy commissioners with similar responsibilities. Also, the
absence of harmonized VAT laws in the mainland and in Zanzibar complicates the administration
of VAT goods in Zanzibar. These situations still need to be rectified by the Government.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The results oi tne project were partially affected by certain inactions by PSRC and the overall
project coordinator, and the strong performance of LART. PSRC's procedures for divestiture
transactions were not modified early on even if they entailed the use of multiple, and sometimes
subjective, criteria in the evaluation of bidders and the awarding of sales. Consultations within the
Government and negotiations with potential investors were protracted making the process time
consuming aid less than filly transparent to all participants. LART's strong management,
professional staff, and its operational autonomy and its ability to ensure that collection cases were
moved rapidly through a dedicated court contributed to its successful operations. For the civil
service program, the CSRP's effective coordination efforts with donors enabled it to mainstream
the reforms irn the ministries and take the program to the next development phase to realize
improvements in the quality of public services. During the early years of implementation,
personality clashes and complaints interchanged by the relevant ministry and the project
- 12 -



coordinator resulted in delays in contract payments amounting to almost $2 million,
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Differences between the projected and final cost and fmancing were primarily due to the project
execution requirements over the project life. Two extensions to the closing date were agreed
between the Government and IDA to enable the Government to continue supporting the
privatization process and the civil service reforms while the follow-on operations, the PPSDP and
the PSRP, were not yet effective. Support was also extended to enable the Government to
evaluate the impact of the project components. Co-financing resources were provided by DFID.
The original allocation was US$7.0 million; actual amounts have not been provided by DFID.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the accomplishments under the project is likely. The Government is
committed to further its privatization program and continue reforming the civil service sector.
Transition arrangements are currently being implementing under two IDA-funded follow-on
projects, the PPSDP and PSRP. These projects build on achievements made and lessons learned
to sustain and expand the developments under the privatization and civil service reform programs.
How effective they will be on the privatization program depends on their ability to continue to
provide stable macro-economic conditions and a favorable business environment, strengthen the
financial system and provide a broad-based shareholding mechanism, enable private enterprises to
access competitively-priced utility services, and foster the rapid development of indigenous
managerial, financial and technical skills. It will also be affected by the manner in which the
Government deals with post-privatization issues including collection of sales proceeds and
payment of claims of creditors and workers. Through the assistance provided under the project,
implementing agencies, the PSRC, LART, Government ministries and departments and agencies
in central and local government, the Tanzania Revenue Authority and NBS, have matured in their
roles and functions. It is essential to sustain the project's achievements that the Government does
not back track on the reforms and commitments it made under the privatization and civil service
reform programs. Reforms in the Government revenue system would prevail if the system is
computerized in other zones in the country, staff continue to be trained and controls against
corruption in revenue departments are maintained.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has been receiving additional support to further its privatization efforts and
implement a civil service reform program under two Bank-fimded projects, the PPSDP and the
PSRP. Under the PPSDP, the Govermment is implementing the next phase of the divestiture
program to privatize major public utilities (telecommunications, power, water) and infrastructure
(ports, railways, airlines). This phase includes key features such as the (i) development of
appropriate regulatory framework for utilities and infrastructure; (ii) active communication and
- 13 -



public awareness campaigns; (iii) increased delegation of responsibilities to sector ministries for
preparation, adoption and later monitoring of sector strategy and policies; (iv) streamlined
govermnental approval process using definitive, competitive bidding procedures, increased
authority and responsibility of transaction agents, and appointment of a process auditor; and (v)
consistent and standard approaches and policy guidelines on the treatment of public enterprise
debt and employee retrenchment payments. To complement the PE divestiture program, the
Project also supports active consultations between the government and the private sector to help
define key policy, regulatory, and institutional reforms for improving the business environment for
private investment and foreign direct investment.
LART's efforts to further realize collections on non-performing assets of state-owned and private
banks is being supported also under the PPSDP. In addition, resources will fund the development
of a strategy and the implementation of: (i) the subsequent transfer of LART to the private
sector, as part of a broader approach to the financial sector, through the creation of a competitive
debt collection market, and (ii) the subsequent transfer of the LART Tribunal to the commercial
court system.
The following key performnance indicators have been established:
-  On the main objective of reallocating national resources to achieve development goals: (i)
contribution to growth of GDP thru privatized sectors; (ii) investment in privatised
enterprises; (iii) post-privatization growth in employment.
*  On the project development objective of reducing the role of the State in commercial
activities: (i) reduction of PE portfolio; (ii) reduction of government assistance to PEs;
(iii) number of PEs privatized: 20 strategic/large enterprises; 1 80smalllmedium
enterprises; (iii) share of PE sector privatized by 2004: 80 percent of sector by total
employment & turnover; 60 percent increase private sector contribution to GDP; 10
percent expansion of employment; 20 percent increase in labour productivity; 20 percent
increase revenue flows to government; (iv) numbers of or involvement of Tanzanians in
the privatization process increased through share ownership through spin offs-local
businesses supplying privatized enterprises and value of shares listed; (v) reduction in the
number and percent of NPAs in the banking/financial system: more than 90 percent of
NPAs recovered by 2004; (vi) creation of competitive debt management market industry
at least 3 agencies, including privatized LART, and functioning by 2004; (vii) over 100
firms investing private funds into the economy; over US$5.0 billion of investment; (viii)
over 50 policy recommendations to government.
Indicators are also in place for each project component.
The PSRP is supporting the Public Service Reform Program, a three-phase, 12-year program that-
will institutionalize the reforms accomplished under the CSRP and bring about further
improvements in the quality of public services. To this end, Phase 1 (2000-2004) of the program
will build on the executive agency program, management information system, and leadership,
management, and governance components of the CSRP. Components focus on performance
- 14 -



improvement and program coordination, and monitoring and evaluation. The performance
improvement component will initiate a long-term process of sustainable capacity building and the
transformation of the public service to results-oriented management. Building on the CSRP
monitoring and evaluation system, it will cover outcomes and impact assessments in terms of
changes in the quality of and access to public services, responding to public expectations for
value, satisfaction, and relevance of services. These components are key to the success of the
Program and will be given high priority at the outset of Phase 1. After installing the strategic
process for sustainable performance improvement, and the new institutional framework for service
delivery, the focus of Phase 2 (2005-2008) will be on instituting a performance management
culture in the public sector. Once achieved, the total client orientation through continuous quality
cycles (benchmarking, total quality management) will be introduced in Phase 3 (2009-2011). The
project's development objectives and key performance indicators are summarized as follows:
* On CAS-related goal of improving public expenditure efficiency: (i) public sector is
downsized towards affordable level and total wage bill sustained at levels consistent with
fiscal stability; (ii) budgets of ministries, departments, and agencies (MDAs) reflect sector
priorities and improved allocation to operational and maintenance expenditures; (iii)
accountability and reporting on use of public resources is improved;
* On Program purpose of ensuring service delivery within priority sectors of public service:
(i) the quality of public services retained by the public sector is improved; (ii) the
participation of the private sector in delivery of public services is increased; (iii) policies
and regulations necessary for decentralization, private sector development and poverty
reduction are implemented;
* On the Program development objectives on accountability, transparency and resource
management: (i) services are delivered efficiently and effectively and performance
orientation in the Govermment's key economic and social programs are improved; (ii)
capacity and performance in the core functions of Government are strengthened.
Indicators have also been established for all the Phase I components which include: (a)
Performance Improvement; (b) Restructuring and Private Sector Participation; (c) Executive
Agencies Program; (d) Management Information Systems; (e) Leadership Management and
Governance; (f) Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation; and (g) Distance Learning Center.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending.
During project identification, the Bank was satisfied that the project objectives were consistent
with the Bank's assistance strategy for Tanzania, the country's development needs at that time,
and the Government's development strategy in response to those needs.  Driven by the-
Government's commitment to the reforms required to relieve the fiscal burden, the Bank and the
Government proceeded to define the project activities and design the project incorporating
lessons from previous projects in the country and the sector. An effective and constructive
relationship between the Government and the Bank team, comprising members with the required
- 15 -



technical, financial, economic, and institutional skills, was maintained during project preparation.
The Bank correctly assessed the project's major risks (including potential political and social
opposition and the Government's limited experience in implementing privatization plans) and the
project cost and financial requirements. However, the incorporation of two major activities in one
project, i.e. restructuring the fonnal economy including cleaning up the State-run financial sector,
and reducing the Civil Service, resulted in a very complex project to implement. Also, as
indicated earlier, the project impact would have increased if it incorporated a comprehensive
communications package, measurable indicators, and a well-defined strategic plan for civil service
reforms. Nonetheless, some design gaps were filled primarily because the Bank introduced
flexibility during project implementation in the project design. The Bank's performance during
project preparation is rated satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The supervision of the project by the Bank was satisfactory. This was confirmed when the Bank's
Quality Assurance Group reviewed the project and selected it for the Excellence in Supervision
award in 1998. Given the project was far-reaching, ambitious and complex, the inclusion of staff
and consultants with specialized skills and the complementary operational, procurement, and audit
support from the Bank's field office staff was required.  Progress on major privatization
procedures, policy on infrastructure, debt and retrenchment were significantly made following
intensive, cordial and productive working relationships with various units of the Government and
donors. This support, however, increased the administrative cost to the Bank. Task managers
faced difficulties in getting the Bank's management to recognize the high cost of supervising such
a complex project and to sufficiently provide for a team dedicated to ensure implementation
progress was kept on track. Over the seven years of project implementation, 18 supervision
missions were conducted, an average of two missions per year. Aide-memoires were regularly
prepared and transmitted to alert the Government to problems with project execution and provide
remedies.
The impact and sustainability of the project would have improved if the Bank also incorporated
guidelines and benchmarks that would have guided the assessment of the project achievements.
This was more important after the mid-term review when a comprehensive assessment of the
accomplishment and implementation experience was conducted.  The Bank's efforts were
focussed instead on the development of the follow-on operations. Also, the number of changes in
project team leadership caused some stress to implementing agencies when changes were
belatedly communicated to these agencies and procurement matters remained unattended for
extended periods of time. This was eventually corrected.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.
- 16 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's level of commitment to the objectives of the project was demonstrated early
during project preparation. Government counterparts were available to provide the required
technical, financial, economic, and institutional support when the project was being defined. Key
officials and staff who were expected to play an active role in the implementation of the project
collaborated with the Bank's project team during project preparation. To launch its privatization
program, a formal privatization policy statement was issued and the Presidential Parastatal Sector
Reform Commission was established to coordinate the program. The establishment of LART was
also timely. The Government's performance during the project preparation stage was satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during project implementation was satisfactory. Although it
experienced major difficulties during the first two years of project implementation (see section 5.2
for a detailed explanation), the Government's sustained commitment to the project goals led to
the satisfactory achievements under the privatization and civil service reform programs. This was
most evident in the selection of qualified staff to implement the project components, its
establishment of the LART Tribunal, and coordination with various donors to implement a
far-reaching civil service program. The impact of the project improved after the mid-term review
when the leadership in Government took steps (albeit belatedly) to correct the slow progress in
implementation and focus on the requirements to privatize the larger enterprises in order to
eventually realize a greater impact on the fiscal problems. The replacement of the project
coordinator whose work was disruptive particularly to the implementation of civil service reform
initiatives, the timely payments of consultant fees, and the disbursement process also improved
project execution.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The collaboration between all the implementing agencies during project execution was
satisfactory. Following the resolution of the problems experienced during the early years of
project execution, particularly relating to the Borrower's buy-in of the privatization policies and
procedures and the civil service reforms after the mid-term review, qualified and dedicated
officers maintained a level of commitment necessary to realize the reform objectives. Officers at
LART and the LART Tribunal implemented their program professionally and proactively and
utilized the capacity building resources effectively. The project coordinating unit's problem with
the coordinator negatively affected procurement and disbursement processes and the~
postponement in removing this official unnecessarily delayed important initiatives and payments to
consultants. Progress reports and annual work plans and budgets were prepared as required.
Audit reports were submitted as required and received unqualified opinions.
- 17 -



7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Noting the key areas summarized above, the Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The key lessons learned under this project include the following.
*     A  credible privatization program  will require (a) a comprehensive communications
progra.ii ,'Wsig::ed to reach all stakeholders (including the general public) and to educate them on
the policies, the program and the use of the proceeds particularly at the very early stages of
project implementation and throughout project execution; (b) a retrenchment and public
enterprise debt policy that is carefully evaluated, planned, and implemented consistently; and (c)
increased technical capacity through contracting out to experienced sector investment advisers
and consultants (particularly for large, infrastructure related firms).
*     There is a need to define upfront the privatization strategy including measurable targets,
modalities and the roles of the various institutions and agencies involved (at ministerial, cabinet,
and implementing agency levels) to ensure an efficient, transparent process. This is particularly
important as experience has shown that the lack of a clearly delineated process with clear areas of
responsibility has led to confusion, lack of coordination, and lack of accountability.
*     Attracting  sufficient high quality investors and operators and ensuring  effective
competition in the privatization process are possible only when a regulatory framework
(particularly in key sectors including banking, infrastructure, and utility sectors) is in place and
clearly spells out fair treatment of investors, reduced ability of the concerned parties (including
future governments) to unilaterally undo commitments, and protection of consumers from misuse
of monopoly power.
X     An effective civil service reform program will require: overt and widely held political
sponsorship; government commitment to reforns; sufficient capacity for change management in
ministries, departments, and agencies; strong monitoring and evaluation mechanisms; clear
incentives for the institutions and individuals to achieve reform objectives; and sufficient funding
resources to complete program implementation.
*     When the Bank decides to support complex, far-reaching projects in a country
experiencing changing levels of commitment and insufficient human capital to manage the project,
it is essential that the Bank allocates sufficient budgetary resources that reflect a recognition of
the levels of expertise and the time required to realize essential changes in policy and procedures.
The above lessons have been incorporated in the project design, including the key performance
indicators, for the PPSDP and PSRP (see section 6 above).
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 18 -



1.0   Background
1.1   Following Government's commitment in undertaking economic recovery reforms, a
number of programmes have been initiated and implemented. Although these reforms have since
induced economic recovery, the concern (as from 1990s) remained with the following:-
*     Fiscal drain caused by inefficient and financially distressed
parastatal sector;
*     An overstaffed civil service sector; and
*     Poor economic management due to Government's weak
capacity.
1.2   The weaknesses out-lined above became a major concern and made Government to shift
its focus towards public sector reform. The objective of the desired reform aimed at easing fiscal
burden and enhancing capacity to manage continued economic reforms. In order to implement
these reformns and move forward, IDA assisted the Government through the Public Sector
Adjustment Credit (PSAC).
1.3   Against this background, the Parastatal and Public Sector Reform Project (PPSRP) was
Government's parallel and complementary operation which provided the requisite technical
assistance for Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC). The PPSRP was, therefore, formulated
to provide the technical assistance and longer-term capacity building needs.
1.4   Negotiations for PPSRP were held in Washington, D.C. in   1993 between the
representatives of the Government of United Republic of Tanzania (URT) and the International
Development Association (IDA); and on July 26th, 1993 the Development Credit Agreement
amounting to SDR 25.2 million was signed. The Government of U.K. through Department for
International Development (DIFD) provided a grant of USD 7.0 million for Parastatal Sector
Reform Commission (PSRC) and Civil Service Reform Programme (CSRP) respectively; and the
Government of Finland and the European Union (EU) also provided grant of USD 0.383 million
and 4.23 million to VAT respectively. These grants were separately administered and disbursed.
2.0   Execution Arrangement
2.1   The overall supervision of the project was vested on a Steering Committee of Permanent
Secretaries of Finance, Civil Service Department (CSD), and Planning Commission; and
implementation component managers of Parastatal Sector Reform Conmmission (PSRC), Loans
and Advances Realization Trust (LART), LART Tribunal, Civil Service Reform Programme
(CSRP), Strengthening of National Accounting (SNA) and Value Added Tax (VAT). The
Steering Committee was chaired by the Permanent Secretary to the Treasury.
Mid-Term Review
2.2   The PPSRP mid-term review was undertaken between February and March, 1996 to
- 19 -



assess on the progress of implementation of the credit. Also a post-mid-term supervision mission
was undertaken in June, 1996 to assess progress of implementation.
3.0    Performance of Components
A:   Parastatal Reforms
3.1    The parastatal reforms were being undertaken as a measureto ease the fiscal burden
on the parastatal sector. To implement the parastatal reform programme, the Government took
the following actions:-
(a)   The Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC) was created to coordinate and
implement divestiture and restructuring of parastatal enterprises;
(b)   The Loans and Advances Realization Trust (LART) and LART Tribunal were created and
put in place to act as an integral part of the parastatal reform programme. The basic functions
being to liquidate non-performning assets held on the bank's books.
(i)    Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC)
3.2    The Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC) was charged with coordination and
implementation of divestiture and restructuring of 395 parastatal enterprises. At the end of the
project, PSRC had already divested 333 parastatals (84 percent) out of 395 earmarked for
divestiture. The divestiture methods were through share sale, lease, liquidation, outright sale
and/or management employee buy out (MEBO). The divestiture values as at the end of the
project were USD 275 million and TShs.50,965 million respectively. Investment value amounted to
TShs.50,519 million and USD 585.21 million respectively.
3.3    During implementation of the PSRC sub-component, there were a number of
constraints which hindered or delayed timely implementation of the required plans. These
included:-
*     The capacity building programme for members of PSRC on divestiture and restructuring
delayed implementation of component activities for two years.
*     Lack of records made the valuation of companies earmarked for divestiture difficult and
time consuming.
*     Marketing of parastatals proved to be a difficult task due to absence of an economic and
financial environment conducive for privatization.
*     Absence of clear policy guidelines regarding the payment of retrenchees benefits and
treatment of debts.
(ii) Loans and Advances Realization Trust and Tibunal
3.4    The Loans and Advances Realization Trust (LART) was created with the objective
of liquidating non-performing assets (NPAs) held on the bank's books. There were 104 NPAs
- 20 -



with face value of TShs.27.o billion transferred to LART for liquidation. As at the end of the
project, the value on NPAs recovered was TShs.14.8 billion (54.7 percent) of estimated face value
of 104 NPAs. The distribution of these NPAs was as follows:-
Bank*          No. of         Value        %
NPAs    (TShs. Billion)
NBC                    56           18.89         70
CRDB                  37            5.24          19
PBZ                    11           2.87           11
Total NPAs            104           27.0         100
* NBC - National Bank of Cotmmerce
CRDB - Cooperatives and Rural Development Bank
PBZ - Peoples Bank of Zanzibar
3.5    To  expedite the process of NPA  recovery and bring   about meaningful fiscal
performance, LART Tribunal was created. The Tribunal, an adjudicatory body of LART was
established to hear and determine all disputes arising in the process of implementing the provisions
of the LART Act. This was also meant to ensure LART realized its objectives within its time
frame.
3.6   In the course of implementation, the sub-components faced the following constraints:-
*     Absence of mechanisms and procedures for guiding the process
of NPAs recovery.
*     Lack of ownership of some debts.
*     Lack of proper and secure collateral for some NPAs.
*     Lack of ability and capability to repay the obligations.
*     Lack of market potential to absorb the NPAs.
*     Legal actions hindered the NPA recovery process.
Impact Emanatins from Parastatal Reform
3.7    The impact emanating from  the implementation of the Parastatal Sector Reform
include:-
*     The divested parastatals have reduced the fiscal burden on Government.
*     Induced capacity for local ownership of divested parastatals.
*     Divestiture has induced increased direct foreign investment (DFI) hence increased capital
- 21 -



formation.
*     Divestiture has induced creation of new skills and technology.
*     Privatized enterprises have improved competitiveness in terms of increased efficiency,
productivity and capacity utilization.
*     Divestiture has induced and increased competitiveness of local products.
*     Contributed to Government revenue in form of taxes and dividends.
*     Some NPAs have been collected and induced other non-performing assets (NPAs) to
perform.
*     Improved financial performance and discipline in credit management of banks and financial
institutions.
*     Creation of new employment opportunities and improved terms and conditions.
B:    Civil Service Reform Programme (CSRP)
3.8    The Civil Service Reform Programme (CSRP) was designed to implement the following:-
(a)   Organization and Efficiency: The following were implemented:
*     Completed the redefinition of the role of the Government.
-     Commenced creation of Executive Agencies by putting nine (9) agencies in place out of
117 redefined and planned.
*     Appropriate Organization Structures for ministries and independent departments
determined.
*     :Restructuring of regional secretariats undertaken and completed.
*     Improved services (Quick wins) in some ministries and independent departments put in
place.
(b)   Pay Reform: With regard to this aspect, the following were achieved:
*     Simplified salary structure from 196 grades and 23 scales to 45 grades and 4 scales
respectively.
*     Civil Service Salary structure adjusted from a ratio of 9:1 to 2:1.
*     Compensation structures simplified and inequitable allowances eliminated.
(c)   Personnel Management Systems:
*     Drafts on Code of Ethics and Staff Appraisal system completed.
*     A Unit of Ethics created at Civil Service Departnent (CSD).
(d)   Personnel Control and Information Systems:
*     Central payroll database established.
*     Ghost workers and fraudulent payments eliminated.
*     Database of all civil servants put in place.
- 22 -



*     Personnel Control Section at Civil Service Department (CSD) strengthened.
*     Payroll Control Section at Ministry of Finance (MOF) strengthened.
*     A team of information system analysts from Civil Service Department and Ministry of
Finance put in place .
*     Integrated payroll and human resources system established and computerized.
(e)    Retrenchment and Redeployment:
*      On retrenchment, 89,000 employees were retrenched at a cost of T.Shs.68.75 billion.
*      Civil Service employees reduced from 355,000 in 1992 to 266,000 in 2000.
*      On redeployment, a total of 40,500 out of 47,500 retrenchees benefited from counseling
services, skills training and enterprise development training.
Impact Resulting from Civil Service Reform
3.9    The implementation of the Civil Service Reform programme produced the following
impacts:-
*     The Wage bill reduced by 30 percent of total recurrent
expenditure.
*     The size of civil service establishment downsized.
*     Effective systems of personnel control and payroll put in place.
C:   Macro-economic Manai-ement
3.10  The component was designed to improve selected aspects of the macro-economic
management system for sustenance of overall public sector reform programmes. The selected
elements were:
*     Preparation and introduction of VAT as an improvement in areas of taxation.
*     Improvement in the area of national income accounts.
(i)    Value Added Tax VAT
3.11  VAT was introduced to replace Sales Tax Act with a view to broadening tax base and
ensuring compliance to taxpayers. The actions taken in the establishment of VAT included:-
*     The VAT Act, 1997 was put in place, and became operational on July 1, 1998.
*     About 1,400 employees were trained in various areas relating to VAT administration and
operations.
*     Publicity and taxpayer education for creating awareness of and compliance to VAT was
conducted.
*     All internal control procedures were put in place.
*     Computerization was completed in Dar es Salaam Zone.
- 23 -



*     In the first year of implementation, 13,132 (87 percent) taxpayers were registered for
VAT compared to 15,000 targeted for registration.
(ii)   Strengthening of National Accounts (SNA)
3.12  The Strengthening of National Accounts sub-component aimed at:-
*     Up-grading the methodology of national accounts estimation;
*     Development of raw data for selected sectors; and
*     Integrating the new data into GDP.
3.13  In the course of implementation, the following achievements were realized:-
(a)   The national accounts methodology was upgraded.
(b)   The survey conducted improved the coverage in the
construction, trade and transport sectors.
(c)   Capacity building for the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS)
staff was undertaken.
(d)   National Accounts were computerized.
ImDact Resultin2 from ImDlementation
3.14  The impact resulting from the implementation of the selected macroeconomic features -
VAT and SNA include:
-     Broadened tax base with high level of compliance to payment of taxes.
-     Tax revenue collection increased from TShs.140,520 million in 1997/98 to TShs.208,579
mnillion in 1998/99 after introduction of VAT.
*     Government revenue enhanced with the introduction of VAT.
3     iEstimation of GDP has been upgraded, thus reflecting improved coverage of the national
economy.
*     Upgrading of methodology has changed the macroeconomic indicator by integrating more
data into GDP.
4.0    Overall Coordination and Supervision
4.1    The overall coordination and supervision of the project was the responsibility of the
Project Steering Committee comprised of:-
*     Permanent Secretaries of Ministry of Finance, Planning Commission and Civil Service
Department; and
*     Component Managers of PSRC, CSRP, LART, VAT and SNA.
The Steering Committee was chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MOF and assisted by
the Secretariat headed by Project Administrator.
- 24 -



4.2    The project was properly supervised and the credit proceeds effectively utilized
according to the project work plans. The borrower utilized SDR 24.78 million out of SDR 25.2
million being 98 percent of the credit proceeds.
5.0    Lessons Learned
*     In future, it is considered important to have all fundamental policy issues addressed to at
the design stage to avoid delays in implementation.
*     The public awareness campaign should have been planned during project design stage.
*     Mechanisms and procedures required to guide the process of debt recovery ought to have
been put in place during project design.
*     Local capacities and capabilities have been created for sustained economic reforms.
*     Government and donors were all committed to the successful implementation of the
project.
*     The project was professionally and competently administered.
6.0   Conclusion
6.1    The credit for the implementation of the parastatal and public sector reforms was very
useful as it supported government efforts in implementing the on-going economic reforms.
Progress has been made in the divestiture and restructuring of parastatals. Over 84 percent of
parastatals have been divested and about 55 percent of NPAs liquidated and recovered. The
macroeconomic management improved; and the Civil Service sector continues to be realigned and
strengthened.
6.2    The  divestiture  and  restructuring of the  parastatals, improved macroeconomic
management and realigned and strengthened civil service have all contributed to curbing of fiscal
drain and brought an improvement on overall government revenue and allocation of resources.
Privatization, in particular, has stimulated private local ownership and competition for local and
global markets. Demand for attracting international capital has therefore increased.
(h) Cofinanciers:
DFID reviewed this report and is in agreement with the general conclusions documented herein.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 25-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
0;;0000 ind';I&atrn1Mtr0L0  ix   |r~t~  ht0 0las PSRla*P0 Atua ULa 0 k test Estimate j0 
Civil Service Reform:                December 1999                         December 1999
- implementation of retrenchment program in
central and local governments, and military
- implementatlon of personnel management
and control, pay reform, and ministerial
organization & efficiency reviews
Parastatal Reform:                   On-going under the Privatization and Private On-going under the Privatization and Private
- implementation of GOTs PE divestiture    Sector Development Project; by 2004  Sector Development Project; by 2004
program including larger parastatals in key
sectors notably tradables and utilities
- entry of private investors into sectors
previously dominated by PEs
- reducton of fiscal drain caused by
VAT Reform:                          December 1999                         December 1999
- implementation of an efficient well-operating
value added bax, conlbuting to increased tax
revenues
LART:                                On-going under the Privabzation and Private On-going under the Privatization and Private
- successful legal settlement of     Sector Development Project; by 2003   Sector Development Project; by 2003
non-performing assets of state-owned banks
assigned to LART, contributing to reduced
fiscal drain and improved credit discipline
National Accounts:                   May 1997                              May 1997
- implementaton of sustainable
improvements in statistcal systems for
national aocounts
Output Indicators:
End of project
-26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
roect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)    ______   ______
Appraisal   Actuallatest   Percentage of
Esfimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ miflion    US$ million
Privatization                                      22.21          24.58            111
LART                                                3.03           8.75           289
Civil service reform                               15.29          11.28            74
Macroeconomic management                            2.00           4.73           237
Project implementation                              0.35           1.52           937
Total Baseline Cost                                42.88          50.86
Price Contingencies                                2.81
Total Project Costs            45.69          50.86
Total Financing Required            45.69          50.86
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category     iCB       Procurement Methd            N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     1.61         0.20         0.20         0.00         2.01
(1.61)      (0.20)        (0.20)       (0.00)       (2.01)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00        32.66         7.00        39.66
(0.00)       (0.00)       (32.66)      (0.00)      (32.66)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.41         3.80         4.21
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.23)       (0.00)       (0.23)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     1.61         0.20         33.27        10.80        45.88
(1.61)       (0.20)       (33.09)      (0.00)      (34.90)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt
Procurement Method'
E-xpenditure Category    ICB          NCS         Other'       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     1.52         0.23         0.75        0.00         2.50
(1.52)      (0.23)        (0.16)      (0.00)       (1.91
3. Services                 5.08         25.78        3.16         0.00        34.02
(5.08)      (24.24)       (3.16)      (0.00)      (32.48)
- 27 -



4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           14.34          0.00          14.34
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.60)         (0.00)         (0.60)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00
Total                         6.60           26.01          18.25          0.00          50.86
(6.60)        (24.47)        (3.92)         (0.00)        (34.99)
I Figures in parenthesis are the amnounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
1 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component              ApprisxlEsiate               A      a                     rentage gf Appraisal
________________    IDA      GoVL.      COF.      Bank      iGov.      CoF.    Biak   Govt.  COF.
Privatization                                           17.03      7.94
LART                                                     4.34       3.89
Civil service reform                                    10.53       1.10
Macroeconomic manage-                                    2.73      2.19
mnent
Project implementation                                   0.35      0.75
Appraisal estimates are not available.
- 28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions;
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
February 1993                1   Economics
June 1993                   1   Economics
July 1993                    1   Public Sector Management
August 1993             Knapp   Public Sector Management
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal -                 4
December 1992
Negotiations April
1993
Supervision
2/94                         1  Public Sector Management            S             HS
4/94                         2   Public Sector Management
Mrope
8/94                         1  Public Sector Management            S             HS
3/95                         1   Public Sector Management
5/95                         4   Institutional Development,         S              S
Economics, Public Sector
Management
7/95                         1  Economics
10/95                        1   Economics                          S              S
4/96 (MTR)                       Economics,                          S             U
Operations/Procurement, robert
craver, Public Sector
Management, Operations,
Privatization, Country Program,
Macroeconomics
6/96                         3   Economics, Public Sector            S             S
Management, Privatization,
Operations
4/97                         2   Public Sector Management,           S             S
Operations
9/97                         4   Industrial Economics, Public        S             S
Sector Management,
Privatization, Operations/
Procurement
12/97                        5   Industrial Economics, Public       S              S
Sector Management,
Operations/Procurement,
Privatization, Utilities
Regulations
- 30 -



5/98 (including                6   Industrial Economics, Public
preparation of                      Sector Management,
follow-on project)                 Privatization, Operations/
Procurement, Private
Participation in Infrastructure,
Operations, Utilities Regulations
10/98 (including               3   Industrial Economics,                 S               S
preparation of                     Privatization, Operations
follow-on project)
4/99 (including                9   Industrial Economics,                 S               S
preparation of                      Privatization, Operations,
follow-on project)                 Utilities Regulations, Economics,
Financial Management,
Procurement
10/99 (including               3   Industrial Economics, Utilities
preparation of                     Regulations, Privatization
follow-on project)
03/00 (including               3   Industrial Economics, Utilities
preparation of                     Regulations, Privatization
follow-on project)
I 1/00 (including              3   Industrial Economics, Utilities
follow-on project)                 Regulations, Privatization
ICR
3/01(including                5    Privatization, Operations             S               S
supervision of
follow-on project)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                USS ('000)
Identification/Preparation                   8.1                          20.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                       50.3                          84.2
Supervision                                252.4                         550.9
ICR                                          5.0                          19.6
Total                                      315.8                         674.9
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Sector Policies                       O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
El Physical                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Financial                             O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Institutional Development             O H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Gender                          OH OSUOM ON ONA
El Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Private sector development            0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management              0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS*S OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
D] Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
E Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS *S  0  U  0 HU
0 Overall                                            O HS * S 0 U O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. List of Studies included in Project
2. ICR Mission Aide Memoire
3. Implementation Completion Report prepared by the Borrower
4. Quarterly Progress Reports and Annual Reports
5. Minutes of ICR review meeting
- 34 -



