CREDIT NUMBER 2507 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Parastatal and Public Sector Reform Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                       , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2507 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           (   X    9, 1993,
between UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA th  orrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Borrower intends to obtain from the Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, grant assistance in an amount
approximately equivalent to $7,000,000 to assist in financing the
Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
me-inings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "1MO'" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
(b)   "PSRC" means the Borrower's Presidential Parastatal
Sector Reform Commission established pursuant to the Public
Corporations (Amendment) Act, 1992;
(c)   "LART" means the Loans and Advances Realization Trust
established pursuant to the Loans and Advances Realization Trust
Act, No. 6 of 1991;


﻿-2-
(d)   "VAT" means value added tax;
(e)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(f)   "Project  Preparation   Advance"  means   the  project
preparation advarce granted by the Association to the Bor-ower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 17, 1990, and
December 21, 1990, between the Borrower and the Association; and
(g)   "Project Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-five million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 25,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credi'.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts (Special
Account A for Part A of the Project and Special Account B for Parts
B, C and D of the Project) in its central bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the ptovisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and cutstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
0


﻿-3-
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;   (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the curreicy specified in thiLs Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Sec±ion 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower .Aall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
Annual insi.allments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2003, and ending March 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installmen.t payable on March 15,
2013, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each


﻿-4-
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative and public sector reform practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.


﻿-5-
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall for the purposes of the
Project: (a) open and maintain two Project accounts, one for Part A
of the Project and the other for Parts B, C and D of the Project;
and (b) deposit into said Project Accounts, on a quarterly basis,
its contribution to the costs of the Project as specified in the
annual work programs referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish  to   the  Association,  as   soon  as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail


﻿-6-
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
.expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
.records   and    accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Accounts  was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other    documents)   evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable  the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that   such  records and accouns    are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower shall have deposited its first quarterly
contribution of $190,000 equivalent into the Project Accounts
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(b)   The Borrower has appointed the Project Administrator
referzed to in Paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the Borrower has selected an organization to undertake
procurement of equipment under the Project.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister for the time responsible for
finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam,
Tanzania
Cable address:                 Telex:
TREASURY                  41329
Dar es Salaam


﻿For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                  Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By   51C    OA-
B/Authozed Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Viceresident
Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the pr6ceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   For Part A
of the Project:
(a) Equipment and          300,000       100%
vehicles
(b) Consultants'        12,850,000       100%
services and
training
(2)   For Part B of the
Project:
(a) Equipment and           70,000       100%
vehicles
(b) Consultants'         1,890,000       100%
services and
training


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)   For Part C of
the Project:
(a) Equipment and         690,000        100%
vehicles
(b) Consultants'        6,040,000        100%
services and
training
(c) Incremental           160,000        100% of foreign
operating costs                     expenditures and
25% of local
expenditures
(4)   For Parts D.1, 3
and 4 of the Project:
(a) Equipment and          50,000        100%
vehicles
(b) Consultants'          630,000        100%
services
(5)   For Part D.2 of
the Project:
(a) Equipment and          50,000        100%
vehicles
(b) Consultants'          630,000        100%
services
- A N          -   - -- A1  i- 4


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6)   Project                    210,000        100%
Coordination
(7)   Refunding of Project       720,000       Amounts due pur-
Preparation Advance                       suant to Section
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(8)   Unallocated                910,000
TOTAL              25,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule;
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means the costs
of telecommunications, printing, fuel, per diem associated with
training, rental of training facilities, operatioh and maintenance
of vehicles, office costs associated with counselling, office
supplies, and materials.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) payments for
expenditures under Categories (1)(a) and (b) until the Borrower has
appointed the core technical group for PSRC; (c) payments for
expenditures under Categories (2) (a) and (b) until the Borrower has
appointed a resident adviser to the Chief Administrator of LART; and
(d) payments for expenditures under Categories (5) (a) and (b) until
the Borrower has furnished to the Association, a time bound action


﻿- 12 -
plan and detailed resource needs, satisfactory to the Association,
for the implementation of VAT.
~  -                  4


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
(i) carrying out its public sector reform program, (ii) the further
design and implementation of a comprehensive civil service reform
program, and (iii) strengthening selected features of macroeconomic
management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Privatization and Public Enterprise Reform
1.    Strengthening the capabilities of PSRC to facilitate the
coordination and implementation of the Borrower's privatization
program.
2.    Development of policies and procedures in such areas as
legislation, divestiture plans and implementation, debt settlement,
share or asset valuation, wide ownership instruments, performance
contracts, labor redeployment and safety net schemes.
3.    Preparation   and  implementation   of   action   plans   for
restructuring and upgrading the performance of key retained Public
Enterprises.
4.    Provision of training, seminars and workshops and acquisition
of vehicles, computers and office equipment ftc above activities.
Part B:     LART
1.    Strengthening the capabilities of LART to facilitate the
coordination and implementation of the Borrower's liquidation
program.
2.    Performance of tasks in such areas as valuation, disposal of
assets, financial controls and payment of obligations and short-term
management of ongoing concerns.
3.    Provision  of  training,   seminars  and  study  tours, and
acquisition of vehicles and computers for above activities.


﻿- 14 -
Part C:     Civil Service Reform
1.    Strengthening the Civil Service Department in the President's
Office to refine and implement a civil service strategy and time
bound action plan, including the tackling of issues of retrenchment,
redeployment, ministerial rationalization, pay reform and personnel
control and management.
2.    Provision of training and workshops and carrying out of a
general communications program for the general public.
3.    Acquisition of vehicles, computers and office equipment for
above activities.
Part D:     Macroeconomic Management
1.    Strengthening of the Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance
and Bank of Tanzania in the areas of ministerial rationalization and
budgetary and financial systems, including strengthening of aid
reporting and recording systems.
2.    Reforming the tax system through the introduction of VAT and
other taxation measures.
3.    Development and implementation of macroeconomic policy.
4.    Provision of training and acquisition of vehicles, computers
and other office equipment for above activities.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For fixed-price contracts,   the invitation   to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two prelisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other international recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Tanzania may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 16 -
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each cohtract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
4~


﻿- 17 -
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part E:     Pre-shipment Inspection
For the purposes of the pre-shipment inspection of goods
imported under the Project, no price verification shall be conducted
in respect of those goods to which Part A of this Section applies.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of cor-ract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review or approval requirements shall not apply to the
terms of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of
individuals, to single-source hiring of firms, to assignments of a
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Association, and to
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrcwer's Steering Committee on Public Sector Management
Reform, shall be responsible for the coordination and supervision of
the Project. The Committee shall be chaired by the Principal
Secretary, MOF and comprise the following: Principal Secretary,
Planning Commission, Principal Secretary, Civil Service Department,
Chairman of PSRC, Chief Administrator of LART and a representative
of the Bank of Tanzania. The Committee shall meet at least once each
quarter, to review progress, and make appropriate decisions on
Project implementation.
2.    Project Implementation shall be the responsibility of the
following:
(a)   PSRC shall be responsible for Part A of the Project;
(b)   LART shall be responsible for Part B of the Project;
(c)   the Civil Service Department shall be responsible for
Part C of the Project; and
(d)   MOF/Planning Commission shall be responsible for Part D
of the Project.
Each of the above Ministries/Agencies shall designate a component
manager, who shall be satisfactory to the Association, and shall
report directly to the head of the Ministry or Agency concezned on
the progress of activities under the Project.
3.    A project office attached to the Steering Committee, shall
provide administrative support to the Ministries and Agencies
responsible for the implementation of the Project. The office shall
be headed by a Project Administrator, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association and assisted by a small
number of support staff. The office's main responsibilities shall be
to handie the administrative aspects of: (a) recruitment and
employment of resident experts and short term consultants, as
requested by the component managers; (b) procurement of goods,
including computers, vehicles, office equipment, through liaison
with the procurement agency; (c) management of the Special Accounts
and project accounts, including preparation and presentation of
withdrawal and replenishment applications for the Credit proceeds;
,A3


﻿- 19 -
(d) ensuring that the quarterly reports are prepared by the
component managers, discussed by the Steering Committee, and then
forwarded to the Associationv (e) assistance to component managers
for the preparation of yearly work plans; and (f) acting as the
secretariat to the Steering Committee.
4.    The Borrower shall prepare and furnish or cause to be prepared
and furnished to the Association by March I in each year annual work
programs for the various Parts of the Project. Such annual work
program shall include, inter alia, evaluation of consultants'
performance and a detailed training plan for the following year,
taking into account experience in the previous year.
5.    The Borrower shall by September 30, 1993, appoint and maintain
until completion of the Project, the Chief Technical Advisor for
Civil Service Reform. The Borrower shall also appoint and maintain
until completion of the Project, the Chairman of the Retrenchment
and Redeployment Task Force and the resident adviser to the LART
Administrator.
6.    (a)   The Borrower shall jointly with the Association carry
out by September 30, 1995, a mid-term review of the Project. Such
review shall, inter alia, serve as a basis for the Borrower to
assess:
(i)    the  objectives  and  impact  of  the  Project
components  in   the  light   of  the   general
macroeconomic situation in Tanzania;
(ii)    the need to initiate needed corrective measures
to improve the effectiveness of the Project
component ;
(iii)   whether the project's overall objectives are
achievable   given  the   available  time   and
resources, and whether the relationship between
objectives, outputs, activities and inputs are
consistent;
(iv)    the medium and longer term sustainability of the
project;
(v)   whether the present subcontracting arrangements
are appropriate for effective execution of the
Project;


﻿- 20 -
(vi)    the  project   implementation   and   operation
performance;
(vii)    compliance with key monitoring indicators;
(viii)    the quality and timeliness of the implementation
of the Project in the light of the immediate
objectives, inputs and activities; and
(ix)    the quality and timeliness of monitoring and
back-stopping by all parties.
(b)   In carrying out its review, the Borrower will have
particular regard to the role of the Project in assisting the
Borrower to address major priorities with which it will be concerned
in the fields of economic and financial management. These include:
(i)    the formulation and management of economic and
financial reform and restructuring measures
including  work   on  macroeconomic   framework
analysis;
(ii)    staff development and training programs; and
(iii)    the  development  of  financial  and  economic
information system, and the enhancement of the
statistical data base.
(c)   At least two months prior to such review, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report on the above.
(d)   Promptly after the completion of the mid-term review
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
take all necessary actions to implement recommendations emanating
from such review.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a)
through (c) for Specia. Account A, and Categories (2) (a) through
(c) and (3) (a) through (c) for Special Account B set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the  term   "Authorized  Allocation"  means   amounts
equivalent to $1,000,000 for Special Account A and $500,000 for
Special Account B, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account concerned pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account concerned such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of tie Special Accounts, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Accounts
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 22 -
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment  or  payments   in  respect  of  which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
concerned such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been paid
out of the Special Account concerned for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3  of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn    amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.


﻿- 23 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account concerned as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association way request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
concerned (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into
the Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall hav: determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


