                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank



                                                          Report No: ICR00002030


              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-57598 TF-57599)

                                           ON A

                                          GRANT



                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7 MILLION

                                          TO THE



                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
  SOCIETE DES EAUX ET D’ELECTRICITE DU NORD, LYONNAISE DES EAUX DE
CASABLANCA, REGIE AUTONOME DE DISTRIBUTION D’EAU ET D’ELECTRICITE DE
                               MEKNES

                                          FOR AN



       IMPROVED ACCESS TO WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT




                                        June 29, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2011)

             Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham
                   MAD 1.00 = US$0.12
                   US$ 1.00 = MAD8.60

                      FISCAL YEAR

                      July 1 - June 30


           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
DFID    UK Department For International Development
DPL     Development Policy Loan
GA      Grant Agreement
GoM     Government of Morocco
GPOBA   Global Partnership Output-Based Aid
ICRR    Implementation and Completion Results Report
INDH    National Initiative for Human Development
ISR     Implementation Status and Results
IVA     Independent Verification Agent
KPI     Key Performance Indicators
LYDEC   Lyonnaise des Eaux de Casablanca
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MAD     Moroccan Dirham
MENA    Middle East and North Africa
MFP     Ministry of Finance and Privatization
MoI     Ministry of Interior
MTR     Mid-Term Review
OBA     Output-Based Aid
OM      Operations Manual
PACD    Project Appraisal Commitment Document
PCR     Project Completion Report
PDO     Project Development Objective
PNRD    Programme National de Rattrapage de la Desserte
PPP     Public Private Partnership
RADEM   Régie Autonome de Distribution d’Eau et d’Electricité de
        Meknès
RF      Results Framework
SEEN    Société des Eaux et de l’Electricité du Nord
USD     US Dollar
      Vice President: Inger Andersen
    Country Director: Simon Gray
     Sector Manager: Francis Ato Brown
Project Team Leader: Xavier Chauvot de Beauchene
   ICR Team Leader: Fatiha Amar
 
                                                   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

         IMPROVED ACCESS TO WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT


                                                                CONTENTS



Data Sheet


A. Basic Information ............................................................................................................ i 
B. Key Dates ........................................................................................................................ i 
C. Ratings Summary ............................................................................................................ i 
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ ii 
E. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... ii 
F. Results Framework Analysis .......................................................................................... ii 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ....................................................................... iv 
H. Restructuring (if any) ..................................................................................................... v 
I. Disbursement Profile ...................................................................................................... v 

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5 
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 14 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 21 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 21 
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 24 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors................... 25 

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 27 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 27 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 31 
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 33 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 35 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 41 
Annex 7. Summary of the Recipients’ ICR ...................................................................... 42 
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 45 
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 46 

Non-Bank MAPs
 
    A. Basic Information
                                                                               Morocco Urban WS&S
Country:                   Morocco                   Project Name:
                                                                               Access Pilots
Project ID:                P102527                   L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-57598,TF-57599
ICR Date:                  06/29/2012                ICR Type: ILI             Core ICR
    Lending Instrument:    SIL                       Grantee:                  Government of Morocco
Original Total
                           USD 7.00M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 7.00M
Commitment:
    Revised Amount:        USD 7.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Lyonnaise des Eaux de Casablanca
Régie Autonome de Distribution d’Eau et d’Electricité de Meknès
Société des Eaux et de l’Electricité du Nord
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                      Revised / Actual
         Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                          Date(s)
    Concept Review:        07/11/2005    Effectiveness:              01/30/2007           01/30/2007
                                                                                          12/30/2009
    Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
                                                                                          12/21/2010
    Approval:              01/29/2007    Mid-term Review:
                                         Closing:                    12/31/2009           12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
    Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
    Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
    Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
    Grantee Performance:                             Satisfactory
i




C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                    Ratings            Borrower                           Ratings
Quality at Entry:        Satisfactory          Government:                     Satisfactory
                                               Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                           Satisfactory
                                               Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
                         Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
Performance:                                   Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                             QAG Assessments (if
                                Indicators                                               Rating
      Performance                                       any)
 Potential Problem Project at
                              No                       Quality at Entry (QEA): None
any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any time                           Quality of Supervision
                             No                                               None
(Yes/No):                                              (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                       Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sewerage                                                                50                      50
Water supply                                                            50                      50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Urban services and housing for the poor                                  100                    100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                            At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:              Inger Andersen                         Daniela Gressani
Country Director:            Neil Simon M. Gray                     Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:              Francis Ato Brown                      Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan
Project Team Leader:         Xavier Chauvot De Beauchene            Pier Francesco Mantovani
ICR Team Leader:             Fatiha Amar
ICR Primary Author:          Fatiha Amar


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to provide sustainable access to combined water and sewerage
services to peri-urban "quartiers"' with high levels of "vulnerable" households, i.e. with household
incomes falling under 295 US$/month (150% of the poverty line of Dh 1687) or about
US$60/cap/month.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.




                                                  ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                          Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised Target
                                                  approval                          Completion or
                                                                      Values
                                                 documents)                          Target Years
                  Number of water and sewerage connections made (total number of beneficiary
Indicator 1 :
                  households)
Value
                                                                   10,421
quantitative or   0                           12,025 connections                       11,147 connections
                                                                   connections
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/01/2006                  12/31/2009            12/31/2010         03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achievement exceeded revised target value by 7%.
achievement)
                  Number of people in urban areas provided with access to improved sanitation under the
Indicator 2:
                  project
Value
quantitative or   0                           10,213 people        47,390 people       47,895 people
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/01/2006                  12/31/2010            12/31/2010         03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achievement exceeded revised target value by 1%.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                            Actual Value
                                                                      Formally
                                                 Values (from                              Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised Target
                                                   approval                               Completion or
                                                                        Values
                                                 documents)                               Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Uptake by Beneficiary households per operator and eligible area
                                                                                       Casablanca:
                                                                   Casablanca:         (Lahraouine) 63%
                                              Casablanca: 80%
Value                                                              80%                 (Lamkensa) 73%
                                              Meknes:    90%
(quantitative                  0                                   Meknes: 90%         Meknes:       n/a
                                              Tangiers: 85%
or Qualitative)                                                    Tangiers:85%        Tangiers:   93%


Date achieved     06/01/2006                  12/31/2009            12/31/2010         03/31/2011
Comments
                  The latest values were not recorded. However, survey results confirmed the attainment of
(incl. %
                  this IOI.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Average monthly consumption per Beneficiary
                                                                   indicative target   Casablanca:
                                              indicative target is
                                                                   is 40l/             (Lahraouine) 10m3
                                              40l/
Value                                                              day/person,         (Lamkensa) 6.2m3
                                              day/person,
(quantitative     No piped service provided                        translates to
                                              translates into 6
or Qualitative)                                                    6 m3/mo in a 5-     Meknes urban: 9.2m3
                                              m3/mo in a 5-person
                                                                   person              Tangiers: 10m3
                                              household
                                                                   household
Date achieved     06/01/2006                  12/31/2009           12/31/2010          03/31/2011
                                                  iii
Comments
(incl. %          IO achieved (100%)
achievement)
Indicator 3:      Average consumption bill per beneficiary household
                                             Casablanca:
                                             (Lahraouine) 54Dh
Value                                                             Information, no Information, no target
                                             (Lamkensa) 30Dh
(quantitative     no service                                      target          Value
                                             Meknes urban:
or Qualitative)                                                   value
                                             Tangiers:     10m3

Date achieved     06/01/2006                    12/31/2009           12/31/2010       03/31/2011
Comments
                  No target value was established for this IO, rather information was provided by the
(incl. %
                  Implementing agencies.
achievement)
                  Collection ratio for consumption bills per operator, and to the extent possible collection
Indicator 4:
                  ratio of connection fees
Value             0% (no service)              Collection ratio in Collection ratio Consumption bills
(quantitative                                  project areas equal in project areas Casablanca
or Qualitative)                                or superior to the     equal or         Lahraouiyine: 99%
                                               operator's average superior to the Casablanca
                                               collection ratio       operator's       Lamkensa: 96%
                                                                      average          Meknes: 99% (Feb.
                                                                      collection ratio 28, 2010)
                                                                                       Tangiers: 90% (from
                                                                                       79% to 96%
                                                                                       depending on area)

                                                                                      Connection fee
                                                                                      monthly payment
                                                                                      Casablanca:
                                                                                      -Lahraouiyne: 93%
                                                                                      -Lamkensa: 96%
                                                                                      Meknes: 61%
Date achieved     06/01/2006                    12/31/2009           12/31/2010       06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Achievement recorded as of June 30, 2010.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

           Date ISR                                                                  Actual Disbursements
 No.                                 DO                             IP
           Archived                                                                     (USD millions)
  1       12/11/2008             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        1.14
  2       12/30/2009             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                 2.12
  3       03/16/2010             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                 2.12
  4       10/31/2010             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        2.77
  5       06/26/2011             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        6.37
  6       01/11/2012             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        6.99




                                                   iv
H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                Restructuring in    Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                            USD millions
  12/30/2009                  S      MS           2.12
  12/21/2010                  S       S           3.18


I. Disbursement Profile




                                        v
 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

This operation was appraised in 2006 at the time when the Government of Morocco had engaged
into comprehensive reform of the water sector focusing on improving integrated water resources
management. In 2005, Morocco had good water infrastructure assets and potable water reached
almost all urban residents. The Joint Monitoring Program for monitoring the achievement of the
Millennium Development Goals reported that 97 percent of the urban population had access to
improved water services. Of those who had access to improved water supply services, 86 percent
had access to pipe-borne water in 2005. Access to improved sanitation services lagged behind that
of water supply as 83 percent of the urban population had access to improved sanitation. The
figures for the poor urban and peri-urban1 areas are much lower and characterized by intermittent
services and higher costs for alternative supplies.

The challenge for the water and sanitation sector in Morocco was to improve service access and
efficiency at an affordable cost to beneficiary households. The connection fee to access piped
services is priced at about the marginal cost of service extension. As poor and vulnerable
settlements often are located far from existing networks, this cost is unaffordable to them, despite
facilities provided for them to pay over time, through the water bill. Improving access to basic
infrastructure services and tackling housing shortages became a high priority for the Government.
Following the 2002 parliamentary elections, the Government’s priorities were to reduce
unemployment and pay special attention to the vulnerable social segments through accelerated
growth. In May 2005, the King ordered the government to prepare the National Initiative for
Human Development (INDH) to fight poverty by improving the dire living conditions in urban and
peri-urban informal settlements and rural communities. The INDH program was a clear political
commitment to extend access to selected areas across all administrative levels regardless of their
land tenure status. This orientation was a clear shift from earlier policies towards those segments
of the population which imposed regulation, rehabilitation and resettlement as conditions for
providing improved basic services. In addition, the Government’s Cities without Slums program
(VSB) succeeded in mobilizing elected officials and authorities at all levels to recognize and agree
to upgrade those informal settlements.

Those initiatives provided a strong drive for municipalities and utility companies to explore
mechanisms, such as reduced connections fees, to expand access to basic infrastructure in INDH-
identified poor peri-urban settlements. Moreover, Morocco benefits from the presence of
professional operators, public (régies) and private (concessionaires) which are providing a good
quality service. All these factors contributed to creating an environment conducive to extending
basic services to poor and informal settlements.

It was in this context that the Government and the operators in Casablanca, Meknes, and Tangiers
jointly requested a Grant from the Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid (GPOBA), a
multidonor trust fund administered by the World Bank, to pilot the introduction of performance-
based subsidies to facilitate access to water and sanitation services to the poor. Since 2006, the


1
  Peri-urban refers to all settlements found at cities’ outskirts−whether structured in city quarters or hamlets, legal or not−and consist of hamlets in
urban communes presenting characteristics of rural areas.
                                                                         1
GPOBA has been developing an OBA subsidy scheme with the objective of building a strong
portfolio of pilot projects. The Pilot2 in Morocco is one of the early ones funded by the GPOBA. It
is groundbreaking in many aspects. It is the first to use an OBA approach for both, the water and
sanitation sectors, the first to be implemented in the MENA Region, the first to involve a public
utility and the first to disburse in local currency.

The proposed Pilot offered not only an opportunity to facilitate access to service and pilot a new
approach but also gave financial incentives to the utility companies to connect households in
informal low-income areas. Moreover, the project would have a direct impact on the beneficiaries
who would benefit from immediate access to water and sewerage services. It was given a renewed
impetus by the INDH/VSB programs as there was already then a high potential for scaling up the
Output-based Aid (OBA) mechanism in Casablanca and Tangiers, and for assessing the extension
of the approach to other major cities. At the time, initial discussions highlighted a significant
interest to scale up an OBA subsidy program that could enhance reforms in the financing of the
water and sewerage sector. The piloting of the approach and the opportunity for its replication
were made objectives of its sector wide reform, supported by the World Bank water sector
Development Policy Loan (DPL).

It is worth noting that while this report refers to the OBA Pilot as being implemented as part of the
“INDH programs,? it is a completely independent approach to the nationwide Community Driven
Development program called INDH. The World Bank DPL supported the first phase of this
important program. “INDH programs? in this document refer to social connection programs
promoted by the Ministry of Interior (line Ministry for the Recipient utilities) for extensions of
water and sanitation services by the utilities in areas located within the INDH coverage areas and
in accordance with the objectives of the INDH. These programs were neither processed through
the INDH institutional arrangements, nor were they funded by the INDH. They were implemented
by water and sanitation utilities directly, in coordination with INDH local commissions for synergy
and problem solving purposes. Albeit small in amount, the OBA pilots played a critical role in the
successful implementation of the INDH social connection programs as each implementing utility
adopted its implementation arrangements for the execution of their respective INDH program.

The Pilot project tested four different approaches: (i) passing performance risks from national
governments to a Public Private Partnership (PPP) between private firms and municipalities, with
both parties bearing the risks for non performance, (ii) easing the administrative constraints
otherwise faced by the users if they have to request a connection individually, (iii) experimenting
with the implementation of an OBA approach by a public utility to facilitate the provision of
improved services, and (iv) contributing to the successful implementation of the INDH program.

The Pilot was fully aligned with the priorities set forth in the Bank Country Assistance Strategy
(2005-2009 CAS), which identified “increased access to basic services to poor and marginalized
groups? as its second pillar and “improved water management and access to water and sanitation?
as its fourth pillar.




2
    “Pilot? refers to the three pilots in the three cities, while ‘pilot? refers to each individual project in Meknes, Casablanca, and Tangiers.


                                                                            2
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

As set forth in the Grant Agreement (GA), the objective of the Project was to promote, following
an output-based approach, the connection to water and sanitation services of about 11,300 low
income households in disadvantaged peri-urban and rural INDH neighborhoods in the urban
centers of Casablanca, Tangiers and Meknes.

Yet, the Project Appraisal Commitment Document (PACD) defines the Project Development
Objective (PDO) as to provide sustainable access to combined water and sewerage services to
peri-urban “quartiers? with high levels of “vulnerable? households, i.e. with households incomes
falling under 295 US$/month (150% of the poverty line of Dh 1687) or about US$60/cap/month.
The project will benefit 11,300 households (56,000 inhabitants).

The operation established eight Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) as follows3:

       (1) Number of connections made;
       (2) Total number of beneficiary households;
       (3) Annual reports on service quality (as required under the applicable regulatory regime);
       (4) Average monthly consumption per beneficiary household;
       (5) Average residential tariff per beneficiary household (no target value set);
       (6) Total project costs as per actual incurred expenditures (breakdown into components) (no
           target value set);
       (7) Actual project costs per beneficiary household or per connection and discrepancies with
           projections (no target value set); and
       (8) Collection rate in OBA pilot areas and discrepancies with operators’ total percentage equal
           or superior to operator’s average collection ratio.

The three operators were also requested to collect additional information aimed at enhancing the
project monitoring, such as:

        Average expenditure on service per beneficiary household (as a percentage of total
         household expenditure);
        Average household expenditure on alternative sources of water to the project based on
         information provided by households.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO remained unchanged throughout the implementation of the project. However, OBA KPIs
were revised during the Mid-Term Review (MTR). The KPIs and the required information from
the operators, as outlined in the original and the improved Operations Manual (OM),4 were:




3
    Operations Manual, 2007
4
    Revised Operations Manual dated October 23, 2008
                                                       3
                                Table 1: Original and Revised Key Indicators
 Original Key Indicators                             Revised Key Indicators
 Number of connections made                          Number of connections made
 Total number of beneficiary households              Number of beneficiary households
 Annual reports on service quality (as required      Uptake by beneficiary households per operator and eligible
 under the applicable regulatory regime)             area
 Average monthly consumption per Beneficiary         Average monthly consumption per Beneficiary household
 household
 Average residential tariff per beneficiary          Average residential monthly consumption bill per beneficiary
 household                                           household

 Total project costs as per actual incurred          (moved to additional information)
 expenditures (breakdown into components)

 Actual project costs per beneficiary household or   (moved to additional information)
 per connection and discrepancies with project

 Collection ratio in OBA pilot areas and             Collection ratio for consumption bills per operator, and to the
 discrepancies with operators’ total percentage      extent possible collection ratio of connection fees in the OBA
                                                     pilot areas and discrepancies with operators’ total percentage

                         Additional Monitoring Information to be provided by Utilities
 Original indicator                                New indicator
 Average expenditure on service per beneficiary Average expenditure on service per beneficiary household (as
 household (as a percentage of total household a percentage of total household expenditure)
 expenditure)
 Average household expenditure on alternative Average household expenditure on alternative sources of
 sources of water to the project based on water to the project based on information provided by
 information provided by households                households
                                                   Total project costs as per actual incurred expenditures
                                                   (breakdown into components)
                                                   Actual project costs per beneficiary household or per
                                                   connection and discrepancies with project



1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The Grant’s recipients were the Kingdom of Morocco, the Société des Eaux et de l’Electricité du
Nord (SEEN), Lyonnaise des Eaux de Casablanca (LYDEC), Régie Autonome de Distribution
d’Eau et d’Electricité de Meknès (RADEM). The direct beneficiaries of the project were the
11,300 low income households selected in the disadvantaged peri-urban and rural INDH
neighborhoods in the centers of Casablanca, Tangiers and Meknes getting connected to piped-
borne water and sewerage services.

1.5 Original Components

The Grant Agreement does not reflect the project components, yet the PACD lists a number of
components under their respective implementation arrangements sections, the results of which are
outlined in Annex 2.

Component 1: Assessment of demand for connections and marketing/outreach efforts to sign
up households for subsidized social connections by all utility companies through undertaking
market surveys and providing GPOBA with demand projections. It also involved: i) carrying out

                                                      4
marketing activities to promote the terms of the subsidized connection program to sign up
households to their respective programs, ii) submitting semi-annual updates on the projections, iii)
assessing the discrepancies and actual sign-up with projections, and iv) devising a proposal for a
new action plan to mobilize lagging customer demand.

Component 2: Management and implementation of works as required for establishing
functioning household connections as substantiated by the participating operators’ established
track record in planning, overseeing and executing the extension of water and sewerage networks
and providing water and sanitation services. That included pre-financing of all works and
household connection fees by the operators, the design and construction of facilities required to
allow access to services to households who had to sign up for social connections, and the strict
compliance with the procurement policies in place, as found acceptable by the World Bank.

Component 3: Monitoring and household certification of output (active social connections)
by all participating utility providers which connected beneficiary households to the network, and
for each connection, collected connection certificates signed by the same beneficiaries who
confirmed that they were connected in accordance with the applicable rules, regulations, and terms
of social connections. The recipients were also required to submit semi-annual summary reports
reflecting the number of households connected per reporting period, the location of the households
within the INDH settlements, the billing and payment documents, in addition to retaining the
original documents for audit purposes at the request of the Ministry of Interior (MoI) and the
World Bank.

Component 4: Provision of ongoing service by all utility providers would be guaranteed by their
proven record for the provision of water and sewerage services and under a well-established
regulatory framework. That involved the provision of service to households according to
applicable regulatory provisions and the households’ obligation to pay tariffs for consumption,
while enjoying the rights and assuming obligations as per the relevant regulations on quality of
service and tariffs.

1.6 Revised Components

The number and description of the components remained unchanged throughout the
implementation of the operation.


1.7 Other significant changes

There were no significant changes in the design, scope and scale, the implementation arrangements,
or the funding.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Because the funds made available through the GPOBA covered only a portion of the financial
costs to extend access to water and sewerage services to the low-income population located in the
INDH-identified areas, it was crucial to determine the amount of subsidy, and its allocation among
the three cities upfront so as to optimize the number of households to be connected.

                                               5
Project preparation and design. Project preparation spanned over a period of 18 months from the
date of the concept note, to the provision of applications by the Bank to the operators in June 2005,
and the signing of the Grant Agreement in January 2007. The time allocated to the preparation
was appropriate as the design and the needed institutional arrangements had to be carefully vetted
and examined. The operation identified a comprehensive OBA mechanism and helped the
Government establish an enabling institutional and regulatory framework to ensure a transparent
and effective allocation of grant proceeds in the three cities and to administer the disbursement of
funds. The preparation included:
          assessing the capital expenditures and subsidies to ensure that the agreed capital
           expenditures for water supply and sanitation were consistent with a number of global
           benchmarks and estimates5;
          estimating the subsidy based on geographical targeting and sizing it carefully to reflect
           household beneficiaries’ ability and willingness to pay;
          an assessment by each operator of their evaluation of the investment costs and subsidy
           needs which were examined in details by the consulting firm6 contracted out to propose
           feasible design and implementation arrangements for the pilots. The recommendations of
           the consulting firm were deemed feasible and adopted as a basis for the design of the pilots,
           as reflected in the PACD.
          Identifying operators’ legal obligations as stipulated in the GA, namely: (i) implementing
           the project and preparing quarterly output reports, (ii) selecting beneficiary households in
           accordance with the eligibility criteria as set forth in the OM, (iii) guaranteeing quality of
           service standards in accordance with the provisions of the relevant Concession Contract or
           RADEM’s Service Agreement (“cahier des charges?), (iv) retaining all documents
           attesting to the eligibility of connected beneficiary households and the quality of service,
           and (iv) monitoring project outputs in compliance with the OM’s provisions.

                  Table 2. Total GPOBA Subsidy Requirements at Project Preparation and Closing
                                            GPOBA Subsidy allocation at appraisal7
                                        Casablanca  Tangiers                                          Meknes
                                                                             Urban                                  Rural
    Total adjusted capital                  2,035        3,044               1,931                                   799
    expenditure in (US$) per
    water/sewerage connection

    Total GPOBA unit subsidy                  563*                   700*              1,027                         591
    requirement (% of total                  (28%)                  (23%)              (53%)                        (74%)
    adjusted capital
    expenditures)
*Simultaneous connection to water supply and sanitation services.


Lessons learned. The PACD did not list any lessons learned from previous OBA operations as
that was the first OBA operation in the MENA Region, but instead modeled the approach by:

          Bringing in OBA core principles among them, transparency, accountability for results,
           private sector participation, innovation, efficiency, and sustainability which were all
           directly linked to the project objective;



5
 World Water Council: Costing MDG Target 10 on Water and Sanitation: Comparative Analysis, Obstacles and Recommendations, March 26.
6
 Infrastructure Development Consultants, IDC 2006, Page 8.
7 As reflected in the PADC
                                                                    6
           Relying on strong institutions to implement the pilots to enhance the chances of achieving
            the development objective namely LYDEC, SEEN (commercially known as AMENDIS)
            and RADEM, in promoting, with the participation of civil society and other stakeholders,
            awareness of the subsidized water and sanitation connection plan to the disadvantaged
            segments of the populations located in INDH settlements;
           Undertaking preparatory work to reduce the number of non participating households by
            identifying factors preventing those households from participating in the programs, through
            economic studies;
           Promoting social connection programs by allocating adequate resources to the financial and
            human resources to the awareness-raising campaigns.

The pilot offered the GPOBA an opportunity to test a new approach whereby performance risks
were jointly borne by both the private and the public sectors. The approach also offered an
opportunity to test a new financing mechanism to give access to sanitation to the poor in the
MENA Region and disburse in local currency. By selecting RADEM (a public sector utility
provider) as one of the grant recipients, GPOBA’s funds were for the first time, transferred to a
public utility provider to foster the provision of water and sanitation services to underserved
segments of the population in Morocco. This novelty which assigned performance risks to both the
municipalities and the private sector, coupled with an emphasis on output triggered the GoM’s
interest in scaling up the OBA approach nationwide since it resulted in the delivery of a more
sustainable service.

Risks. The risk appraised at project preparation was rated low because of the strong capacities of
the implementing agencies. The satisfactory outcome of a fiduciary assessment which included an
evaluation of procurement and financial management was a condition of their participation in the
Pilot and the signing of the GA.

2.2 Implementation

The three pilots were coordinated and administered by the Ministry of Interior (MoI) through the
Direction des Régies et des Services Concédés and implemented by the three water providers, in
accordance with the provisions of both the OM and the GA8. Two of the three pilots’ promoters
were subsidiaries of financially sound international water companies and the third one was a public
sector utility provider (“Régie?). Those were: (i) Lyonnaise des Eaux de Casablanca (LYDEC), (ii)
Société des Eaux et d’Electricité du Nord – also known as AMENDIS, and (iii) Régie Autonome de
Distribution d’Eau et d’Electricité de Meknès (RADEM), respectively.

The first year of the project was marked by slow implementation progress. Most of the factors
contributing to delays were not specific to the OBA approach, but linked to the implementation of
the INDH program. They were caused by:

           Difficulties in meeting the beneficiary households criteria as set forth in the OM, including
            obtaining authorization for connections from the local authorities and the municipalities;
           Time needed to approve the lists of eligible beneficiaries (mostly in Casablanca);
           Issues related to works to be completed by third parties (such as Al-Omrane), as LYDEC
            had to wait for Al-Omrane to finalize the off-site sanitation works before starting to
            connect households to water and sewerage networks.


8
    Schedule 2
                                                    7
          The Bank procurement team refusing that operators use framework contracts for more than
           three years, which forced RADEM to procure dedicated contracts after appraisal, delaying
           the start of the network extension works, in Meknes, by almost one year.

At Mid-Term review, the project team hired a consulting firm 9 to independently assess the
progress of the project and to further explore the comparative advantage of the OBA approach.
The review found several factors accounted for the Pilot’s slow performance: (i) delays due to the
sequencing of works, since the operators had to finalize works before connecting people, (ii) issues
related to households’ precarious land tenure and limited legal status, specifically in Casablanca,
where restructuring, relocation and resettlement issues were significant, and prevented
beneficiaries from joining the social connection program, and (iii) low beneficiary households’
uptake rate at the beginning of the project. To remove the factors hindering implementation
progress, the team then introduced the following changes to the project design:
          revision of several important aspects of the original OM provisions, namely adjustment of
           the beneficiary households eligibility criteria as shown in Table 3, such as: (i) increasing
           the beneficiary households’ contribution in Tangiers to include a change in the VAT from
           14% to 20%, and (ii) clarifying the billing record needed to disburse 40% of the subsidy
           amount coupled with a change in the disbursement method (reimbursement instead of
           direct payment). These measures were aimed at refocusing the IVA’s review on
           satisfactory output provision, by limiting the original record keeping review requirements
           which translated into accelerating disbursement.
          introduction of the flexibility of the reporting rate, allowing quarterly or bi-annual progress
           reports and adapting IVA review frequency accordingly (15 days10 after the end of each
           reporting period);
          change of the submission date of the IVA’s progress reports;11
          amendment of the number of project performance indicators (refer to section 1.3);
          proposal of a new format to distinguish the connection unit cost;
          expanding the original geographic units (table 3);
           As reflected in Table 4, new areas were included because the utility providers had already
           completed the work in these areas and were ready to connect new households, as opposed
           to the originally selected areas where additional works had to be carried out which would
           have resulted in slowing down the project implementation. Each operator provided
           information about cost estimates and the number of potential beneficiaries in the additional
           areas, which were reviewed by the consultant firm which confirmed compatibility with the
           set unit subsidy amounts.
          mobilizing local authorities.
           All operators engaged in discussions with the local authorities (municipalities and
           communes) to identify suitable solutions to the sensitive and complex issue of land tenure
           and the approval of the list of eligible beneficiaries. Notwithstanding the fact that the
           consultation was pretty lengthy all parties involved managed to find the right solutions to
           land tenure matters as they related to households’ informal situation.
          proposing a new format to itemize the connection unit cost.




9
  IDC’s Mid-Term Review Report (October 2008).
10
   The initial requirement was 30 days.
11
   The IVA had to submit his report to the Bank and the MoI no later than 15 days following the date of his last review, instead of 6 weeks.
                                                                       8
        Table 3. Original and Revised OBA Beneficiary Households’ Eligibility Criteria per City




                           Table 4. Original and Revised OBA Targeted Areas per Operator
O p e ra t o r     O r i g in a l a n d a d d i ti o n a l O B A ta r g ete d a re a s                        A d d i ti o n a l O B A a r ea s a t
                                                                                                              M TR
C as ab l a nc a   L a h ra o u y i n e s (C o m m u n e )                                                    M ejj a ti a O u le d T a l e b
(L Y D E C )                        L a h ra o u y in e s N o r d                                                              ( M e d i o u na
                                    L a m k en s a S u d                                                                       P ro v i n ce )
                   B o u s k o u ra (C o m m u n e)                                                                            D o u a r L ah fa ri
                                    L a m k en s a N o rd                                                                      D o u a r H m a d at e
                                    L a m k en s a S u d                                                                       D o u a r B e l B aj i
                                                                                                              M a n s o u ri ( B e n s l i m a n e
                                                                                                              P r o v in ce )
                                                                                                                               D o u a r M ek k za z
T a n g ie rs      B e n i M a k a d a (C o m m u n e)              C h a r f-M o g h o g a (C o m m u n e)   B en i M a k a k a
(A M E N D IS                     D h ar A h aj j a m E l                         M o g h o g h a K eb i ra                    M er s A c h en n a d
                                  M e rs                                          1st Tr                                       M g h o g h a S g h i ra
                                  B e ni S a id                                   M o g h o g h a K eb i ra                    K d im a
                                  M 'R ab e t 1                                   2 nd T r                                     A o u a m a g ha rb i a
                                                                                  D h ar M e rs T an j a
                                                                                  B al i a
                                                                                  O u ed S an i a
                   T a n g er M éd in a
                                     M e s na n a In f éri eu r
                                     M e s na n a S up é ri eu r ( A + B )
M ek n e s         M e k n es                                                      D o u a r T ab a c
u rb a n                             D o u ar M o u s sa                           D oua r Add a
 (R A D E M )                        H ay I n ar a                                 O u i s l an e
                                     A t l a s B o u al am                         L ak t a ta re W afa
                                     T ao u ra
                   O u i s la n e                                                  D o u a r B a ya d         O uis la ne
                                     L a k t at ar e                               O u i s l an e                             O u i s l an e
                                     W af a
                                     Z i f er
M ek n e s         D k h i s sa
ru r al                              D k h is s a
(R A D E M )       D a r O u m S u l ta n e                         G aad a
                                     W i d ad                                      K a sb a t H a rt an e
                                     K afs
                   S i d i S l i m a n e M o u l K i fa n e         A it O u a ll a l
                                     D o u ar B en i                               L aa y o u n e
                                     M ’ G u il d


                                                                         9
Overall, those changes helped to accelerate the project implementation. Nevertheless the
implementation took more time than expected due to connection construction work which was
held up in both Tangiers and Meknes. In Casablanca, implementation was halted for over a year
because the utility was addressing challenges related to slum upgrading and land acquisition for
works to be carried out by Al Omrane. That development prevented the extension of services to an
additional 5,000 households in Lahraouiyine, the most important targeted neighborhood in the city.
The operators had to ensure that no land acquisition was required for the purpose of work and
construction activities to be carried out under the Project and no resettlement of local population
was envisaged. In the event that works and construction activities under the Project took place on
land owned by the municipalities or on rights of way granted to local communities, the operators
and the government had to ensure that the said works and activities complied with the provisions
of the Bank’s environmental and social policies and the environmental and social procedures set
forth in the OM.

Because of delays in implementation, the project’s closing date had to be extended twice with a
final closing date in December 2011. The first extension was critical to allow the full disbursement
of the grant proceeds and to achieve the Project’s objectives for each operator. Delays were most
significant in Casablanca and in Tangiers, where 61% of households were already connected to
water and sanitation, while the remaining connections were conditioned by works for trunk
infrastructure which fell under the responsibility of other agencies.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design. The MoI had the primary responsibility for monitoring
progress and results achieved by the operators, as summarized by the performance of the OBA key
indicators (listed in section 1.3) and their inclusion in the quarterly and bi-annual progress reports
to be submitted by the three operators to the MoI and the Bank. The Ministry of Finance and
Privatization (MFP), in consultation with the MoI, had to participate in the Pilot monitoring
through the Steering Committee.12 Moreover, the Pilot required a high level of monitoring, with a
set of indicators that focused on the overall performance of the pilots in terms of results and impact,
particularly with respect to the broader GPOBA objectives.

Design. The pilot M&E was a reflection of OBA’s requirement and the appointment of an external
auditor (IVA) was successfully adopted as a strong commitment to certify eligibility criteria and
review outputs enhanced transparency and traceability of results. However, the project lacked a
coherent Results Framework that better linked the outputs, outcomes and impacts of the project,
and furnished detailed information on the results of the pilots in each of the three cities. In addition,
some of the delays in implementation, such as obtaining authorization for connections from the
local authorities and the time needed for them to approve the lists of beneficiary households, could
have been better assessed.
The project provided for M&E to be conducted by both the utility provider and an Independent
Verification Agent (IVA). As part of their legal obligations, the three operators were required to
prepare quarterly and semi-annual output reports in relation to: (i) the selection of beneficiary
households in accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in the MO, and (ii) the guarantee of


12
   The Steering Committee was responsible for monitoring and coordinating the Project and was comprised of representatives of the MoI, including
MoI’s representatives already on RADEM’s Board of Directors, the MFP, the local contract administration units in Casablanca and Tangiers
monitoring the LYDEC and SEEN Concession Contracts, and other ministries participating in the Project.
                                                                   10
the quality of service standards, consistent with the provisions of both the Concession Contracts or
the public utility Service Agreement (“Cahier des charges?). Upon receipt of periodic progress
reports and the withdrawal applications submitted by the operators and prior to disbursing the
grant funds, the World Bank carried out verification missions to evaluate results in the field
through the hiring of an IVA, who conducted seventeen (17) supervision missions throughout the
life of the project. His responsibility was three-fold: (i) review, on a sample basis, at least 7% of
the connections for which the operator requested the payment of the first tranche of the subsidy -
60% of the applicable unit subsidy amount - using verifiable information (such as the number of
connections to potable water and sanitation installed, the number and location of beneficiary
households in the OBA areas, and satisfaction of the beneficiary households’ criteria), (ii) review,
on a sample basis, at least 7% of the connections for which the operator requested the payment of
the second tranche of the subsidy, corresponding to the remaining 40% based on a review of data
related to metering and billing in order to validate the provision of satisfactory service for at least
six months, and (iii) gather the lessons to be learned from the implementation of the Pilot, as well
as the identification of both issues and appropriate solutions for their resolution. Following the
review, the IVA prepared and submitted a report to the Bank on a quarterly basis,13 highlighting
both his findings and recommendations of payment amounts to each operator for the period.

Implementation and utilization of M&E. The set of indicators specified was appropriate in
measuring outputs, but less so with regards to tracking outcomes. The key performance indicators
were informally revised. However, this change is not reflected in the RF as the first ISR14 was
submitted after the project MTR. The PDO was tracked through the core indicator Number of
water and sewerage connections made (total of beneficiary households (ISR 1-4 2009-2010) and
(ISR 5-6 2011). Three additional core indicators were then introduced in the new ISR template to
include the number of new piped-borne household water connections resulting from the project as
well as the number of people in urban area provided with access to improved sanitation in each
city. Three intermediary indicators were also identified. One important deficiency to be noted in
the project results framework is that the categories of eligible expenditures were selected as
components. Yet, it is worth mentioning that the Results Framework recorded the number of
connections installed in the OBA areas and not the number of connections subsidized15. The
achievement of the PDO would be assessed on the basis of the number of connections installed
in the areas targeted by the three pilots. Table 5 presents the original project end targets and
achievements for both the core output indicators.




13
   During the MTR, the operators were given the choice to prepare reports on a quarterly or semi-annual basis. This choice determined the frequency
of the IVA’s visits.
14
   More attention to details should have been paid to the first ISR as the country name is Tunisia instead of Morocco.
15
   As per the latest figures reported by the team in the September 2011 Aide-Memoire , the total subsidized connections was: (i)Total water – 10,504,
(ii) total Sanitation – 9,036, and total number of people connected to water = 52,500 people, and total number of people connected to sanitation =
52,500 people
                                                                     11
                          Table 5: Project Development Objective Core Indicators (2009-2011)
                      Original         Revised          Revised          Achievements            End Target reported by        Achievements based
                      Target (ISR)     Target           Target           (Date of Total Grant    the operators                 on Operators’
                                       (ISR)            (ISR)            Funds Commitment)       at Project Closing            Closing reports


                      (12/30/2009      (12/31/2010)     (12/31/2001)     (03/31/2011)            (12/31/2011)                  (12/31/2011)
 PDO: Number of water and sewerage connections made (total of beneficiary households)
 Casablanca     6,218        6,218        5,782          5,622               6,213                                             6,751
 Meknes urban                                                                                                                  2,025 (total)
       Meknes   603          603          603            705                 1,811 (total)                                     n/a
       water                                                                       2,60                                              2,60
 Meknes         795                                      581                 794 (total)                                       n/a
sanitation
 Meknes rural   1,209        1,208        1,134          1,444               n/a                                               705 (total)
 Total Meknes   2,607        1,811        1,737          2,730               2,605                                             2,730
 Tangiers       3,200        3,200        2,902          3376                3,200                                             2,945

 TOTAL                12,025        11,229          10,421           11,728 (+1307) 12,018               12,426 (+ 408)
                      Comment: The original PDO mentioned 11,300 connections in 3 cities, but without any reference to the
                      particular results in each of the three cities.

 PDO Indicator: Number of people in urban areas provided with access to improved sanitation under the project
                      Original         Revised          Revised             Achievements         End Target reported by        Achievements based
                      Target (ISR)     Target           Target              03/31, 2011          the operators                 on operators’
                      (12/30/2009      (ISR)            (ISR)               (Date of Total       at Project Closing            closing reports
                                       (12/31/2010)     (12/31/2011)        Grant Funds          (December 31, 2011)           (12/31/2011)
                                                                            Commitment)
                      Not              10,213           47,390              47,895 (+ 505)       55,742                        60,000 (+4,258)
                      available



2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard. The pilot was classified as category “B.? Thus as required by Bank Operation Policy
OP 4.01, a partial environmental assessment was conducted as part of the preparation of the
project. The environmental assessment process was reviewed and found acceptable by the Bank.
For the most part, compliance with environmental and social safeguards was rated satisfactory.
These aspects were monitored closely throughout the life of the project and when deficiencies
were noted, they were acted upon by the utility providers as substantiated by the project
documentation (Aide-memoires, ISRs, quarterly and bi-annual reports, and IVA's reports).

Financial management. The financial management requirements for the project were for the most
part, rated moderately satisfactory since a large number of audit reports were usually received
after the due date. The reports were reviewed and were generally found satisfactory by the Bank.
Despite significant improvements, final audit reports were submitted with delays by utility
providers, not in compliance with the provisions of the GA16. Additionally, the operators’ financial
statements did not distinguish between costs related to ‘in-site? and “off-site? works and did not
single out the cost of the connection. Fulfilling that requirement proved to be a rather difficult task.
It was therefore agreed that the Bank would accept these combined costs, if costs associated with
the different types of works were still identified. The lack of insight regarding the precise



16
   The Grant recipients were supposed to ensure that financial unaudited financial reports for the project were prepared and furnished to the Bank, no
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
                                                                       12
connection cost was an issue that was insufficiently addressed as a properly targeted subsidy
policy was utterly dependent on having access to information on the cost of the connection.

Procurement. There were no serious procurement issues during the project implementation.
Throughout the life of the project, the operators did not always follow the Bank’s standard
procurement guidelines. Overall, procurement was rated moderately satisfactory, as the
procurement post review conducted in 2009 and the subsequent supervision missions revealed
moderate compliance ratios. Technical support was therefore required by the Bank during the
IVA’s missions and the supervision missions to better acquaint the operators with the requirements.
Consequently, training was organized for the operator with the lowest compliance ratio. The GA
provided for the procurement guidelines to follow in project design and implementation17 and did
not include provisions for contracts prior review. All contracts were, therefore, subject to post
review. It was noted that the operators followed the public procurement legislation for goods and
services which involved a two-stage bid opening in accordance with Decree 298.482, and did
adhere to it. To resolve these compliance issues, several solutions were explored, among them was
a request that the utility companies provide the Bank with a list of future contracts to be procured
and to submit any contract bidding process to the Bank for no objection, in addition to identifying
the costs for the connections installed. It is, however, important to reflect on the relevance of the
Bank’s procurement guidelines and their application in OBA projects. As pointed out by all
operators, unlike an investment lending operation, the GPOBA grant did not actually finance
contracts for goods or works, but subsidized connections to water and sanitation services and
linked the payment to the delivery of output following a verification based on predefined criteria
listed in both the GA and the OM. Consequently, observance of national procurement regulations
might have been sufficient to ensure the successful implementation of GPOBA projects.

Disbursement. There were delays as a result of the late submission of withdrawal applications for
the payment of the connections made prior to the signing of the GA, as confirmed by the
supervision mission of March 2007. The Bank had to reject payments requested by some operators
because the amount of the beneficiary household contribution18 exceeded the amount already set
forth in the OM which contributed to deterring households from participating in the social
connection program. Overall, because of the slow submission of disbursement requests by some
operators throughout the implementation of the Pilot, the performance of the operators was only
rated satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

At project closing, the OBA approach was seen as strategically relevant, especially as Morocco did
not have subsidy mechanisms targeted at poor households in informal settlements. Throughout the
project implementation, the Government19 expressed interest in expanding the approach as part of
the INDH program on a citywide or nationwide scale. The first discussions took place during the
MTR, which offered the ideal forum to share the findings of the consultant firm20 hired to assess
the potential for replication, the financing needs, the design, and the implementation arrangements



17
   According to the provisions of the Grant Agreement, all goods and works required for the project and to be financed by the proceeds of the Grant
were to be procured in accordance with the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits? published by the World Bank in May
2004
18
   The amount set forth in the OM was 100 Dh to be paid in 84 installments and RADEM applied the INDH rate of 130Dh, corresponding to a
difference of 1680 Dh per connection
19
   From Aide-Memoire dated (October-November 2007) onward
20
   Infrastructure Development Consultant (IDC)
                                                                     13
of a potential large scale project. The implementation results point to several issues that could
reduce the chances of replicating the Pilot on a larger scale, namely:

         the cost of the individual connection which proved to be difficult to single out by the
          operators making capital expenditures requirement rather impossible to assess;
         the subsidy targeting since the selected areas had different levels of poverty, hence the
          difficulty to determine the affordability of the beneficiary households and the accuracy of
          the tools used by the utility providers in targeting poverty.

The experience with the OBA approach was documented and disseminated through several media.
A documentary film was produced with the objective of generating interest within the donor
community with a view to building partnerships to finance the Government program. Other
dissemination activities, including numerous presentations to various Ministries in Morocco,
including the Ministries of Finance, Housing, General and Economic Affairs, and Interior, were
also undertaken and on Bank premises, through the Infoshop, on November 29, 2011.
Presentations have also been made to the UN thematic group on Water (2011). More recently, the
approach was showcased at the International Water Forum in Marrakesh, and Marseilles (2012). In
addition, the Pilots attracted the attention of the Bank’s management and in February 14, 2011, the
Middle East and North Africa (MENA) Region’s Vice President paid a visit to Lamkensa21 to meet
the grant’s beneficiaries to reinforce the Bank’s commitment to supporting Morocco in achieving
its social and development goals. It is worth mentioning that 2011 was an election year and the
new Government in place is not familiar with the OBA approach and its application in increasing
access to basic services to the poor. Consequently, additional dissemination activities have been
carried out in 2012 by the project team to spark greater involvement of the authorities in the much
needed implementation of the strategy to bridge the water and sanitation services gap in peri-urban
areas (PNRD22), which was finalized with the support of a GPOBA–funded TA activity.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The PDO was deemed relevant since it addressed the need for the Government of Morocco to
extend water supply and sewerage service to the poor and vulnerable communities, in accordance
with the spirit of the King’s National Initiative for Human Development (INDH). It was also
consistent with the Bank Assistance Strategy (2005-2009 CAS) which includes among its pillars
“increase access to basic services by poor and marginalized groups? and “service delivery to
citizens? (Country Partnership Strategy (2010-2013 CPS).

It is worth noting that implementation difficulties were resolved thanks to the commitment and the
extraordinary efforts of the implementing agencies in promoting, with the participation of civil
society and all stakeholders, awareness campaign of the importance of the subsidized water and
sanitation connection plan and therefore contributing to the achievement of the project outcomes.

Intermediary Output Indicators (IOI). The first IOI Uptake by beneficiary households per
operator and eligible areas was, based on the survey results, achieved in both Casablanca and
Tangiers. The information collected during the same period of time, also revealed higher than


21
   One of the urban areas in Casablanca which benefitted from the OBA subsidy
22
    Programme National de Rattrapage de la Desserte
                                                                   14
expected consumption levels. The accuracy of information recorded and related to the third IOI,
confirming the achievement of the second IOI (average monthly consumption per beneficiary) and
the accuracy of the information related to the third IOI (average consumption bill per beneficiary
household).

3.2. Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The objective (PDO) of the project was to promote, following an output-based approach, the
connection to water and sanitation services of about 11,300 low income beneficiary households of
Casablanca, Tangiers and Meknes in the territory of the Kingdom of Morocco, was achieved
based on the final core PDO indicator value of 12,426.

Assessment of the number of people connected to water and sewerage services using the average
size of households as determined at project preparation were to be considered, the final result
(60,000 people) attests to the attainment of the number of people benefiting from improved water
and sewerage services compared to the 56,000 people originally targeted by the PDO.

 Table 6. Connections Installed and Total of Approximate Number of People Connected at Project Closing
 Number of Connections Installed
               Target at     End Target        Revised End     Revised             Achievements     End Target       Achieve
               preparation   (ISR)             target (ISR)    Target (ISR)        (commitment      reported by      ments as
               PACD                                                                of total grant   the operators    reported
                                                                                   funds)                            by the
               (08/21/2006   (12/31/2009)      (12/31/2010)    (12/31/2011)        (March 31,                        operators
                                                                                   2011)
 Casablan      6,213         6,218             6,218           5,782               5,622            6,213            6,751
 ca                                                                                                                  (+538)
 Meknes        2,291         2,607             1,811           1,737               2,730            2,605            2,730
                                                                                                                     (+125)
 Tangiers      2,791         3,200             3,200           2,902               3,376            3,200            2,945 (-
                                                                                                                     255)
 TOTAL         11,295        12,025            11,229          10,421              11,728           12,018           12,426
 Number of People Connected per PACD’s Estimates
                                  Casablanca                            Tangiers                                Meknes
 Number people                                                                                      Urban            Rural
 per households                     (4.8)                                (4.8)                          (4.7)          (5.6)
 Number of                          6751                                 2945                           2025            705
 connections
 Total Number of People per City
                                  Casablanca                            Tangiers                             Meknes
                                                                                                    Urban         Rural
                                  32,404.80                            14,136.00                      9,517.50     3,948.00
 Total number of        ~60,000
 people targeted
 by the project

The project monitoring proved to be challenging throughout the implementation of the project,
largely due to the lack of attention from the operators to comply with the reporting requirement
even though the proposed reporting structure in place was, in theory, adequate. As this project was
designed as a pilot, the relatively inadequate results framework made it a lesser relevant tool to get
better insight into the sustainability of the services provided and the effectiveness of the subsidy
policy, beyond the monitoring of the connection rates. Regular IVA reports, additional screening
method introduced by some operators to select subsidies beneficiaries based on the characteristics

                                                          15
of the dwelling and the collection ratios above the operator’s average, both for consumption and
connection fees, are better indicators to monitor these aspects.

It is important to underline that the Pilot PDO was defined differently in the PACD which
provided not only the number of households to be connected to water and sewerage services, but
also the total number of people, their poverty level and location, and the level of sustainability of
the service. Yet, the PDO as per the Grant Agreement was met. The indicators measuring the
sustained level of services and the effectiveness of poverty targeting were, for the most part, not
included in the proposed set of monitoring indicators. Careful attention should have been paid to
the intermediate results indicators. However, the project team relied entirely on the information
communicated by the operators’ quarterly and semi-annual reports and tried its best to monitor
PDOs, as described in both the Pilot’s PACD and the GA. Additional indicators related to the
affordability, including “average household expenditures for water and sewerage services as
percentage of monthly household income? and “average household expenditures on alternative
water sources? were not indicators that could be easily or regularly measured as they required
verification through household surveys.

3.3 Efficiency

The economic and benefit assessment carried out at project preparation did not provide any details
on the methodology and assumptions used, and hence could not be replicated for this review. The
PACD anticipated a number of general economic benefits among them the convenience time
savings, but were never monitored throughout the project, mainly because of lack of information
(refer to Annex 3).

At first sight, the three implementing agencies were efficient in the amount of subsidies used as the
total number of connections to be financed out of grant proceeds of USD 7,000,000 facilitated the
financing of a total of 12,426 household connections, which was well above the 11,300 anticipated
at appraisal. Yet, it is important to highlight that the total subsidy amount in MAD made available
to the operators was fixed and depended heavily on the exchange rate fluctuations between the
MAD and the USD. Therefore the number of connections subsidized by the grant kept fluctuating
throughout the life of the project making the target value of 11,300 rather difficult to achieve.
Based on the final results and available data the project has been efficient in the use of the project
resources reflecting the operators’ commitment to install the highest number of connections
without requesting additional grant funds from the Bank.

       The actual subsidy provided. At project appraisal the required subsidy related to the
        connection cost was assessed to be the highest in Meknes, followed by Tangiers and
        Casablanca as other financing sources were made available to the private operators and/or
        connections costs were comparatively lower. The high subsidy needs in Meknes were
        explained by the limited availability of other financing sources other than the grant funds
        and the fairly small beneficiary households’ contribution. At project closing the number of
        connections the grant subsidized was lower than anticipated for all operators. These
        downward variations could be explained by exchange rate fluctuations between the
        Moroccan Dirham and the US dollar which contributed to shrinking the available funds
        and resulted in lowering the number of connections subsidized leaving no option to the
        operators but to use their own funds to meet the pilot PDO and install the required number
        of connections. Interestingly, at appraisal it was assumed that the highest per capita
        subsidies would be needed for Meknes, but they actually did not differ much from the

                                               16
               subsidy requirements in the other two towns even though both urban and rural populations
               were targeted in this city.

              The cost of works and connection installations in Casablanca and Meknes were claimed
              to be much higher by the two operators that provided this information. This assertion was
              substantiated by the available information, since the costs incurred by LYDEC seemed to
              be almost twice higher than expected, while AMENDIS’ seemed to have been
              appropriately determined since current costs are around 18% lower. These are large
              differences and are based on the costs provided by the operators and whether they were
              standardized across the different operators could not be confirmed. The risk for the project
              was minimal as the utility providers had to bear all additional expenses not covered by
              the grant to complete the works and successfully deliver the required number of
              connections. Yet, all operators pointed out that, the entire social program would reveal a
              risk of a financing gap, and as such the replication of the approach could be adversely
              affected until more details were provided about the actual cost of service provision in such
              areas.

           Table 7: Number of Connections Financed by the Grant Proceeds and Reported by the Operators
     Disbursement documented by Operators                                                      Disbursement as of end disbursement date23

                          Grant                   Number of                Subsidy per         ActualDisbursement     Actual Subsidy
                          allocation per          connections              connection          per operator           requirement per
                          operator                                         (estimates)                                connection
                          (estimates)
                          (USD)                                            (USD)               (USD)                  (USD)
     Casablanca           3,297,144.87            6,751                    488.39              3,499,918.13           518.43
     Meknes               1,487,046.02            2,730                    544.71              1,499,848.18           549.39
     Tangiers             1,879,456.19            2,945                    638.19              2,000,000              679.12

     Total                6,663,647.08                                                         6,999,766.31

                  Table 8: Subsidy requirements and cost of connection at appraisal and Project Closing
     Indicator                                                   Casablanca              Tangiers                       Meknes
                                                                                                              Urban         Rural
     Total subsidy requirement at appraisal                      563                     700                  1,027         591
     Subsidy requirement per connection at                       518                     679                  549
     project closing24
     Cost of connection per appraisal                            2,035                   3,044                1,931            799
     Cost of connection at project closing                       4,148                   2,826                n/a              n/a

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome of the project was rated satisfactory based on the level of achievement of the
PDO and the relevance of the project. It was also assessed based on the grant beneficiaries’
recognition of the tremendous economic, financial, and social benefits of the three pilots coupled
with a significant environmental impact.



23
     Exchange rate as of December 31,2011
24
     It is important to note that the USD equivalent varied over the project lifetime
                                                                          17
The project contributed to enhancing the operators’ reputation through a more collaborative
partnership with the communities targeted by the pilots, guaranteeing results through the OBA
innovative approach that promoted transparency and accountability. It also succeeded in increasing
competition between the three operators and fostering capacity building through the IVA’s
technical input and the compliance with stringent monitoring and reporting mechanisms.

The pilots have shown that a well-targeted subsidy combined with a financing mechanism that
fosters transparency and accountability for results can guarantee access to basic services for the
underserved segments of the population with tremendous impact on their lives. The pilots
succeeded in providing over 60,00025 people in the peri-urban “quartier? with access to water and
sewerage services. According to the survey findings, the alternative, as was the only option prior to
the project, would have been spending each day fetching water, with half of that time spent
queuing at standpipes, fetching water from a spring, or queuing to buy it, with all the health risks
associated with alternative water resources. More importantly, this operation has also shown that
people are ready to pay for water (as revealed by survey results), if access to water actually
translates into a direct and vital impact on the quality of their lives.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The pilot had a significant impact on the 12,426 households living in the poor peri-urban and
urban areas, who benefitted from the subsidy as access to water and sewerage services contributed
drastically to improving the quality of their lives. Another noteworthy aspect of the operation was
that the provision of water and sewerage services sparked an incredible economic development in
targeted areas of both Meknes and Tangiers, as the recently served areas with water and sewerage
services were transformed into bustling neighborhoods for all urban people. In Casablanca many
beneficiary households were newcomers who decided to move to Lamkensa because they could
actually own their homes as opposed to paying a high rent in other parts of the city. Equally, in
Tangiers people were moving from rural areas to the areas included in the pilots to search for
better job opportunities.

The project, however, fell short of fulfilling its indirect social impacts in relation to gender
equality. The anticipated positive social impact included greater autonomy for women as they
engage in income generating activities by utilizing the time previously spent fetching water. While
access to piped-borne water services helped free time for more productive activities (since the
children and the women did not have to spend time collecting water), the survey results revealed
that women were not necessarily engaging in income generating activities or using the additional
time more productively.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

A number of significant positive developments resulted from the implementation of the pilots as
documented by the IVA’s reports and the Aide-memoires, and validated by the discussions and the
surveys carried out by the Bank team, notably: (i) the adoption of organizational and
administrative structures developed and proposed by the IVA and implemented by the utility
providers which contributed to supporting them with the compliance of state audit requirements,
and (ii) the technical input and introduction of continuous improvement practices coupled with


25
     Calculation based on the household composition provided in the PACD
                                                                    18
knowledge shared by the IVA, which helped the utility providers perform better and adopt the best
technical practices.

Those were small but significant steps towards improving the institutional capacity of the
implementing agencies to ensure the successful achievement of the objective of the OBA Pilot and
the entire INDH program.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Interviews conducted with the operators and the beneficiaries validated the expected positive
economic results in both urban and rural areas and confirmed a striking reverse migration from
urban areas to rural Meknes, as people were actually moving to rural areas because of property
price appreciation in these newly developed neighborhoods. This new population would contribute
to increased demand for service, force the utility providers to plan for the future and consequently
exacerbate the funding issue.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey

Objective of the March 2012 evaluation. An independent ICRR team26 from the MENA Region
carried out a beneficiary survey from March 19-30, 2012, in the cities of Meknes, Casablanca, and
Tangiers. The objective of the evaluation was to collect data in order to assess the overall impact
of the project, record households’ level of satisfaction with the basic services provided by the three
operators, and hold discussions with the three utility providers to better capture results.

       I.    Indirect beneficiaries

The team held discussions with representatives from the utility providers in some areas targeted by
the pilots in Meknes first, then in Casablanca, and finally in Tangiers. The same team also met
with Veolia Environment representatives in Paris. The important feedback received from the
extensive consultations with the operators provided a wealth of information which has been
included in this ICRR to validate the key findings presented in this document. The key feedback
obtained is summarized below:

     (i)     Urgent need to identify new sources of financing to complete the remaining portion of the
             INDH program as the provision of water resulted in a much higher than anticipated demand
             for services in both Meknes and Tangiers.

 (ii)        Re-evaluation of some aspects of the OBA methodology. Observance of procurement
             guidelines were regarded by all as irrelevant to the particular context of the OBA approach.
             In addition, compliance with the OM requirements was found very challenging in terms of
             funding, time, and staffing.
(iii)        Greater collaboration with the commune. The involvement of the commune, at all stages
             of project implementation would be crucial to reducing delays and ensuring the quick




26
     ICRR team was composed of Fatiha Amar (Operations Analyst) and Malika Drissi (Consultant)


                                                                   19
       implementation of any future operation through the resolution of the core issue of land
       tenure.
(iv)   Banks’ contribution to the project. The significant contribution of the Bank in securing
       financing, providing a sound institutional framework, and a rigorous OBA methodology to
       achieve the expected results. All operators expressed their appreciation of the Bank’s
       collaborative efforts and for remaining flexible throughout the implementation.
(v)    Verification of outputs by the Independent Verification Agent (IVA). The IVA was
       regarded as very competent, meticulous and impartial in his assessment of the project. Still,
       the same feedback suggested some room for improvement with regard to the IVA’s scope
       of intervention and the proposed OM criteria originally established to guarantee proper
       evaluation.
(vi)   New demand generation. The operators succeeded in tapping into new market segments, in
       areas where the population could not previously benefit from basic services because of the
       high connection fee and because those settlements were not formally recognized as
       inhabited areas by the Moroccan authorities.

   II. Direct beneficiaries

Beneficiary household surveys were undertaken in the three cities and covered 9 of the 13
communes included in the pilots, namely: i) Meknes, Ouislane, Dar Oum Sultane, and Dkissa in
Meknes; ii) Bouskoura and Mejjatia Ouled Taleb in Casablanca; and iii) Charf-Moghogha, Tanger
Medina, and Beni Makada in Tangiers.

The following summarizes the findings of beneficiary household survey, which revealed a high
level of satisfaction with the utility providers’ services, except in urban Meknes (Douar Tabac),
and the tremendous impact on the quality of their lives. The results of the survey did, however,
reinforce the need to reassess the monthly contribution in some areas targeted by the pilot in
Meknes.

Beneficiary households’ contribution and willingness to pay

Households willingness to pay indicated mixed results. In Casablanca, the survey results
showed that the entire surveyed population highlighted the affordability of the connection and their
willingness to pay. In rural Meknes, all selected beneficiary households confirmed the affordability
of the connection fee and their willingness to pay for water only, mainly because sanitation was
not covered by the subsidy as well as not seen as a priority. In Tangiers, the majority of the
respondents emphasized the tremendous change in their lives and expressed a strong willingness to
pay because of the affordability and adequacy of the monthly contribution.

These results were not completely unexpected, as the monthly payments in the cities differed
significantly. Apart from the connection fee, consumers were expected to pay a monthly bill.
Meknes’s urban and Tangiers ended up with the highest monthly fees to be paid.




                                              20
                         Table 9. Total Household Expenditures for Water Consumption
                                 Meknes (MAD/month)         Tangiers (MAD/month)   Casablanca
                                                                                   (MAD/month)

 Water consumption               15-30                      20-97                  25-75

                                 Urban        Rural Water
                                 Water &      only
                                 Sanitation
 Beneficiary household
 monthly contribution            110          55            105.26                 30

 Total Consumption Bill          125-140      70-85         125.26-202.26          55-105


Service interruption. Overall, all interviewees in the three cities confirmed the quality and the
continuity of service, and pointed to periodic interruptions of service justified by either the need to
carry out works to improve or extend service, or because of irregular payments for services.

Alternative sources of water supply. Most beneficiaries confirmed that prior to having access to
basic services, they relied on standpipes (generally free to them – as billed to the commune), or
had to buy or fetch water from springs.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The risk of not achieving the development outcome was rated moderate. All operators were
carrying on with the works and the installation of new connections albeit anticipating the GoM to
scale up the approach. People in the INDH neighborhoods were still signing up for service, as
some of the key actions taken by the private operators included intensive awareness campaigns on
health risks associated with contaminated water, coupled with specific focus groups and
information sessions on the benefit of participating in the social programs. They were also
assisting the targeted population in preparing the required documentation, in addition to solving all
administrative issues. An aspect of the program that needed to be seriously considered was the
affordability of the monthly fee for the beneficiary households in urban Meknes as substantiated
by the data collected.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The project preparation extended over a period of 18 months and included feasibility studies
carried out by both the Bank and the three operators. The Bank team, in consultation with the MoI,
conducted extensive consultations with the potential implementing agencies to confirm the project
design and the OBA approach that was being proposed for the implementation of the three
operations.

                                                      21
It is, however, important to stress that better economic and cost benefit analysis would have
improved the ability to better quantify the results at project closing. The beneficiary assessment
has, nevertheless, contributed to remedying some of the shortcomings by providing additional data
to validate some of these tangible results. Yet, as pointed out previously, the lack of data on cost
and efficiency might need to be addressed, if the Pilot were to be scaled up.

Still, at project design, some of the delays in implementation such as repeated delays in securing
authorization for connections from the local municipalities and in succeeding in having the lists of
beneficiary households approved could have been reasonably foreseen and the time allocated to
the project implementation determined accordingly.

While the project was not flawless, it has made leaps and bounds operationally in terms of
providing the framework to guide future OBA operations27. Moreover, the assessment of the utility
providers’ commitment and ability to implement the three pilots was rightly estimated. Therefore,
the Bank’s preparation efforts, assessment of relevance, and project design were comprehensive
and realized with due diligence.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team carried out nine (9) supervision missions throughout the life of the project,
supplemented by seventeen (17) evaluation missions conducted by the IVA. There was
unquestionably close and responsive supervision from the Bank as required by the OBA approach.
The supervision was characterized by a close collaboration with local authorities and the three
implementing agencies.

The MTR was a turning point for all operators as it provided them with an opportunity to directly
raise issues related to the compliance with the OM criteria and to discuss the findings of the
independent review. The report reinforced the need to revise the original OM and identified a
number of factors hindering the implementation of the project. There was also a high level of input
from the Bank’s procurement, disbursement and legal staff throughout the project.

Similarly, all Aide-memoires attested to the right assessment and the documentation of all issues
which were conveyed in a candid and transparent manner to the GoM. Nevertheless, supervision
input related to M&E was neglected as the project team could have better monitored the results
indicators in the ISR results framework.

The fact that the disbursement of grant proceeds was conditional on achieving the expected results
was a guarantee that the Pilot implementation would be focused on results rather than inputs
(contracts). It is also worth mentioning that the quality of reporting and the IVA’s regular stringent
reviews were all factors that contributed to ensuring high performance on the part of all three
implementing agencies.




27
 The preparation of this Pilot led to the development of a Guidance Note entitled “Procurement Issues in Structuring Output-Based Aid (OBA)
Operations Financed by the World Bank - Guidance Note for Procurement Staff?, jointly issued, on April 11, 2008, by both GPOBA and
OPCPR.


                                                                 22
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team exercised good judgment in determining the right technical framework for the
OBA approach and in ensuring the active participation of the utility providers and by coordinating
with the relevant government counterparts and other stakeholders during project preparation. The
project team was also able to quickly identify the operational bottlenecks and propose appropriate
actions and solutions and was always responsive to the needs and challenges of the pilots’
implementers.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Government’s involvement in the pilot was significant from preparation to implementation
through the commitment and the sustained support to the Bank and the three pilot implementers,
which was always backed up by strong actions particularly in resolving land and administrative
issues. The performance of local authorities is rated as satisfactory on the basis of their strong
supporting role during project preparation and implementation in each city. Their assistance was
essential to guaranteeing the strong participation of all parties involved and to solving land tenure
matters and ensuring proper performance monitoring of the operators.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The three implementing agencies were the three operators, namely, RADEM in Meknes, LYDEC
in Casablanca, and AMENDIS in Tangiers. All utility providers faced different implementation
challenges, with LYDEC having to deal with the most acute problems related to land acquisition,
validation of lists of eligible beneficiaries and works to be carried out by third parties.

The main challenges faced by the pilots’ implementers were compliance with the reporting
requirements, primarily irregular submission of progress and audit reports as well as adhering to
Bank’s procurement guidelines. Their immediate attention to the project management contributed
to upgrading their performance to a higher rating. Safeguard-related aspects were also handled in a
satisfactory manner. The project resulted in a significant improvement of the environmental
conditions of the beneficiary households in the pilots targeted areas, thanks to the concrete
remedial actions taken by the three utility providers.

Overall, implementation was rated satisfactory as some of the operators managed to overcome
issues related to delays in delivering connections, but more importantly because two of the three
operators showed a higher level of performance by satisfying the PDO earlier than planned.




                                               23
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the grant recipients and implementing agencies was rated as satisfactory based
on their ability to overcome all issues resulting from the pilots’ implementation and for proposing
and implementing the needed remedial actions. Their efforts and their commitment to removing
operational bottlenecks and effectively implementing their respective pilot ensured the
achievement of the PDO. At project closing, compliance with provisions of Section 2.06 of the
Standard Conditions remained an issue. However, all three operators have submitted their
individual reports reflecting their assessment of the execution of their respective pilot.

6. Lessons Learned

A number of important key lessons emerged from the implementation of the pilots in the three
Moroccan cities which could offer the ideal framework for OBA future operations in the water and
sanitation sector, these are:

 Successful adoption of the OBA approach by a public utility provider. The experience in
Meknes revealed that the public sector could also bear the performance risk and that a public
utility provider could successfully adopt the OBA methodology to ensure the provision of basic
services to the neglected segments of the population.

 Organization of awareness and information campaigns was crucial to guaranteeing the
populations buy-in in the social program. Feedback received during the impact evaluation mission
suggested that operators needed to be present throughout the carrying out of works and that it was
imperative to spend time and allocate the necessary resources to ensure the involvement of the
potential beneficiary households in the social program.

 Revisiting the operators’ obligation to address all social issues and encourage the active
involvement of the local authorities. The resolution of land tenure issues relied heavily on local
authorities’ active involvement and their willingness to assist the three operators. A close
collaboration with the GoM was essential to accelerate project implementation. In addition, it is
important to recognize the primary role of the utility provider which was limited to service
provision and by no means included the task of tackling social issues which are the responsibilities
of the GoM.

 Addressing the poor in informal settlements relies on experience, mature knowledge and
adequate strategy on the part of the operators. Successful implementation of any project of this
nature could only be assured by utility providers with a proven track record of developing and
executing similar operations. All operators highlighted their readiness and their capacities in
implementing social programs. Still, they would continue to install connections as long as they
were able to compensate for the loss that could arise from the imposed obligation to fulfill social
service.

 Relevance of the compliance of Bank’s procurement policies. The adherence to national
procurement regulations should be sufficient to ensure the successful implementation of GPOBA
                                               24
projects. Especially, when the Bank provided guidance and input to the drafting of these national
policies.

 Monitoring and evaluation is key to achieving a rigorous framework to measure, report, and
amend especially to ensure successful replication of the Pilot. However, information collection
should solely aim at directly enhancing the project implementation capacity and its outcomes.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

n/a

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

n/a

Original financing arrangements28. Despite the fact that the right project design was chosen, the
financing arrangements and especially the impossibility to open an escrow account in Moroccan
Dirham (MAD), as recommended by the consulting firm to mitigate the potential impact of the
exchange rate fluctuations between the Dirham and the US Dollar on the number of connection the
grant could finance, had a direct influence on the overall project costs, particularly in Tangiers
where it resulted in a reduction of the initial grant amount allocation by MAD 2 millions.
Moreover, failure to introduce mechanisms to revise subsidy amounts such as pass-through criteria
proved an important factor in affecting the operators’ financial viability, since they had to bear the
additional unanticipated costs or variation costs of their respective pilots. The unit subsidy amount
per connection became disconnected to real costs over time, as commodity prices increased
sharply during the project implementation period, which was particularly felt by the operators, as
the highest number of connections were installed in the last two years, and as the USD/MAD
exchange rate variation reduced the number of connections the grant could subsidize.

Economic and social assessment. The project design involved both an economic and financial
assessment and the conduct of a socio-economic study. At the end of the project, a number of
beneficiary households surveyed in the urban areas of Meknes confessed to not being able to pay
the connection fee. While that issue could be attributable to an inaccurate evaluation of the
monthly households’ contribution in that particular city, the reasons could, however, be purely
financial. In fact, the inability to pay might also be directly linked to a change in employment. The
encouraging number of beneficiary households who signed up for the program in all cities
including, rural and urban areas in Meknes, and their willingness to pay, served to encourage local
authorities to take the necessary measures to eliminate current constraints contributing to slowing
down the implementation of the INDH program.




28
   IDC’s preparation report spelled out the financing arrangements which included the choice of a Moroccan Bank, an account denominated in
Dirham, and the account signatory.
                                                                   25
Results Framework. As revealed by the project documentation, the Results Framework (RF) was
not identified in the GA or the PACD. Instead an incoherent results framework was used to track
progress in the ISR, reflecting an incomplete measurement of the intermediary indicators even
after the introduction of the MTR amendments.

Reliability of the information. The different sources of information on which the pilots’
monitoring were based, could raise the question of the lack of accuracy and quality of data
recorded in the ISRs, as numbers listed as current end target values were infrequently updated
throughout the project implementation.

Data validation by the IVA. The IVA was instructed to verify data shared by the operators, based
on a representative sample of at least 7% of the number of connections for which they had
requested payment. He managed to identify a large number of issues mainly related to the
compliance of the eligibility criteria and forced the utility providers to act upon the deficiencies
noted by proposing suitable solutions as well as the best practice approach. However, the role of
the IVA went beyond the scope and the responsibilities originally defined in the OM as he
contributed to building the operators’ technical capacity and enhancing their organizational
structure through a set of recommendations immediately followed by the three utility providers.




                                              26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Grant Proceeds Allocations (in USD Million equivalent)

                            Amount Allocated Amount Allocated at    Actual/Latest Allocation
                              at Appraisal  Appraisal Estimate (USD Estimate (USD millions)
         Category            Estimate (USD millions) TF57598-MOR
                                millions)
                             TF57599-MOR



   Goods & Civil Works
Category 1-A: Goods
                             1.400.000            600,000                         0.00
and Works by SEEN
Category 1-B Goods
                             2.450.000          1,050,000                         0.00
 and Works LYDEC
Category 1-C Goods
                             1.050.000             450000
And Works by RADEM
          Total Amount       4,900,00           2,100,000
                             7,000,000

Project Costs at appraisal and Implementation
Project Preparation Costs    332,697.33
Project Implementation
                             632,515.36
Cost

          Total Financing
                              965,212.69
               Required


(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing        (USD         (USD    Appraisal
                                                          millions)    millions)
Trust Funds                                            0.00         0.00
Global Partnership on Output-based
                                                       7.00         0.00           .00
Aid

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Project had four components which combined the various activities to be implemented by both
the operators and the IVA. As mentioned earlier, the team chose to list categories of expenditures
(as reflected in Schedule I) as components in the results framework. The proposed intermediary
indicators were, however, in line with some components such as: (i) uptake by beneficiary
households per operator and eligible area, (ii) average monthly consumption per beneficiary
                                                27
household, and (iii) average consumption bill per beneficiary household. In addition, all
components were monitored based on the quarterly or semi-annual reports as well as the IVA’s
supervision missions. The components and the main achievements under the project were:

Component 1: Assessment of demand for connections and marketing/outreach efforts to sign
up households for the subsidized social connection. This was achieved by undertaking market
surveys and providing GPOBA with demand projections. It also involved several other activities
on the part of the operators such as: i) marketing activities to promote the terms of the subsidized
connection program to sign up households to their respective programs, ii) provision of semi-
annual updates on the projections, iii) identification of the inconsistencies and actual sign-up with
projections, and iv) presentation of a proposal for a new action plan to mobilize lagging customer
demand.

This component was monitored based on information presented in the quarterly and semi-annual
reports which listed the specific actions taken in order to increase households’ participation in the
social programs as well as one indicator which was the uptake by beneficiary households per
operator and eligible area. At the end of the project, most operators complied with the GA’s
provisions compelling them to promote the subsidized water and sanitation plan to the beneficiary
households. Progress reports were prepared and submitted on a quarterly and semi-annual basis
confirming progress in the implementation of these specific activities.

It is worth noting that the indicator end values of June 30, 2010 were respectively, 80 percent in
Casablanca, 73 percent in Meknes, and 93 percent in Tangiers. At project closing and as validated
by all operators during the ICRR mission, beneficiary households’ participation in the program
reached 75 percent (Meknes), 80 percent (Casablanca) and 90 percent (Tangiers) and operators
were still connecting people at the same affordable fee, thanks to the active engagement of the
mobile agencies in Tangiers, the dedicated staff for awareness and information campaigns in
Casablanca, and the customer service employees in Meknes. The high participation rates attested
to the achievement of the overall awareness program undertaken by the utility providers in
assuring the promotion of the subsidy program in the three cities. The survey results confirmed
households’ willingness to participate in the social connection programs and pay the proposed
current fee. Therefore, the implementation of this component was satisfactory.

Component 2: Management and implementation of works as required for establishing
functioning household connections. Activities supported under this component related mainly to:
i) the pre-financing by all participating utility providers of all works and household connection
fees, ii) the design and construction of facilities to allow access to services to households who had
signed up for social connections, and iii) the strict compliance with World Bank’s procurement
policies.

The monitoring of the pre-financing by all operators was realized through their respective progress
reports in which they were required to reflect all costs associated with all works and the relevant
information on procurement of works and goods. As explained in the main section of this
document, all the utility providers had to bear additional costs resulting from the fixed subsidy
amount to complete the required activities financed under the various project components.
Moreover, compliance with procurement had proved to be a rather challenging task, hence the
option to explore the compliance with national procurement rules for the implementation of a
future OBA project.


                                               28
Notwithstanding the difficulties associated with the additional unanticipated costs which resulted
in increasing the counterpart funding, and the difficulty to observe all Bank’s procurement rules,
successful implementation of this component was achieved through: (i) a compromise between the
Bank and the operators during MTR to reflect separately the costs associated with both “in-site?
and “off-site? works, since “off-site? works were not to be financed by the grant proceeds, and (ii)
the provision of procurement training.

The next tables list the amounts disbursed (as of March and December 2011), in addition to the
costs associated with the connection, as communicated by the operators in March 2012.

          Table 10: Documented Connection Costs and Grant Allocation in MAD and USD
                              (Exchange rate December 31, 2011)
                        AMENDIS                     LYDEC                        RADEM
                        (MAD)                       (MAD)                        (MAD)
Total GPOBA connection 65,482,420                   240,790,144                  Not available
costs
GPOBA Grant Allocation    16,159,564                  28,348,851                    12,785,621.40


Total GPOBA connection    8,321,832.69                3,297,144.87                  Not available
costs (USD)

GPOBA Grant Allocation    1,933,356                   3,297,144.87                  1,487,046
(USD)


The output indicators for this component were: (i) number of water and sewerage connections
made (total of beneficiary households, and (ii) number of people in urban areas provided with
access to improved sanitation under the project. The output of these two indicators was achieved.
The total number of connections and people connected, as anticipated at project closing in both the
ISRs and the operators’ reports (table 5), attest to the attainment of both indicators as a total of
12,426 connections were installed and around 60,000 people were connected to water and
sewerage services, exceeding the project development objective of 11,300 household connections
and 54,000 people. The rating of this component is satisfactory.

Component 3: Monitoring and household certification of output (active social connections).
This component was in place to connect beneficiary households to the network and collect
connections certificates signed by the same beneficiaries confirming that they were connected in
accordance with applicable rules, regulations, and terms of social connections. The requirement
was also to submit semi-annual summary reports presenting the number of households connected
per reporting period, the location of the households within INDH settlements, the billing and
payment documents, as well as the retention of the original documents for audit purposes at the
request of the MoI and the Bank. As explained earlier, the IVA’s responsibility was to review the
documentation provided by the utility providers as it related to the number of households
connected, their location and payment, and the billing documents to demonstrate quality of service
and water consumption. There were also two indicators in the results framework dedicated to this
component, such as: (i) average monthly consumption per beneficiary household, and (ii) average
consumption bill per beneficiary households. The seventeen (17) reports submitted by the IVA
described the challenges faced by the operators and the proposed actions to overcome them to
succeed in connecting households in the areas targeted by the three pilots. The output indicators

                                              29
were partially recorded, as revealed by the figures presented in the ISRs with and indicative end
target value of average consumption of 6m3/month in a 5-person household. The values recorded
at the end of June 30, 2010 were, notably: i) between 6m3 and 10m3 (Casablanca), ii) 9.2m3
(Meknes as of Feb. 2010), and (iii) 10m3 (Tangiers). Similarly, there was no end target value for
the average consumption bill and the values provided as of June 30, 2010 were: i) 36MAD-
69MAD/month, and ii) 47Dh/month (Meknes as of Feb. 2010). The rating of this component is
moderately satisfactory.

Component 4: Provision of ongoing service. This component sought to guarantee provision of
water and sewerage services under a well-established regulatory framework. This involved the
provision of service to households according to applicable regulatory provisions and the
households’ obligation to pay tariffs for consumption. Implementation of this component was
satisfactory thanks to the utilities good track record for the provision of service and the IVA’s
exhaustive monitoring. In fact, 40% of the payment requests were paid based on the effective use
of the connection by the beneficiary households for a minimum of six months as documented by
original metering and billing records. The survey results did not bring to light any issue related to
the quality of service and revealed the exact opposite, as service interruptions were always
justified by either the need to carry out works or based on utilities policies for service interruption
for non-payment. Yet, the affordability of service remained an issue in some areas in urban
Meknes.




                                                30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

At appraisal, the economic and financial analysis assessed mainly the investment costs and the
subsidy requirements and provided a rather unclear economic and cost benefit analysis.

Investment cost and subsidy

As pointed out earlier, the investment costs and subsidy needs were examined carefully by an
engineering consultant firm to ensure prudence and efficiency and were originally proposed by all
three operators in their respective designs and implementation plans.

At appraisal, the total GPOBA subsidy requirement was supposed to cover 28% of total adjusted
capital expenditures in Casablanca, 23% in Tangiers, 53% in Meknes urban and 74% in Meknes
rural.

Based on the available data in MAD shared by two operators, namely AMENDIS and LYDEC,
GPOBA’s subsidy share in total expenditures incurred by both operators, as of May 5, 2011
(Tangiers) and December 31, 2011 (Casablanca), equaled 25% and 12%. With regard to the
anticipated GPOBA subsidy requirement as a percentage of total adjusted capital expenditure, it is
worth nothing that the actual costs incurred by LYDEC were increased by 16% while the subsidy
requirement as a portion of the total costs was rightly assessed for AMENDIS, as revealed by the
25% at project preparation and closing. This increase is largely explained by the delays faced by
the operator during pilot implementation which resulted in additional costs, as substantiated by the
available data. Since RADEM did not communicate the actual costs of its operation, the same
assessment was not possible.

As LYDEC communicated a detailed fund allocation and utilization, it was interesting to identify
the various financing contributions, in addition to the GPOBA subsidy as follows:

         Table 11: LYDEC Source of Funding and Total Funds Allocation as of December 31, 2011
Sources of Funding                                  Amounts (MAD)                Percent of total
                                                                                 contribution
Beneficiary Contribution (excluding taxes)          50,090,100                   20.80%
GPOBA subsidy                                       28,348,851                   11.77%
Pre-financing                                       159,551,192                  66.26%
Communes contribution                               2,800,000                    1.16%
Other subsidies                                     --
Total Project Funds                                 240,790,144




                                               31
                          Table 12. LYDEC Use of Funds as of December 31, 2011
Use of Funds                                              Amounts (MAD)
Water Connection Costs
    Off site (water excluding Tax)                        12,898,856
    Off-site (water Tax included)                         2,379,047
    In-site + water connections (excluding Tax)           30,945,451
    In-site + water connections (excluding Tax)           6,039,453
Sewerage Connection Costs
    Off site (sewerage excluding Tax)                     3,343,324
    Off-site (sewerage including Tax)                     661,905
    In-site + sewerage connections (excluding Tax)        154,043,008
    In-site + sewerage connections (including Tax)        30,479,099
Total Project Costs                                       240,790,144

As validated by these figures, with the GPOBA subsidy contribution, LYDEC had to pre-finance
66% of the total costs, without the subsidy the pre-financing would have totaled 75%.




                                                     32
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
           Names                            Title                Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Dirk Sommer                 Senior Infrastructure Specialist      IEF Task Team Leader
Pier Francesco Mantovani,   Senior Water & Sanitation Specialist MNSIF Task Team Leader
Alaleh Motamedi             Senior Procurement Specialist        MNA Procurement
Xavier Chauvot De
                            ET Consultant                       MNSIF
Beauchene
Zakia Chummun               Language Program Assistant          MNSIF
Supervision/ICR
Xavier Chauvot De
                            Sr. Water & Sanitation Spec.       MNSWA Task Team Leader
Beauchene
Abdellah El Bitar           Consultant                         MNCMA
Mohamed Larbi Khrouf        Consultant                         MNSWA
Pier Francesco Mantovani    Lead Water and Sanitation Spec     ECSS6
Mohamed Mehdi               Consultant                         MNAFM
Alaleh Motamedi             Senior Procurement Specialist      OPCPR
Agathe Laure                Consultant                         MNSSD
Augustin Pierre Maria       Young Professional                 MNSWA

Esther Illouz Loening       Infrastructure Specialist          GPOBA
Catherine M. Russell        Communication Officer
                                                               GPOBA
Fatiha Amar                 Operations Analyst                 MNSWA ICR Author and
                                                                     TTL
Zakia Chummun               Language Program Assistant         MNSSD
Drissi, Malika              ET Consultant                      MNSSO


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY06                                              7.07                    11.00
FY07                                             22.27                    22.27

                            Total:               29.34                    33.27
Supervision/ICR
FY07                                              6.12                     3.57
FY08                                             15.61                    18.69

                                            33
FY09                                              10.44                         10.64
FY10                                               8.30                          9.64
FY11                                               9.40                         11.44
FY12                                              14.90                          9.27
                              Total:              64.77                         63.25

It is to be noted that, as agreed with GPOBA, the cost of the IVA was included in the Bank
supervision budget, and so was the cost of the independent MTR by a consultant firm.




                                             34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

An independent ICRR team from the MENA Region carried out an impact evaluation from March
19-30, 2012 in the cities of Meknes, Casablanca, and Tangiers. The objective was to perform a
broader assessment of the overall or net effects, intended or unintended, of the Pilot as a whole.
Surveys and interviews were the types of measures used to complete the process of recording
observations as part of this research effort, which included the following steps:

I.   Selection of the research population, data collection, and design

Sampling
Household beneficiaries in the OBA eligible areas were randomly selected. The method used was
to select every tenth household from the proposed beneficiary lists. When the selected household
was not available, then the team proceeded to the person next door.

Sampling frame
Survey participants were drawn from the extensive lists compiled by the IVA throughout the
implementation of the project.

Unit of analysis
The units of analysis in this particular assessment were individuals and groups of people
interviewed in the targeted areas by the three pilots.

Data used
The research focused exclusively on qualitative data which was comprised of photographs, videos,
and sound recording.

Design
The evaluation was crosss-sectional, in other words, took place at a single point in time.

II. Covering Ethical issues

Ethical issues
To protect the rights of the participants, the principle of voluntary participation was followed as all
participants were fully informed about the procedures and risks involved in the assessment and
gave their consent.

III. Survey

The surveys consisted of questionnaires, interviews and direct observation. Personal interviews
were conducted with both the operators and the beneficiary households. In some instances, “group?
interviews, which allowed the team to probe the interviewees and collect additional information
(mainly in rural areas), were also explored. Direct observation allowed the interviewees to view
the assessment process from a more detached and clear perspective and participate in the cultural
context without taking part by resorting to video and audio support.




                                                35
IV. Areas and number of people surveyed

The survey areas included nine (9) of the thirteen communes targeted by the three pilots. The
following table lists the communes selected and the number of beneficiary household participants.

                  Table 13. Communes Surveyed in Meknes, Casablanca and Tangiers
             Urban                         Rural                                      Number of
                                                                                      people
Meknes       Meknes                        Dar Oum Sultane                                   19
                  Borj Adda                    Widad
                  Douar Tabac                  Dhissa
                                           Dkhisssa
                                               Douar Zoualet
                                               Douar Lamkhater
                                               Douar Abdallah ben
                                               Rahou
             Ouislane                                                                       14
                    Ouislane
                    Zifer
Casablanca   Bouskoura                      Majjatia Ouled Taleb                            18
                     Lamkensa North Tr2       Hmadat

Tangiers     Charf-Moghogha                                                                 26
                   Oued Sania
                   Dhar Mers Tanja Balia
                   Moghogha Kebir Tr 1
             Tanger Medina
                   Mesnana inferior
             Beni Makada
                   Mrabet 1
                   Ouama Gharbia
                                                                    Total Number of         77
                                                                    people

V. Respondent profile

An analysis of the respondent profile revealed a correlational relationship with male employment
and the sex of the respondent. Interestingly, based on the sample of interviewees, the low
participation of men in interviews in both Casablanca and Tangiers could be explained by a higher
employment rate and a lower poverty incidence. In fact, most men were at work during the day as
opposed to most male household beneficiaries in urban Meknes who were home and who stressed
their inability to afford the connection fee because of lack of income.

VI. Impact evaluation scope and objective

The objective of the evaluation was to collect the necessary data in order to assess the overall
impact of the project, record households’ level of satisfaction with the basic services provided by
the three operators, namely water and sanitation, and hold discussions with the three utilities.




                                               36
VII.       Survey results

Additional survey results are highlighted below:

Indirect Beneficiaries

Project Design: it was pointed out that delays in project preparation resulted in having to revise the
cost estimates and delaying the tendering process as the original costs assessed on the results of
specific studies were no longer relevant.

Motivation for participation in the pilot: the subsidy was recognized as the first motivation, as the
major impediment to the provision of water and sanitation services was the connection fee,
followed by the OBA’s rigorous methodology, partnership with the World Bank to ensure the
promotion of the pilots at the international level, and the operation association with the national
INDH program.

Risk identification: the major risks associated with the provision of basic services in the illegal
and informal settlements in the three cities, as confirmed by the three utility providers were: (i)
risks associated with illegal settlements encouragement (the provision of access to water and
sanitation services is linked to the potential risk of contributing to increasing informal groups
settling around cities, in addition to promoting substandard housing), (ii) standard risks associated
with the carrying out of works in informal neighborhoods, and (iii) obvious financial risk (since
the pre-financing requirement posed a risk to the financial stability of the private operators and
even more so to the public utility).

Provision of water and sanitation connections with the same conditions: all three operators
confirmed that they were still connecting people in the INDH neighborhoods to both water and
sanitation services at the same discounted tariff.
Project impact: the impact of the implementation of the OBA pilots was particularly remarkable in
the three cities:
       (i) First, thanks to the social connection programs, the operators succeeded in tapping into
       new market segments, in areas where the population could not previously benefit from basic
       services because of the high connection fee and because these settlements were not formally
       recognized as inhabited areas by the Moroccan authorities.
       (ii) Second, the tremendous social and economic impact is worth mentioning as the provision
       of basic services in the OBA targeted neighborhoods resulted in a real estate boom in both
       Meknes and Tangiers and contributed to increasing the value of land and demand for basic
       services. Land value today is ten times higher in Meknes and as a result, entire cities are
       being built following the implementation of the pilots.
       (iii) Third, the recognition of these beneficiary households as full-fledged citizens because
       of all the efforts deployed by the private operators, as substantiated by their high recovery
       rate and the close relationships established with the targeted population.
Replication at the national level: operators’ recommendations for replication were:
           the need to simplify the OBA criteria and the verification mechanisms since the
            replication at the national level will involve all private and public operators;


                                               37
        the provision of subsidies was considered important for both the operator and the
         household beneficiaries. However, the adoption of the OBA rigorous methodology and
         monitoring arrangements was also seen as important to ensuring the success of the
         project;
        the issue of the grant allocation as not being balanced was raised by the public operator,
         as higher subsidy amounts were allocated and given to the private operators. However,
         the allocation was determined by the number of connections to be installed and RADEM
         had to implement the lowest number of connections, hence the amount of the grant
         allocated;
        the importance to assess an equal or higher level of contribution than those proposed by
         the pilots, since costs turned out to be higher than anticipated to ensure the financial
         sustainability of the program;
        the obligation to finance off-site infrastructure works and to distinguish costs associated
         with water and sanitation infrastructure and the installation and connection works;
        the necessity to promote the success of the project to increase the chances of its
         replication at the national level, since the GoM is still very much aware of the importance
         of continuing the implementation of the social program;
        the promotion of a close collaboration with the local authorities; and
        the need to implement multi-sectoral water and electricity infrastructure projects to meet
         beneficiary households increasing demand for basic services, as noted by the public
         operator, as standalone water and sanitation projects can longer meet this growing
         demand for basic services.

Direct beneficiaries

Coverage of the study. The same ICRR mission carried out beneficiary household surveys in the
three cities of Meknes, Casablanca and Tangiers. It covered 9 of the 13 communes included in the
pilots, namely: i) Meknes, Ouislane, Dar Oum Sultane, and Dkissa in Meknes; ii) Bouskoura and
Mejjatia Ouled Taleb in Casablanca; and iii) Charf-Moghogha, Tanger Medina, and Beni Makada
in Tangiers.

Survey Methodology used. Ten (10) beneficiary households were randomly selected from the
extensive lists of households compiled by the IVA and reflecting the information pertaining to all
households targeted by the project, such as names, addresses or location, and identification
numbers. The method used was to select every 10th person households from these lists. When the
selected beneficiary was not available, then the team proceeded to the person next door. The same
procedure was adopted uniformly in all surveyed communes. A representative sample of 30
households was drawn, yet a total of 77 beneficiary households were interviewed in the field: (i)
33 beneficiary households in Meknes, (ii) 18 in Casablanca, and (iii) 26 in Tangiers.

Beneficiary household characteristics. The survey interviewed a total of 77 beneficiary
households in the 9 communes. The majority of households interviewed were female: (i) 94
percent in Casablanca, (ii) 58 percent in Tangiers, and (iii) only 33 percent in Meknes. Results
show that the proportion of female in the surveyed population is larger, representing 56 percent of
the total of the selected beneficiary households in the three cities.

Meknes urban
Survey results reveal that 45 percent of the selected beneficiary households in Meknes urban areas
stressed the very high level of their monthly contribution and were either paying irregularly or
planning to discontinue payments. They also confirmed their inability to pay the connection fee.
                                                38
More importantly, the issue was more critical in “Douar Tabac? in Meknes where the entire
neighborhood complained openly about the connection fee as being totally out of reach. This
statement is validated by the information reflected in table 7 in Annex 5, since the total
consumption bill is much higher in Meknes than Casablanca where the poverty level is considered
moderate compared to Meknes.29

1. Cost of water

Survey results reveal that consumption bills ranged from MAD 15-97. Adding the monthly
beneficiary households’ contribution to the current price of water consumption, as shown in the
following table, confirms that setting the original household affordability at MAD 150 Dh was
reasonable for Urban Meknes, Tangiers and Casablanca. Actual beneficiary monthly bills ranged
from MAD 55-202.26, as follows: a) in Casablanca (MAD 55-105), b) in Tangiers (MAD 125.26-
202.26), and Meknes (Rural: MAD70-85 - Urban: MAD 125-140).

                              Table 14. Total Household Expenditure for Water Consumption
                                  Meknes (MAD/month)               Tangiers (MAD/month)                    Casablanca (MAD/month)

Water consumption                 15-30                            20-97                                   25-75
                                  Urban            Rural
                                  Water &          Water
                                  Sanitation       only
Beneficiary household
monthly contribution              110              55              105.26                                  30

Total Consumption                 125-140          70-85           125.26-202.26                           55-105
Bill


2. ISRs Intermediary Output Indicators (IOI)

The data collected during the ICRR mission also shed some light on some intermediary indicators
and confirmed the nonattainment of the first IOI in Meknes and the achievement of the second IOI.




29
   At appraisal poverty levels were assessed to be different across the selected areas, from the Meknes area with the highest poverty incidence,
followed by Casablanca and more moderate poverty levels in the Tangiers areas.


                                                                      39
                    Table 15: ISRs Intermediary Indicators (Achievements at Project Closing
                               Original Target          Revised Target               Achievements based on survey
                                                                                     results

                             (12/30/2009)           (12/31/2010)                   (March 2012)
Intermediary Output Indicators (IOI) : Uptake by Beneficiary Households per operator and eligible area

     Casablanca                80%                     80%                         80%
     Meknes                    90%                     90%                         75%
     Tangiers                  85%                     85%                         95%
 Comments: relying on the available ISRs data, the IOI was not achieved. However, based on the survey results, the IOI
 was achieved in Casablanca, was below target in Meknes and above target in Tangiers.

 Intermediary Output Indicators (IOI): Average monthly consumption per Beneficiary
 Casablanca                    indicative      indicative       10m3                      10m3
                                                                     3
     Lahraouiyine              target is 40l/  target is 40l/   6.2m
     Lemkensa                  day/person,     day/person,      9.2m3
 Meknes                        translates into translates to                              between 4.5 m3- 8m3
     Meknes urban              6 m3/mo in      6m3/mo in        n/a
     Meknes rural              a 5-person      a 5-person
 Tangiers                      household       household        10m3 (7 to 12m3)          (6.3m3-13m3)
 Comments: the information collected by the ICRR mission seem to reflect higher average consumption bills than
 recorded during project implementation.

 Intermediary Output Indicators (IOI): Average consumption bill per beneficiary household

 Casablanca                                                                                      25-75Dh/month
     Lahraouiyine              No                No                 69Dh/l
                               information        information
    Lemkensa                   no                no                 36Dh/l
 Meknes                        target            target             47Dh/l
    Meknes urban               value             value              76Dh/month                   125-140Dh/month
    Meknes rural               information       information        (from 54 to                  70-85Dh/month
 Tangiers                                                           95Dh/month) depending on     125.26-
                                                                    area                         202.26Dh/month

 Comments: as noted in section 1.3, these IOI were not assigned a target value. Operators were requested to collect the
 information related to beneficiary households’ consumption and bill. Based on the survey results, the information
 recorded seems rather accurate.

 3. Households’ Composition

 The size of the household was also determined at appraisal. The data collected during the
 evaluation mission indicated different household compositions, contributing to attest to the
 variability of household size in illegal and informal settlements, as presented in table 16.

                     Table 16. Household Composition (Meknes, Casablanca and Tangiers)
                                                            Number of people
 Meknes                                                     3-4
 Casablanca                                                 5-10
 Tangiers                                                   6-10




                                                       40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                      41
Annex 7. Summary of the Recipients’ ICR

The three implementing agencies, namely RADEM, LYDEC, and AMENDIS submitted to the
Bank their respective Project Completion Reports (PCRs), which provided a complete assessment
of the execution of each pilot in each city.

The operators’ PCRs concluded that all project activities were implemented successfully despite
all the delays and the challenges they faced as implementing agencies throughout the life of the
Pilot project. They also stressed that the achievements required a lot of human and financial
resources. The main points raised by the operators are summarized as follows:

I.        Assessment of the Development Results at Project Closing

The PCRs highlighted the fact that the number of connections to be subsidized depended heavily
on the impact of the exchange rate fluctuations between the US dollar and the Moroccan Dirham.
They also underlined that the unit connection cost was calculated by the consulting firm hired to
contribute to the design of the Pilot in such a way that the unit subsidy and the beneficiary
contribution would cover the actual capital expenditure investment per connection.

The reports confirmed that in June 30, 2010, the utility in Tangiers managed to install 3,373
connections of which only 2,945 were subsidized because of the exchange fluctuations between
the USD and the MAD. In Meknes, the operator connected 2,730 households and provided access
to basic services to 11,000 people. In Casablanca, the operators validated a total of 6,130
connections in urban areas and 621 connections in rural areas.

On the total investment required in Tangiers to implement the overall OBA program, the same
documents confirmed that the total capital expenditures equaled MAD 78,578,904. In addition,
fourteen percent (14%) of Amendis total costs were financed by the beneficiary contribution,
twenty-one percent (21%) by the subsidy and the remaining sixty-five percent (65%) were pre-
financed by the operator.

The PCRs also indicated that the level of the beneficiary contribution was correctly assessed as
demonstrated by the actual successful implementation of the pilots, the high uptake by beneficiary
households, and the high recovery rate. Meknes, however, had a low recovery rate.

II.       Implementation

The reports underlined a number of implementation difficulties during the first two years of the
project, as presented below:

Factors affecting the Pilot implementation

         Changes in local authorities’ priorities. Several neighborhoods were no longer considered
          a priority by the local authorities, therefore the implementation of the connections in these
          areas was further delayed.
         Works to be carried out prior to installing the connections and land issues delayed the
          pilot implementation.
         Works to be carried out by third parties such as Al Omrane hindered efforts to connect
          some households in a number of areas.
                                                   42
       Beneficiary households’ low participation in the social program in Meknes, at the
        beginning of the project, slowed down implementation. Additional contributions were
        required from the communes to make it affordable for some households to participate in
        the program.

Adoption of an Action plan to meet the development objective

       The selection of new eligible areas during the MTR contributed to speeding up the
        implementation.
       The extension of the closing date allowed the operators to effectively execute the new
        action plan and speed up the execution of the pilot to finally meet the grant development
        objective.
       The establishment of a committee linked to the local committee in charge of the
        implementation of the INDH to discuss and identify the appropriate solutions to all issues
        resulting from the Pilot implementation.

Project financing Gap

The PCRs projected a 25% deficit for the overall pilot in Tangiers by 2020. The expected deficit
stems from (i) a 20% VAT not taken into account in the subsidy calculation with an important
impact estimated at MAD 21 million and representing 27% of the total investment, (ii) the
assessment of the subsidy amount during the preparation of the project was never revised
throughout the life of the pilot projects, (iii) the increase of the VAT from 14% to 20% in 2008
representing an additional financing requirement of MAD 4 million, and (iv) the exchange rate
fluctuations between the MAD and USD resulting in a short fall of MAD 2 million.

Transaction costs

The reports also mentioned the huge costs resulting from the carrying of a large number of
financial audits during the life of the Pilot project and the additional financial resources needed
which were estimated at MAD 400,000.

Extension of closing Date

The PCRs referred to the number of exogenous factors which imposed a number of constraints on
all three utility providers which led to the submission to the Bank of one combined request to
extend the closing date for the second time, from December 2011 to December 2011, even though
AMENDIS had already met the pilot objective in 2010 and committed its entire subsidy allocation.

Risk associated with the extension of basic service in informal settlements

The PCRs considered the risk associated with the extension of basic services to informal
settlements and emphasized that giving access to water and sanitation services could encourage
additional informal settlements.

Lessons Learned

The PCRs indicated a number of lessons learned, especially from the implementation experience.


                                               43
They included:

          The recognition that the INDH-inspired program30 was the right framework to implement
           the OBA pilot and that the OBA approach was the right instrument to give access to the
           poor in peri-urban and informal settlements.
          The uptake by the beneficiary households was essential to ensure the implementation of the
           social connection programs in the three cities and the viability of these important programs.
          The World Bank’s role in the implementation of the pilots through its technical input, its
           audit requirements, and its close monitoring contributed to enhancing the execution of the
           overall social program.
          The OBA approach played an important role in promoting competition among the three
           operators and a culture of high performance through the achievement of tangible results.
          The adoption of the OBA organizational and administrative structures by the overall INDH
           program for service extension by the operators enhanced the execution of the national
           social program.
          The active engagement of the mobile agencies in Tangiers, the dedicated staff responsible
           for the awareness and the information campaigns in Casablanca, were all instrumental in
           increasing the beneficiary households’ participation in the social program.
          The establishment of a Committee in Tangiers was crucial in solving all the issues
           encountered throughout the life of the Pilot project, but more importantly in gathering all
           parties involved around the same table (the operators, communes and local authority
           representatives, and other stakeholders).
          The feasibility study was crucial for identifying the pilot costs as well as the involvement
           and the participation of the various financial partners.
          The active participation of the local authorities in the execution of the Pilot was critical.

III.       Bank’s Performance

Regarding the Bank’s performance, the PCRs cited the various institutional support provided by
the Bank. The Bank’s flexibility and its guidance throughout the implementation were also
mentioned. However, the reports highlighted some areas for improvement. Those were:

        Stringent procurement procedures, the application of which was in contradiction with the
         Moroccan public procurement code;
        The duplication of audits throughout the life of the project with some regarded as both
         unnecessary and irrelevant to the output based approach (annual financial audits and other
         additional unnecessary audits), while the only relevant audits were those carried out by the
         IVA.

The complete PCRs can be found in the Project Files (Annex 9).



30
   Program promoted by the Ministry of Interior (line Ministry for the Recipient utilities) for water and sanitation services expansion by utilities in
INDH-identified areas, in accordance with the spirit of the INDH program. These programs were not processed through the INDH institutional
arrangement, nor were they funded by the INDH. They were implemented by water and sanitation utilities directly, in close collaboration with
INDH local commissions for coordination and problem solving purposes.




                                                                       44
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable




                                      45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1.    Supervision Mission’s Aide-Memoires from 2005 to 2011
2.    Independent Verification Agent’s (IVA) report (17 reports in total)
3.    Project Appraisal Commitment Document (PACD)
4.    Grant Agreement – TF Grant No. 057598 and 057599 - January 29, 2007
5.    Implementation Status and Results Report (ISRR) 1 to 6
6.    Original Operations Manual, January 25, 2007
7.    Revised Operations Manual, October 2008
8.    Procurement Mid-Term Review Report
9.    Social and Economic Report (Infrastructure Development Consultants dated March 15,
      2006)
10.   Environmental Report
11.   Mid-Term Review Report (Infrastructure Development Consultants, April 2008)
12.   IVA’s Procurement Report, April 2008
13.   Financial Modeling Report (Infrastructure Development Consultants dated March 15,
      2006)
14.   Preparation Report (Infrastructure Development Consultants dated March 15, 2006)
15.   Operator’s quarterly and semi-annual reports
16.   Disbursement, audit and budget reports
17.   Operators Project Completion Reports (PCRs) – LYDEC, AMENDIS, and RADEM




                                          46
MAP SECTION




    47
MAP 1: MEKNES (DAR OUM ELSOULTANE)




                48
MAP 2: TANGIERS (AOUMA GHARBIA)




              49
MAP 3: TANGIERS (MRABET 2)




            50
MAP 4: TANGIERS (MRABET 1)




            51
MAP 5: TANGIERS (DHAR AJJAM EL MERS)




                 52
MAP 6: TANGIERS (MESNANA INFERIEUR)




                53
MAP 7: CASABALANCA (LAMKENSA and LARHAOUIYNE NORD)




                        54
