Page  1
Document of
 
The World Bank 
 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
 
Report No: 52609-MA 
 
RESTRUCTURING PAPER 
 
ON A 
 
PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING  
OF  
IMPROVED ACCESS TO WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT 
 GPOBA TF GRANT NUMBERS 057598 AND 057599 
 
DECEMBER 30, 2009 
 
IN THE INITIAL AMOUNT OF  
US$7 MILLION  
 
AND 
 
A
RESTRUCTURED AMOUNT OF  
 US$7 MILLION  
 
TO THE 
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
SOCIETE DES EAUX ET 
DE L’ELECTRICITE DU NORD 
LYONNAISE DES EAUX DE CASABLANCA 
REGIE AUTONOME DE DISTRIBUTION D’EAU ET D’ELECTRICITE DE 
MEKNES 
 
Sustainable Development Department 
Middle East and North Africa Region 
 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the 
performance of their official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without 
World Bank authorization. 
Page  2
ii 
 
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS 
 
FM 
Financial Management 
GPOBA 
Global Partnership on Output Based Aid 
INHD 
National Initiative for Human Development 
LYDEC 
Lyonnaise des Eaux de Casablanca 
RADEM 
Régie Autonome de Distribution d’Eau et d’Électricité de Meknès 
 
Vice President:
Shamshad Akhtar 
Country Director:
Mats Karlsson 
Country Manager
Francoise Clottes 
Sector Manager:
Francis Ato Brown  
Task Team Leader:
Xavier Chauvot de Beauchene 
Page  3
KINGDOM OF
 
MOROCCO 
 
Improved Access to Water and Sanitation Services Project  
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Page 
A.
 
Introduction.............................................................................................................1
 
B.
 
Background and current status................................................................................1
 
C.
 
Proposed Changes...................................................................................................3
 
D.
 
Analysis and expected outcomes.............................................................................3
 
E.
 
Benefits and Risks...................................................................................................4
 
ANNEX 1: Proposed Changes............................................................................................5
 
ANNEX 2: Formal requests for extension of closing date .................................................6
 
ANNEX 3: Action Plan.....................................................................................................11 
 
Page  4
i
Restructuring Status: 
Final
Restructuring Type: Level 2 
1.  Basic Information 
Project ID & Name 
P102527: GPOBA W3-Morocco Urban WS&S Access 
Pilot 
Country Morocco 
Task Team Leader 
Xavier Chauvot De Beauchene 
Sector Manager/Director 
Francis Ato Brown 
Country Director 
Mats Karlsson 
Original Board Approval Date 
01/29/2007 
Original Closing Date: 
12/31/2009 
Current Closing Date 
12/31/2009 
Proposed Closing Date [if applicable] 
12/31/2010 
EA Category 
C-Not Required 
Revised EA Category 
C-Not Required 
EA Completion Date 
 
Revised EA Completion Date 
 
2.  Revised Financing Plan (US$)
 
Source 
Original 
Revised 
BORROWER 0.00 
0.00 
GPOBA 7.00 
7.00 
Total
 
7.00 7.00 
3.  Borrower 
Organization 
Department 
Location 
4.   Implementing Agency
 
Organization 
Department 
Location 
SOCIETE DES EAUX ET       
D’E LECTRICITE DU NORD 
Commercial name: Amendis-
Tanger 
Morocco 
LYONNAISE DES EAUX DE 
CASABLANCA 
 Casablanca, 
Morocco 
REGIE AUTONOME DE 
DISTRIBUTION D’EAU ET 
D’ELECTRICITE DE MEKNES 
(RADEM) 
 Meknes, 
Morocco 
Page  5
ii 
 
5.   Disbursement Estimates (US$m) 
Actual amount disbursed as of 01/07/2010 
2.12 
Fiscal Year 
Annual 
Cumulative 
2010 3.18 
5.30 
2011 1.70 
7.00 
Total
 
7.00
 
6.   Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies 
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies? 
 
Does the scale-up of restructured projects trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes, 
please select from the checkli st below. 
N
7a.  Project Development Objectives/Outcomes 
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes 
The objective of the Project is to promote, following an output-based approach, the connection to water 
and sanitation services of about 11,300 low income beneficiary households selected in disadvantaged peri-
urban and rural INDH neighborhoods in the urban centers of Casablanca, Tangiers and Meknes in the 
territory of the Kingdom of Morocco.
"
7b.  Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
 
[if applicable]
 
Page  6
iii 
 
Page  7
1
A. Introduction 
 
1. 
This memorandum seeks the approval of the Country Director (MNC01) to 
extend the Closing Date of the Morocco - Improved Access to Water and Sanitation 
Services Project (P102527) by 12 months from its current closing date of December 31, 
2009 to December 31, 2010 as requested by the Direction of Public Utilities and 
Delegated Services 
–
Ministry of Interior on September 28, 2009. Written confirmation 
were received from the Ministry of Finance, and from the three operators implementing 
the project, namely Lyonnaise des Eaux de Casablanca, Amendis-Tanger and Régie 
Autonome de Distribution d’Eau et d’Electricité de Meknès (Letter and written 
confirmation are attached to this Paper).  This is the first request for extension. 
B.  Background and current status 
 
2. 
According to Schedule 1 of the Grant Agreement dated January 29, 2007, the 
objective of the project is to promote, following an output-based approach, the 
connection to water and sanitation services of about 11,300 low income beneficiary 
households selected in disadvantaged peri-urban and rural INDH neighborhoods in the 
urban centers of Casablanca, Tangiers and Meknes in the territory of the Kingdom of 
Morocco. The project thus aims at providing sustainable access to combined water and 
sewerage service to peri-urban areas with high levels of low income households while 
demonstrating replicable OBA mechanisms to target sector funds and potential donor 
monies in support of the Government of Morocco’s challenge to extend water supply & 
sewerage (WS&S) service in poor and vulnerable communities, within the framework of 
King’s National Initiative for Human Development (INDH). To that effect, the project is 
targeted towards three municipalities keen on piloting OBA approaches for improved 
water and sanitation access, i.e. Casablanca, Meknes and Tangiers, under conditions 
representative of Morocco’s WS&S market.  Two international private sector incumbents 
(Amendis in Tangiers and LYDEC in Casablanca), and a public sector incumbent (the 
Regie Autonome de Distribution d’Eau et d’Électricité de Meknès - RADEM) are the 
service providers in their respective municipalities.  While the details of the schemes 
vary, the common objective of the pilots is to expand access to water and sanitation 
among the poor living in recently legalized informal settlements in peri-urban areas.   
3. 
The expected number of beneficiary households is of about 11,300, or 
approximately 56,000 people. The estimated total cost of the project is estimated to be 
USD22.2 million, including USD 7 million GPOBA subsidies (3.5 million Casablanca, 2 
million Tangiers and 1.5 million Meknès) and about 15.2 millions of user’s contribution. 
4. 
The outputs for which OBA subsidies are disbursed are individual household 
network connections for standard potable water and/or sewerage utility service, in 
previously unserved (illegal) and predominantly poor peri-urban neighborhoods, recently 
regularized. The disbursement profile of the individual subsidy is as follows: (i) 60% of 
unit subsidy is released upon verification of eligible water and sewerage household 
connection, and (ii) 40% of unit subsidy is released upon verification of sustained service 
for a period of 6 months.  
5. 
Subsidy targeting is geographical in nature: The target neighborhoods are 
recognized among the poorest in urban Morocco, and are part of the Government of 
Morocco National Initiative for Human Development (INDH)’s shortlist of 160 most 
Page  8
2
disadvantaged urban and peri-urban communities. All households in the selected pilot 
areas are eligible to participate in the connection subsidy program. However, the 
eligibility criteria for social connection as determined at the level of each operator apply.  
They are indicated in the table below.  
 
Table 1: Summary of eligibility criteria of beneficiary households per city / operator 
 
Eligibility Criteria  
Casablanca 
Meknès Tangiers 
Beneficiary Household’s 
commitment to pay a 
monthly contribution of : 
MAD 30 for water 
supply (USD 3.3 
equivalent) * 
MAD 30 for sanitation 
(USD 3.3 equivalent) * 
MAD 55 in rural areas for water supply 
and sanitation (USD 6.1 eq.) * 
MAD 110 in urban/peri-urban areas for 
water and sanitation (USD12.2 eq.) * 
MAD 105.26 for 
water and 
sanitation 
(USD 11.1 eq.) * 
Maximum number of 
months for repayment 
84 
Urbain: 84 for water and sanitation; 
31 for water alone, 53 for sanitation alone.
Rural: 62 for water alone 
120 
Maximum Household 
contribution MAD 
5,040 
W+S 
MAD 9,240 for W+S in urban area; 
MAD 3,410 for water alone; 
MAD 5,830 for sanitation alone 
12,631.2 W+S 
Location in OBA targeted 
quarters 
Yes Yes 
Yes 
Authorization to connect 
from the municipality 
Yes Yes 
Yes 
*Exchange rate at the time of Appraisal. 
 
6. 
The US$7 million grant was executed on January 29, 2007. It experienced a slow 
start with the first disbursement taking place in early 2008. Implementation accelerated in 
2008, with the operators reaching between 14 and 39% of their planned number of 
connections to water supply and between 19 and 44% of their planned number of 
connections to sewerage. At the end of 2008, the pilot had delivered 24% of the planned 
connections to water supply and 27% of the planned number of connection to sanitation. 
In 2009, progress under the pilot is significant, with delivering approaching 39% for 
water supply and 37% for sanitation (see Table 2). However, this progress is due to 
increases in the number of connections delivered in Meknès and Tangiers, while the pilot 
in Casablanca faced major challenges stalling the connection delivery for over a year.  
 
Table 2: Progress of the pilots by the end of September 2009 
 
O
S
W
S
W
S
W
S
W
S
LYDEC 
C
RADEM 
M
AMENDIS
TANGER
TOTAL
C
T
T
C
Page  9
3
7. Project 
ratings 
 
The Procurement rating is Moderately Satisfactory. Mitigation measures have been taken 
to ensure that procurement is carried out in accordance with the procedures. 
 
Financial management (FM) rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory. At this stage, we have 
received all audits reports but the 
financial audit of one of the three operators, 
was 
qualified as not acceptable to the Bank. The operator has submitted a revised draft, 
stating four qualifications. On December 10, 2009, an FM mission visited the operator 
and recommended mitigation measures allowing the financial audit to be satisfactory to 
the Bank before the end of the month. RADEM agreed to immediately implement the 
recommendations and to provide necessary documentation to the auditor, so that a 
revised financial audit can be issued by December 21, 2009. This approach is considered 
satisfactory to FM colleagues. On that basis, and in order not to penalize the other two 
operators, th
e
team recommends approving and processing Government’s request for the 
extension of the grant for one additional year, with the strict condition that no 
disbursement is made to RADEM until compliance is reached, as determined by FM 
colleagues. 
 
Safeguards rating is satisfactory.  
 
C. Proposed Changes 
 
8. 
The proposed change is the extension of the closing date of the Project by 12 
months from its current closing date of December 31. 2009 to December 31, 2010.  The 
extension is necessary to allow the full utilization of the Grant’s proceeds.  
 
D.  Analysis and expected outcomes 
 
9. 
The changes described above do not have a significant impact on the original 
economic, financial, technical, institutional or safeguards aspects of the project. 
 
10. 
Some delays in the implementation have been due to obstacles independent from 
the three service providers regarding which encouraging progress have been noted during 
the last supervision mission. In addition to this, the current numbers of household 
connected do not reflect the current progress in the extension of distribution lines within 
the targeted areas which will soon lead to a higher rate of household connections. 
 
·
In the Lahraouiyines area of Casablanca, where the delays are the most 
significant, land acquisition issues have been solved by the responsible 
authorities, allowing the third party to restart its infrastructure development work, 
prerequisite for LYDEC to connect around 5,000 households to water and 
sanitation. Distribution lines have been installed in Lemkensa, the other major 
poor settlement area and the connection of another 5,000 households was pending 
the validation of the lists of beneficiaries by the relevant authorities, which took 
place on November 23, 2009. The first connections in that area are expected to 
take place in the coming weeks. In order to ensure the timely use of the GPOBA 
Page  10
4
subsidies, it was agreed at Mid-term review to include additional areas, where 
LYDEC has started the works, which will allow connecting 1,045 households. 
 
·
In Tangiers, 61% of the targeted households have already been connected to water 
and sanitation. The execution of some of the remaining connections is conditioned 
by the completion of trunk infrastructure components falling under the 
responsibility of other agencies. Nevertheless, Amendis-Tangiers is confident that 
they finalize the connections delivered under the project by the end of June 2010. 
 
·
In Meknes, water and sanitation connections are progressing satisfactorily, in 
spite of delays in the land acquisition process for trunk infrastructures. 
Connections under the project are expected to be completed within the requested 
extension period. 
 
11. 
In light of the situation in the three cities, the Bank’s team considers that the 
proposed extension of the closing date would allow the full utilization of the Grant 
proceeds during the requested extension. 
E.  Benefits and Risks 
 
12. 
The proposed extension would allow further achieving the Project’s development 
objective through the provision of subsidized access to water and sanitation to an 
additional 8,500 poor households currently without services. 
 
13. 
The proposed restructuring does not introduce any specific new risks. 
 
Page  11
5
ANNEX 1: 
Proposed Changes 
 
a. 
What are the proposed changes, as applicable, in the project’s development 
objectives, outcomes, design, and/or scope?  
 
The proposed change is to extend the Closing Date of the Morocco - Improved Access to 
Water and Sanitation Services Project (P102527) by 12 months from its current closing 
date of December 31. 2009 to December 31, 2010. 
 
b.  What are the other complementary changes, as applicable:  
 
Institutional arrangements  
 
 
 
 
___Yes    _X
_No 
If, yes, please explain: 
 
Financing mechanism/Conduit  
 
 
 
___Yes    _X
_No  
If, yes, please explain: 
 
Outputs 
       ___Yes 
 
 
 
_X
_No
 
If, yes, please explain: 
 
Project Costs and financing plan (include summary tables) ___Yes     _X
_No 
If, yes, please explain: 
 
Financial management  
 
 
 
 
___Yes    _X
_No 
If, yes, please explain: 
 
Disbursement arrangements 
 
 
 
 
___Yes    _X
_No 
If, yes, please explain: 
 
Procurement 
      ___Yes 
 
 
 
_X
_No 
If, yes, please explain: 
 
Closing 
date 
      _X
_Yes    ___No 
If, yes, please explain: 
 
The extension is necessary to allow the full utilization of the Grant’s proceeds, and to 
achieve the Project’s development objective through the provision of subsidized access to 
water and sanitation to an additional 8500 households. 
 
Implementation 
schedule 
    _X
_Yes    ___No  
If, yes, please explain:
Page  12
6
ANNEX 2: Formal requests for extension of closing date 
Ministry of Interior 
Page  13
7
Ministry of Finance: 
Page  14
8
LYDEC 
Page  15
9
RADEM 
Page  16
10 
 
Amendis-Tangiers 
.
Page  17
11 
 
ANNEX 3: Action Plan 
 
Cover Letter from Ministry of Interior 
 
Page  18
12 
 
Page  19
13 
 
Page  20
14 
 
Action Plan of LYDEC: 
 
Page  21
15 
 
Page  22
16 
 
Page  23
17 
 
Page  24
18 
 
Page  25
19 
 
Page  26
20 
 
Page  27
21 
Page  28
22 
 
Page  29
23 
 
Page  30
24 
 
Action Plan of RADEM 
Page  31
25 
 
Page  32
26 
 
Page  33
27 
COMPTE RENDU SUPERVISION RADEM 
DU 10 DECEMBRE 2009  
 
1. 
Nous avons effectué une mission à  la RADEM dont l’objectif est de i) clarifier les réserves 
du rapport d’audit du projet GPOBA de 2008 et ii) examiner le système de reporting de la 
RADEM. 
 
2.  L’examen du rapport d’audit  a fait ressortir les points suivants qui ont été discutés avec les 
responsables en vue de leur mise à jour : 
 
·
Les états financiers du projet doivent être complétés ou modifiés : les remarques et 
précisions ont été communiquées sur place (1). 
 
·
Les tableaux à modifier sont : 
o
Etat des subventions, 
o
Etat des dépenses, 
o
Etats des ressources et emplois. 
 
·
Une note relative aux principes comptables et à l’analyse des principaux comptes doit être 
préparée et jointe aux états financiers du projet conformément aux termes de référence. 
Cette note sera soumise à l’auditeur et fera partie des états financiers objet de  son opinion. 
Les informations que doit contenir cette note ont été discutées avec les responsables 
RADEM (1). 
 
3.  Les réserves 3 à 4 peuvent donc être levées après ajustement des états financiers. Pour la 
réserve 2, les documents attestant la non objection de la Banque devraient être communiqués 
à
l’auditeur pour lever cette réserve. 
 
4.  La réserve 1 : L’absence de système informatique  traitant les opérations du projet évoqué 
par l’auditeur s’explique par la méthode de retraitement et d’élaboration des états financiers 
du projet. En effet, Les dépenses engagées reportées sur les états financiers du projet sont 
préparées par le responsable technique sur la base des factures et attachements des (Six) 
marchés relatifs aux quartiers OBA, après répartition par i) quartier et par ii) dépenses hors 
site/in site/branchements, sur  Excel. Ces factures bien que comptabilisées par la RADEM et 
bien identifiées n’ont pas été rapprochées de la comptabilité. 
 
Page  34
28 
 
A
notre avis, la fiabilité des  informations reportées sur les états financiers pourrait être 
acceptable si ce rapprochement avec la comptabilité est effectué. D’autant plus, que 
l’essentiel des dépenses (plus que 85%) concernent les factures des six marchés relatifs aux 
quartiers OBA qui sont bien identifiés  
 
Nous avons préparé un tableau permettant d’avoir le total des dépenses par facture (prés de 6 
décomptes) qui sera rapproché avec la comptabilité par RADEM et soumis à l’auditeur, 
accompagné du tableau de répartition de ces dépenses par quartier et par type de dépenses 
(HS/INSITE/BR). 
 
Le délai convenu avec la RADEM pour préparer ces documents, les soumettre à l’auditeur et 
produire un rapport d’audit, est le lundi 21 décembre 209. 
 
Par ailleurs, nous avons attiré l’attention de RADEM sur l’opinion de l’auditeur qui doit être 
conforme aux termes de référence de l’audit (1). 
 
5.  En conclusion, cette situation de confusion est essentiellement liée à l’absence d’une 
comptabilité spécifique au Projet. Il est important de mettre en place cette comptabilité en se 
basant sur la comptabilité générale de la RADEM après paramétrage et codification 
permettant d’extraire les flux propres au projet. 
 
6.  Par ailleurs, la comptabilité analytique de la RADEM permet également de faire un suivi des 
dépenses par TA (travail)> La Radem pourrait donc explorer l’opportunité de se servir de la 
comptabilité analytique pour déterminer les coûts par quartier, préparer les états financiers, 
et faire un rapprochement avec les états préparés par le responsable technique. 
 
(1) 
Le détail de ces éléments fera l’objet d’une notre séparée à la RADEM avant lundi 14 décembre. 
 
Page  35
29 
 
ANNEXE MISSION DU 10 DECEMBRE 2009 
 
1.  Etat des emplois & ressources
La dernière colonne (Prévisions fin de projet) doit correspondre aux prévisions de 
l’ensemble du projet y compris la partie réalisée et pas uniquement les reste à réaliser. 
Le total des fonds reçus doit  être égal au total des ressources, la différence éventuelle 
doit être constatée en Préfinancement. Par ailleurs, si les dépenses sont  hors TVA…….. 
Les emplois peuvent être constatés en Mouvements de la période. Une précision à ce 
titre peut être mentionnée au niveau de la note aux états financiers, pour expliquer que 
ces emplois sont engagés depuis le début du contrat et couvrent la période du ...  au 
31/12/08. 
La contribution des bénéficiaires doit correspondre aux encaissements déterminés à 
partir du système commercial qui gère ces contributions et alimente la comptabilité de 
RADEM. 
 
2. 
Etat des subventions
La colonne subvention reçue doit être renseignée par la subvention encaissée au 
31/12/2008 (les 60% et les 40% éventuellement 2
ème
 tranche pour certaines connexions) 
et le nombre de connexions corresponda
nts. Cette subvention peut être détaillée par 
tranche (60% et 40%) dans la note aux EF (analyse des principaux comptes). 
La subvention demandée au titre de la période correspond aux subventions demandées et 
non encore reçues durant la période. 
Le nombre de connexions réalisées doit être renseigné pour la CU MEKNES. 
La ligne TOTAL en bas du tableau doit être renseignée pour l’ensemble des colonnes. 
 
3. 
Etat des dépenses
Le total des dépenses sur cet état  qui est différent de celui sur le tableau des emplois 
ressources, est à corriger. 
4. 
Note aux Etats financiers
Page  36
30 
 
Cette note peut comprendre les principes comptables utilisés (principe de valorisation, 
schéma d’écriture, comptes utilisés, méthode de répartition (HS/In Site/BR) …) ainsi qu’une 
explication des principaux comptes (Détail des subventions GPOBA par tranche/ 
contribution des bénéficiaires/ détail des subventions reçues/ Préfinancement/ Base des 
Prévisions  et date d’actualisation / Engagements de dépenses (6 marchés) /commentaires 
sur les coûts…). 
 
5. 
Opinion de l’auditeur
L’opinion doit être explicite sur les points évoqués dans les termes de référence de 
l’audit qui doivent être mentionnés dans le rapport. 
Un rapport sur le contrôle interne (Projet) est à préparé par l’auditeur.
Page  37
31 
 
Action Plan of Amendis-Tanger 
Page  38
32 
 
Page  39
33 
 
Page  40
34 
 
Page  41
35 
 
