                                                                                                     93771
Innovative Expansion of Water and Sanitation Services in Morocco                                     April 23, 2012




 Piloting an output-based aid (OBA) approach to extend water and
 sanitation services to the poor in peri-urban areas of Casablanca, Meknes
 and Tangiers


Overview
Peri-urban illegal settlements, which often constitute a substantial portion of major cities, face
a shortage of safe drinking water and sanitation. The Government of Morocco requested a
grant from the Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid (GPOBA) to pilot the introduction of
performance-based subsidies to encourage service expansion. Between 2007–2011, the pilot
has provided subsidized access to water and sanitation, benefitting more than 52,500 people to
date.



Challenge                                              MULTIMEDIA
Morocco is a middle-income country with good
water infrastructure that provides access to safe
drinking water and sanitation to most of the
urban population. However, infrastructure was
lagging in peri-urban illegal settlements, which
often constituted a substantial portion of major
cities; amounting to 1.2 million people in
Casablanca, or 30 percent of the population.
Inhabitants of urban and peri-urban areas relied
on contaminated water from shallow wells, water
providers who charge high unit prices, or
standpipes which required mostly women or
children to queue for hours. Most households
used cesspits or poorly designed septic tanks, risking further
groundwater contamination, while the poorest people often
                                                                    More Results
had no form of sanitation at all. These deficiencies had
serious and direct impacts on people’s health, their ability to

                                                                    5,593
engage in economic activities, and children’s school
attendance. These problems also harmed the finances of
water utilities, which generally attain very low cost recovery
from public standpipes.                                             households acquired access to
                                                                    water supply services in
                                                                    Casablanca
Approach
In 2005, the Government of Morocco and water utility
operators in three cities requested a grant from the GPOBA
to pilot the introduction of performance-based subsidies to         2,909
encourage service expansion using an innovative output-
                                                                 households acquired access to
based aid (OBA) approach.                                        water supply services in
                                                                 Tangiers

The outputs for which subsidies were disbursed were
simultaneous network connections to water supply and

                                                                 2,002
sewerage services for individual households, or in the case
of Meknes, connection to either service. The subsidy was
operator- and service-specific (see Table 1 below) and paid
in local currency in two steps: 60 percent upon certification    households acquired access to
                                                                 water supply services in Meknes
by an Independent Technical Reviewer (ITR) of a working
water and sewerage connection to an eligible household; and
40 percent upon verification by the ITR of at least six months
of sustained service.                                            MORE INFO

                                                                  Morocco Website
The OBA approach helped refocus attention on household            Improved Access to Water and
demand, which led to increased accountability, strengthened       Sanitation Services Project
partnerships between local authorities and operators, and
                                                                  Study: Extending Water
made monitoring of service delivery a priority.
                                                                  Services to the Poor in Urban
                                                                  Areas in Morocco
Results                                                           Story: Residents of Informal
The pilot provided subsidized access to water supply to           Settlements Access Water and
10,504 households and sanitation services to 9,036                Sanitation Services in Morocco
households, hence benefitting more than 52,500 people. The
program contributed to improve women and children’s living
conditions as they were/are the major water
provider/manager in the family.

Households that were simultaneously connected to water supply and sanitation services
through the pilot totaled:

      5,593 in Casablanca.

      2,909 in Tangiers.

      In Meknes, 2,002 households acquired access to water supply services and 534 to
      sanitation service.

Table 1: Subsidy Levels per Connection (Click to Enlarge)




Voices

     I moved to Lamkensa. There was no water, no sanitation. I
   had to take my jerrycans and wait in line to get water from the
   well. For three years we lived like that.
           — Fatima Louada lives in Lamkensa, an informal area at
                 the edge of Casablanca with more than 7,300 homes.




     Before, without water, it was difficult to plan or do things. I
   felt doors were closed, but they are now finally open.
   Everything became possible. 
        — Hassana Jaatouti lives in the outskirts of Meknes. Before
            the project was implemented, she relied on scarce and
                                         contaminated well water.



Bank Contribution
The pilot program was funded through a US$7 million grant from the GPOBA – a multi-donor
trust fund administered by the World Bank. The total project cost was assessed at about
US$24 million during preparation.
The built-in incentives of the OBA approach were specifically designed to overcome traditional
obstacles to expanding services in informal neighborhoods, namely: inability to afford
connection costs; complex technical and administrative obstacles to infrastructure development
in poor unzoned areas; and reluctance of national and local governments to fund subsidy
programs with no accountability or guarantee of results.

Partners
The pilot, a first in the Bank’s Middle East and North Africa Region, was implemented between
2007–2011 by private operators Lyonnaise de Eaux de Casablanca (LYDEC) in Casablanca,
Amendis in Tangiers, and public utility Régie Autonome de Distribution d’Eau et d’Électricité de
Meknès (RADEM) in Meknes. Operators were proactive and dynamic in their efforts to
integrate new customers. The operators developed approaches such as sending “mobile
agencies vans” with dedicated teams to the marketplaces of targeted neighborhoods, where
they could record demand from potential beneficiaries who might not easily travel to one of the
operator’s agencies.


Moving Foward
All parties agree that the OBA approach has proven an efficient and powerful tool to extend
services to poor peri-urban areas in a cost-efficient and sustainable manner. Beyond the pilot,
the need for additional connections remains great. At the request of the government, the World
Bank helped plan a nationwide scale-up program to address the ongoing needs of large
municipalities. The program would also aim to strengthen coordination between institutions in
charge of the different aspects of peri-urban utility services, and reform tariff and connection
fee structures, to prevent any further expansion of peri-urban neighborhoods without water and
sanitation.
