Page  1
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
PROJECT APPRAISAL-COMMITMENT DOCUMENT 
 
MOROCCO - IMPROVED ACCESS TO WATER AND SEWERAGE SERVICES 
PROJECT (P102527) 
 
A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE 
 
1. Country and sector issues.  
 
Solid sector performance
:
Access to potable water and improved sanitation in Morocco 
increased significantly in the past decade and reached 98 and 95 percent respectively in urban 
areas, as per official statistics. Most urban utilities provide 24 hr continuous supply. However, 
statistics do not reflect the fact that slums and illegal settlements scattered in metropolitan areas 
are deprived of access, particularly to individual household connections and connection to 
sewerage networks. These poor neighborhoods can occupy a substantial portion of metropolitan 
areas, for example, in Casablanca, as the extreme case, 1.2 million, or 30 percent of the 
population in the greater Casablanca area, live in such illegal settlements.   
 
A
sector in transition
:
Improving access to basic infrastructure services and addressing housing 
shortages have attained new and high priority for the Government. In the current delicate 
geopolitical situation in the Middle East and North Africa, and following a strong showing of the 
Islamist parties in the September 2002 parliamentary elections, the Government's priorities are to 
reduce unemployment and raise living
 
standards through accelerated economic growth. The 
shock of the Casablanca suicide bombings in May 2003 further strengthened the determination of 
Moroccan policymakers to improve essential services to the urban poor, not limited to water 
supply and sanitation, but also health care, education, housing, and other basic infrastructure--in 
order to eliminate some of the conditions in which radicalism has thrived in Morocco. The 
government, through the leadership by the King, has acknowledged the dire living conditions of 
urban and peri-urban slums and rural communities, and launched the National Initiative for 
Human Development (INHD) in May 2005.  The Initiative aims to promote systematic and 
sustainable development, and has provided a strong momentum for municipalities and utilities to 
explore mechanisms to expand access to basic infrastructure among the poorest. The initiative is 
broadly supported by the various development partners, including the World Bank.
 
Sector reform program supported by Development Policy Loan
 (DPL) by the World Bank: 
the Government, in recognition of the current constraints faced by the sector, has approached the 
World Bank for technical assistance in the reform of the sector, in particular funding of social 
mandates, the regulatory framework for utilities, and the market structure in the sector. Extensive 
analysis is ongoing that the government has taken on board in structuring a reform program 
which the Bank will support through a DPL loan.   
2. Rationale for GPOBA involvement 
 
49289 
Page  2
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
Various barriers to access to water supply and sanitation services have been readily identified in 
analytic studies covering the sector in Morocco
1
,
most prominently:  
 
ƒ
Weak financial incentives for utilities to connect and high cost of connections to 
users
:
Financial incentives for utilities to connect marginalized households are weakened 
by current tariff structures: retail tariffs are designed as increasing block tariffs, with 
monthly consumption below 8m
3
typically below OM costs and commonly even below 
bulk water purchase costs. Therefore, new users typically cause financial losses to 
utilities. This situation is in particular affecting the financial viability of public utilities:  
while private concessions have been able to obtain contractually agreed tariff increases 
that compensate for deterioration in average tariff revenues by adding lower consumption 
households, public utilities have not been able to increase average tariff levels to reflect 
the changing composition of their customer base or to pass through increases in input 
costs. Moreover, average water tariffs remain low and do not allow financing of major 
expansion. Nevertheless, under the INDH initiative, all participating utilities have 
specifically committed to the government to connect households located in INDH 
communities within a prescribed timeframe. 
 
ƒ
Funding of expansion has been by connection fees for new customers
.
Financial 
assessments show that revenues from various connection fees payable by new users 
(rather than tariff revenues) cover up to 90% of total investments undertaken by (public) 
utilities, the ratio is lower but still significant (at about 60% for private concessions). 
While this approach has worked very well in the past with upper and middle income 
households and enabled utilities to reduce their long-term financing needs, connection 
costs have become prohibitive for lower income households despite payment plans for up 
to five years offered by most utilities. The government is fully aware of these constraints, 
and, as part of the dialogue surrounding the DPL, has committed to reviewing the 
financing of the sector, including a review of tariff structures and levels as well as 
increasing go
vernment funding to the sector for “public good” investments.  
 
ƒ
Property titling, location of premises close to existing infrastructure, housing 
standards and provision of sanitation: 
 Until recently, slum settlements were deemed 
illegal, and were not included in formal urban planning, nor were eligible for allocation 
of funds to finance expansion of services to these areas. A number of formal 
requirements were to be met by households wishing to get connected. As part of GoM’s 
“National Initiative for Human Development” (INDH), these preconditions for 
entitlement for social connection programs have been waived, eligibility is now solely 
based on the location of premises within assigned “INDH” zones. These “INDH” zones 
have been refined with the assistance of the World Bank based on poverty maps, which 
allow, through a statistical correlation of household survey and census data, a highly 
accurate targeting of low income neighborhoods.  
 
The 
primary rationale for GPOBA
 involvement is that the proposed pilot provides an 
opportunity to a) develop a new approach for funding enhanced access to infrastructure services 
that provides financial incentives for utilities to connect households in impoverished areas (over 
and above the political will for doing so), b) relaxes the constraints faced by the users, ie 
unaffordable connection fees and procedural barriers and c), to test the novel and innovative 
targeting approach for public funds represented by the use of “poverty maps”. 
1
REDI 
Page  3
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
Secondly, the proposed project will have 
direct positive impact
 for the beneficiaries of GPOBA 
funds who will be provided access to network water services and sewerage services. Beyond the 
initial set of beneficiaries, and given the momentum provided by the INDH, there is a significant 
potential for
 
scaling up an OBA approach in Casablanca and Tanger as well as replication/ 
adaptation for other Moroccan public utilities. Initial discussions with government authorities and 
other donors have confirmed a significant interest to scale up an OBA subsidy program for the 
sector that could complement broader reforms in the financing of the sector.  
 
Thirdly, the proposal is innovative and provides a 
unique learning opportunity
 for GPOBA: the 
proposal (for Casablanca and Tanger) is tailored to a form of Public-Private-Partnership common 
in the water sector in Africa, commonly called 
“affermage”, whereby private operators take on 
commercial risks related to the delivery of services but do not take on, or only to a limited and 
well circumscribed extent, obligations for investment and the risks associated with financing of 
investment. In the cases of Tanger and Casablanca, investments other than those clearly assigned 
to the operator by contract (which the extensions of networks in question for the purpose of this 
project are not included in) are financed from a “Works Fund” that derives revenues from 
contributions to the Works Fund by newly connected households (a surcharge waived under the 
INDH and this GPOBA pilot) and public contributions. Investments are managed by the private 
firms in accordance with Moroccan regulations for public procurement subject to the control of 
municipal contract administration units. However, financing extension of networks is not a 
contractual obligation for the providers.  
 
So far, OBA approaches have been tested mostly with private contracts that allocate the full risks 
to the private sector, including the responsibility to bear financing risks. This approach has clear 
limitations in its applicability to frontier countries, in particular in Africa. The proposed pilot, a 
departure from the “pure” OBA model, would explore such approaches where performance risks 
are borne jointly between (local) government and private firms. The proposed pilot would test the 
viability of passing performance risks from development agencies and national governments to a 
Public Private Partnership between private firms and municipalities, with both parties bearing the 
risks for non-performance. The third sponsor would be a public utility, allowing GPOBA to 
compare how OBA approaches work in the context of purely public sector incumbents and 
drawing comparisons between the performance of fully public utilities and PPPs. The case of 
RADEM, in Meknes, will be the first pilot to be implemented where GPOBA funds will be used 
to facilitate provision of improved services by a public utility and, in particular, to facilitate a 
public utility’s access to private financing.   
 
3. Consistency with CAS 
 
The proposed pilot is consistent with the WB CAS. The Bank and GOM selected water as an 
entry point towards the CAS goals of i) accelerated growth and job creation, and ii) reduction of 
poverty and exclusion, goals to be achieved, among other means through better governance. 
Strategic Objective no. 4 of the CAS (or “water pillar”) thus aims at “improving water 
management and access to water and sanitation services”, with three main outcome expectations, 
i.e. a) to improve the legal, financial, and institutional framework of the water sector; b) to 
improve access to service, and [wastewater] treatment coverage in targeted basins; and, c) to 
improve technical and financial performance of water sector operators. 
 
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
Page  4
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
1. 
Project objective:  
 
Objective of the project is to provide sustainable access to combined water and sewerage services 
to peri-
urban “quartiers” with high levels of “vulnerable” households, ie with household incomes 
falling under  295 US$/month (150% of the poverty line of Dh 1687) or about US$60/cap/month. 
The project will benefit about 11,300 households (56,000 inhabitants). The total amount of 
GPOBA subsidies requested is US$ 
7,041,915.
 
2.  
Project design and institutional arrangements. 
 
The project will be coordinated and administered by the Ministry of Interior, and implemented by 
the three incumbent providers of water supply and sewerage services in the three selected urban 
centers, namely Casablanca, Tangiers, and Meknes. All participating utilities would promote the 
“INDH-GPOBA connection program” to households in the selected “quartiers”, would receive 
applications from individual households, make connections and be reimbursed a pre-agreed 
amount upon evidence of a functional and used connection. The pilot project would make 
payments to service providers out of a common “OBA fund” that would form the basis for a later 
scale up into a national OBA program.   
 
Investment costs and subsidy requirements have been carefully vetted and reviewed
:
Investment 
costs and subsidy needs have been proposed by all three incumbents based on indicative designs 
and implementation plans. The investment costs have been subject to an independent review and 
benchmarking for the purpose of ensuring prudency and efficiency by an engineering firm. The 
agreed capital expenditure, ranging from US$83/cap to US$123/cap for water supply and 
US$200/cap to US$280/cap for sewerage are well in line with various global assessments and 
estimates
2
for water (US$50-200) and sewerage (US$120-300).   
 
Casablanca 
 
Tanger 
 
Meknes 
 
Ouislane/ Meknes 
 
Dkhissa/  Dar oum sultan/  
Sidi slimane moul kifane/  
Ait Ouallal
 
Capital expenditure per 
water connection in 
US$ (before tax, 
financing, inflation 
adjustment) 
 
523  
 
417 
 
425 
 
750 
Capital expenditure per 
sewerage connection in 
US$ (before tax, 
financing, inflation and 
uptake adjustment) 
 
1,055 
 
1,314 
 
1,414
 
na 
2
World Water Council: Costing MDG Target 10 on Water Supply and Sanitation: Comparative Analysis, 
Obstacles and Recommendations, March 2006 
Page  5
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
Total adjusted capital 
expenditure in US$ per 
water/sewerage 
connection 
 
2,035 
 
3,044 
 
1,931 
 
799 
Total user contribution 
for combined 
connection in US$ 
(NPV; net of  taxes) 
 
840 
 
841 
 
810 
 
148 
GPOBA subsidy 
requirement for water 
connection in US$ 
 
162 
 
163
 
158 
 
591 
GPOBA subsidy 
requirement per 
sewage connection in 
US$ 
 
401  
 
537 
 
869  
 
na 
Total GPOBA subsidy 
requirement (% of total 
adjusted capital 
expenditure) 
 
563 (28%) 
 
728 (24%) 
 
1,027 (53%) 
 
591 (74%) 
Subsidies are carefully targeted
.
Absent any robust mechanisms to target individual households, 
the project follows a geographic targeting methodology based on recognized international good 
practice. Within each of the th
ree service areas, areas (“quartiers”) with a high concentration of 
poverty and vulnerability to poverty have been identified through the INDH program, informed 
by an extensive poverty mapping exercise supported by the World Bank. Only household 
connections in these areas would be eligible for reimbursement through GPOBA. Poverty levels 
are differing across the selected areas, from the Meknes areas with the highest poverty incidence, 
followed by Casablanca and more moderate poverty levels in the Tangier areas.   
 
Casablanca Tangier  Meknes 
Community Larhaouynes 
Lamkensa 
Bni 
Makada 
Charf-
Moghog
a
Boukhal
ef 
Tanger 
Medina 
Ouislane/ 
Meknes 
Dkhissa/  
Dar oum 
sultan/  
Sidi 
slimane 
moul 
kifane/  
Ait 
Ouallal 
#
HHs to be connected; 
(persons/HH) 
6,213 
(4.8) 
2,791 
(4.8)  
602 
(4.7) 
1689 
(5.6) 
Page  6
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
Total number of 
expected beneficiaries 
~30,000 ~13,400 
~2,800 
~9500 
Share of households 
with household income 
below vulnerability 
line of about US$ 
295/month 
45% 
32% 
20% 35% 15% 57% 
83% 
Proposed subsidy levels vary among the schemes, but are carefully sized to reflect willingness 
and ability to pay
:
Household expenditure levels for water consumption in Morocco are, on average, well below 
WHO's generic guidelines for affordability (of 5 percent of total household income for water 
supply and sanitation). Recent surveys suggest that as of 2002, water supply represented 1 to 1.4 
percent of household spending for households with individual household connections (average 
expense of Dh 66 to 98/person/year or Dh 30-45/hh/month). However, households without access 
to individual household connections (partially) that rely on alternate sources of water providers 
appear to pay more for their water consumption. While typically in the range of Dh 30-40/m3, 
cost of water deliveries can reach Dh 80/m3. Assuming usage of about 40 lcd and a household 
size of 5.6 persons, water consumption can represent a monthly household expenditure ranging 
from Dh350-500. As a result, based on practical experience gathered by all three utilities with 
previous social connection programs it appears that monthly household payments of up to 150Dh 
would indeed be affordable to a majority of households and reflect the willingness to pay for 
improved service for a sizeable portion of unconnected low income households.   
 
Under the proposed project, all utilities would require significant user contributions, ranging from 
27% to 60% of investment costs (for water) and 20% to 34% of investment costs (for sewerage). 
All utilities will offer financing facilities for user contributions over a tenor of 7-10 years. The 
proposed payment plans would require individual households to make monthly payments of 
Dh50/110 in Meknes (rural/urban) and uniform monthly payments of Dh130 in Casablanca and 
Dh100 in Tanger. Over and above the monthly payment towards one-off user contributions, 
households would pay applicable rates for consumption. Estimated monthly bills for water 
consumption would be in the order of Dh30-45 per household.  
 
Upfront allocation of funds and streamlined disbursement arrangements.
 GPOBA subsidy funds 
have been pre-allocated to individual projects during project design. A need for reallocation of 
funds may arise if uptake of connections falls substantially behind projections for either of the 
utilities. Such reallocation would be decided by the Minister of Interior (MoI) and be subject to a 
no-objection of the World Bank.   Disbursement would be made to the utilities through direct 
payments.  
 
Page  7
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
Page  8
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
C. IMPLEMENTATION 
 
1. Milestones for project implementation. 
 
Grant effectiveness: Sept. 2006 
Project completion: Sept. 2009 
 
2. Partnership arrangements  
 
Development partners are not directly involved in the project implementation phase. Several 
other donors have been involved in the preparation phase of the project and may take a role in a 
scale up phase: AFD has early on been involved in reviewing options for OBA in Casablanca and 
has funded some of the preparatory studies for LYDEC. The Millennium Challenge Corporation 
(MCC) has been briefed repeatedly and may be in a position to assist in the scale up of the pilot 
program, if deemed successful. Progress update reports and findings by the independent auditor 
retained by the Ministry for Interior will be shared with the MCC and other donors.  
 
3. Institutional and implementation arrangements. 
 
The implementing agency and grant recipient for the project would be the Ministry of Interior, 
(“Direction des Regies et Services Concedes”). It’s responsibilities will include the  
 
ƒ
Coordination of agreeing with utilities on connection targets
.
All utilities have 
submitted proposals for specific connection targets for both water and sewerage services 
for INDH communities in their respective services areas. These targets have been verified 
in the course of project preparation and agreed upon by all parties. However, should 
deviations from these targets become necessary because of significant delays by either of 
the utilities to sign up customers for the INDH connections, revisions to these targets 
shall be coordinated by the MoI and submitted to the World Bank for no-objection.    
 
ƒ
Monitoring and verification of outputs
:
All utilities will retain metering and billing 
records as evidence for connections made and services rendered to target households. The 
final responsibility for authentication and verification of those records as well as the 
connections made and satisfactory quality for services rests with MoI who will contract 
monitoring obligations to a third party independent auditor and - at its discretion – rely on 
input from the contract administration units (“service permanente”) for the two private 
concessionaires.  
 
ƒ
Consolidation and Authorization for requests for disbursement of funds:
 The 
utilities will prepare independently quarterly requests for disbursement of funds based on 
progress made in achieving outputs. Requests for disbursement and quarterly submission 
of summary output reports will be authorized and consolidated by the MoI for submission 
to the World Bank Group. Payments to the utilities will subsequently be made by direct 
payment to the utilities. 
 
The project would be implemented by three existing water utilities with a strong track record 
mitigating against implementation risks. A fiduciary assessment, including a procurement 
practice and financial management assessment of all three utilities is currently underway, and 
satisfactory outcome will be a condition precedent for the GPOBA grant agreement to be signed. 
The three sponsors of the pilots are subsidiaries of reputable international water firms and a 
public sector utility (“regie”): 
Page  9
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
ƒ
Amendis
:
Amendis is a majority-owned (51%) subsidiary of Veolia Environment, which 
manages water, sewerage and electricity distribution services in Tangiers and Tetouan 
since 2002 under two 25-year contracts that were awarded after competitive tender. It 
supplies services to 220,000 water subscribers and 280,000 electricity subscribers, i.e. 
around 1.1 million people. 
 
ƒ
Lyonnaise des Eaux de Casablanca (LYDEC)
:
Lydec (Lyonnaise des Eaux de 
Casablanca), responsible for water, sewerage and electricity distribution services for 
Greater Casablanca since 1997 through a negotiated agreement that paved the way for 
broader PSP involvement in the sector, was partially floated on the Casablanca stock 
exchange in July 2005. Par
ent company Suez now holds a 51% stake in the company’s 
capital with institutional investors and the Moroccan public accounting for the other 49%. 
 
ƒ
Regie Autonome de Distribution d’Eau et d’Electricite de Meknes (RADEM
): 
RADEM has been consistently one of the better performing regies in Morocco, has been 
able to access the commercial credit market in the past and is the beneficiary of an 
ongoing donor funded program (EIB/AfD) to expand sewerage treatment facilities for 
Meknes, which has also served to reinforce its institutional capacity.   
 
The three participating utilities will bear responsibility for the following components of the 
project: 
 
ƒ
Assessment of demand for connections and marketing/ outreach efforts to sign up 
households for the subsidized social connection plan
:
All utilities have undertaken 
market surveys and provided GPOBA with demand projections (Table 1). Under the 
project, all utilities will undertake marketing activities in order to inform households of 
the existence and terms of the subsidized connection program and will sign up 
households to their respective programs. All utilities will provide GPOBA with semi-
annual updates on these projections, eventual discrepancies of actual customer sign-up 
with projections and, where so required, proposed additional actions to mobilize lagging 
customer demand.   
 
ƒ
Management and implementation of works as required for establishing functioning 
household connections:
 The participating utilities have a proven track record in 
planning, overseeing and executing extension of water and sewerage networks and 
provision of water and sewerage services. All participating utilities will bear sole 
responsibilities for arranging for pre-financing of works and the pre-financing of 
household connection fees and the design and construction of facilities necessary to allow 
access to services for households that have signed up for social connections. All 
participating utilities have procurement policies in place that have been found acceptable 
to the World Bank and will bear sole responsibility for abiding by these policies.    
 
ƒ
Primary monitoring and household certification of outputs (active social connection 
accounts)
:
The participating distribution utilities will then proceed to connect residential 
users to the network and, for each connected household, collect connection certificates 
signed by beneficiary households confirming that households have indeed been 
connected in accordance with applicable rules and regulations and at the terms for social 
connections. The participating utilities will furthermore retain for inspection billing and 
collection documentation for at least two billing periods. The participating utilities will 
provide semi annual summary output reports, including the number of households 
Page  10
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
connected per reporting period, the location of households within INDH communities, 
billing and payment records as stipulated, and will bear responsibilities for retaining 
original documents for audits at the discretion of the Ministry of Interior and the World 
Bank.   
 
ƒ
Provision of ongoing services
:
All participating utilities have a proven track record for 
the provision of water and sewerage services and do so under a well-established 
regulatory framework. After having made the connection to a household, participating 
distribution utilities will provide services to connected households as per the applicable 
regulatory provisions. Households will be responsible for paying tariffs for consumption 
and will enjoy customer rights and obligations as per the applicable regulations with 
regard to quality of service and tariffs. 
 
ƒ
Request for disbursements
:
All participating utilities will submit requests for 
disbursement for the endorsement by the Ministry of Interior. GPOBA will subsequently 
make direct payments to the participating distribution utilities. 
 
4. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results, including initial base-line data in relation to 
the applicable parameters.
 
The MoI will have primary responsibility for the monitoring and certification of outputs achieved 
under the project. To ensure that monitoring would be aligned with the current regulatory 
arrangements (but reinforced through the involvement of the national government and 
independent auditors), the MoI may delegate part of its responsibilities to the local contract 
administration units for the private sector concessions (“service permanente”) in Casablanca and 
Tangier at its discretion. This includes: 
 
ƒ
Upon quarterly submission of summary output reports by the participating utilities, the MoI 
will review these reports within ten days of submission, and certify the eligibility of the 
connected households for reimbursement by GPOBA based on submitted documentation 
relating to number of connections having been made and on the location of the connected 
households. For the respective private concessions, Ministry of Interior may do so based in 
part on prior certification/verification by the respective contract administration unit (“Service 
Permanente”) 
 
ƒ
The MoI will also confirm that services provided by the respective utility during the time 
period in question has substantially met the quality-of-service standards stipulated by 
applicable legal and contract provisions subject to prior confirmation by the respective 
contract administration unit (“Service Permanente”) for the two private concessions. 
 
ƒ
To provide for an independent verification of outputs, MoI will be responsible for the 
contracting of an independent audit firm that would conduct annual ex-post reviews of the 
completeness, accuracy and authenticity of documentation provided by the participating 
distribution utilities as well as undertake ex-post physical spot checks for a meaningful and 
random sample of connections.  
 
Outputs are clearly defined: Connections would be eligible for GPOBA subsidy payment 
provided 
 
Page  11
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
i. 
the location of the connected household in the defined INDH zone  
ii. 
the connection is new, and made after the signing of the grant agreement with GPOBA; 
iii.  the service has been used at the connection for a period of at least six months prior to the 
application for payment, as evidenced by metering, billing and collection records; 
iv.  the connection is of the approved specification as per the applicable laws and regulations 
for the water sector in Morocco; 
 
Institutional arrangements for monitoring are well defined and complement existing monitoring 
arrangements:  
 
Under the  existing contracts and the current regulatory framework for public utilities, 
performance of service providers is monitored at the local level (in the case of private providers 
through decentralized contract management units), an arrangement that has broadly worked to the 
satisfaction of the Moroccan authorities. However, under the proposed OBA arrangements, 
municipalities (through the pre-
financing provided by the “Fonds de Travaux”) would share in 
the performance risks transferred by the OBA scheme, raising concerns about possible conflicts 
of interest should outputs not materialize as anticipated. Therefore, monitoring at the municipal 
level as per the current regulatory arrangements would be complemented by an independent 
audit/review of outputs administered at the national government level, specifically the Ministry of 
Interior.  
 
Under the proposed pilot, the Ministry of Interior (“
Direction des Regies et Services 
Conced
es”)
,
will retain an auditor for a technical audit and verification of outputs claimed by the 
providers, the selection of which would be subject to the no-objection of the World Bank. This 
verification would primarily include the completeness and accuracy of records to be retained by 
the utilities with regard to the location of the connected household in the defined INDH zone, the 
acceptance of the household of the condition as functional (triggering an advance of 60% of the 
agreed payment amount), and metering and billing records covering six months and evidencing 
consumption and bill payment (triggering disbursement of the remaining 40% and payment in 
full). 
 
It is of great importance to GPOBA to monitor and document sustainability and impact of the 
project even beyond the disbursement period of the project. To this extent, each of the utilities 
will prepare semiannual reports in a format acceptable to GPOBA (and MoI will consolidate 
these reports and furnish to the World Bank) over the duration of the project, for use by GPOBA, 
including, but not limited to the following indicators: 
 
-
Level of defined "output" achieved, e.g. number of connections made 
-
Total number of beneficiary households 
-
Annual reports on service quality (as required under the applicable regulatory 
regime) 
-
Average monthly consumption per beneficiary household 
-
Average expenditure on service by beneficiary households as a percentage of total hh 
expenditure 
-
Average household expenditure on alternative water sources prior to connection to 
water services as indicated by household 
-
Average residential tariff for beneficiary households 
-
Total project costs as per actual incurred expenditure (breakdown into components) 
-
Actual project costs per household or connection and discrepancies with estimated 
project costs  
 
Page  12
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
5. Project team. 
 
Project implementation in compliance with World Bank procurement guidelines, financial and 
fiduciary management rules will be managed by a team, consisting of:  
 
Pier Francesco Mantovani,  
Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist  
MNSIF (TTL) 
Dirk Sommer,    
 
Sr. Infrastructure Specialist  
 
IEF 
Xavier Chauvot De Beauchene,  ET Consultant    
 
 
MNSIF
 
Alaleh Motamedi,  
 
Procurement Specialist   
 
World Bank Office 
Rabat - Morocco 
Hocine Chalal
,
Sr. Environmental Specialist  
 
MNSRE 
Siaka Bakayoko,  
 
Sr Financial Management Specialist  
MNAFM 
Tiguist 
Fisseha 
  JPA 
    MNSRE 
 
Page  13
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
TECHNICAL ANNEXES 
 
1.  Project costs schedule of OBA payments to be required from GPOBA (Window 3) 
 
Total GPOBA funding requirement for the project is US$
7,041,915
,
including US$
6,741,915 
for 
subsidy payments, US$300,000 for an independent audit firm and US$120,000 for project 
supervision. 
 
It is anticipated that the implementation of the project and disbursement of funds would be over a 
period of 30 months, from effectiveness of the Grant Agreement.  
 
The water utilities have each provided to GPOBA a tentative breakdown and schedule of 
connections likely to be made as result of the project. Corresponding to the resulting demand, the 
actual breakdown of connections per utility and timing may differ from these indicative figures. 
Therefore, the Ministry of Interior, in coordination with participating utilities, would provide 
semi-annual update reports to GPOBA and propose to GPOBA, 18 months after the effectiveness 
of the Grant Agreement, a final reallocation of funds, to allow for the possibility of weaker than 
anticipated demand among some utilities) until committed GPOBA funds are exhausted.  
 
2.  Financial management (OP/BP 10.02).  
 
The participating utilities will maintain an administrative unit responsible for financial and budget 
management, reporting and accounting.  These units will utilize their respective financial 
management and reporting systems, and will manage their accounts in accordance with their 
internal procedures.   
 
Annual financial statements of the participating distribution utilities will be audited by an 
independent auditor in accordance with International Standards on Auditing issued by the 
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).  The Ministry of Interior will submit the annual 
audit reports of the participating utilities to the World Bank for review, and will maintain project 
financial and auditing records for a minimum period of five years after completion of the project.  
 
3.  Procurement (OM, July 15, 2002).  
 
Procurement for the acquisition of goods and small works for installation services, including 
shopping and direct contracting, will be carried out in accordance with the operational manuals, 
internal control procedures, standard bidding, and contract documents of each participating utility 
to the extent acceptable to the World Bank and with modifications as required by the World 
Bank. A review of procurement practices by all three utilities is currently underway. The timing 
and sequencing of procurement and contracting decisions, including procurement thresholds, 
payment schedules to contractors, and choice of contracts for making the household connections 
will be the discretion of the participating distribution utilities, and preparation of detailed 
procurement plans will not be required.   
 
The bidding documents will include specifications for construction works as defined by 
Moroccan legislation and regulations as well as technical description of works (based on the 
technical specifications provided by the participating distribution utilities). The specifications, 
among others, will include requirements for the compliance of the installations services with 
Moroccan laws and regulations for the water sector governing environmental, technical, 
metrology and quality standards, and in accordance to highest ethical standards and professional 
integrity.    
Page  14
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
Procurement for the selection of the independent audit firm for services of ex post output 
verification, under terms of Reference acceptable to the World Bank, will be carried out by the 
Ministry for Interior in accordance to terms of reference and in compliance with World Bank 
procedures.   
 
4.  Disbursement (OP/BP 12.00). 
 
GPOBA will advance funds to a Special or Escrow Account denominated in USD for project 
disbursement and held by the GoM.  
 
Proceeds from the Special or Escrow Account will be transferred to the accounts held in 
commercial banks by the participating utilities on the basis of disbursement requests prepared by 
each utility and supported by output-based reports as indicated in the Operational Manual. The 
participating distribution utilities will be liable for payments of applicable duties and taxes on all 
goods and works for the project.  All foreign exchange risks associated with the project will be 
borne by the participating water utilities. 
 
5.  Environment (OP/BP 4.01).  
 
Implementation of all works will be in accordance with the environmental procedures by each 
participating utilities, as acceptable to the World Bank, and as annexed to the Operational Manual 
 
Page  15
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
6. Economic cost benefit assessment 
 
The project will generate total economic benefits in the amount of about US$5,100 per household 
(4.8 persons) afforded improved water supply and sewerage services via a network connection 
(US$830 per annum; discounted at 10%; over a period of ten years). The largest element is 
convenience time savings, at US$3,944. With convenience time savings discounted by 50%, total 
economic benefits drop to US$3,128 (US$507 per household, annum) and by 100%, to still 
US$1,143 (US$186 per household, per annum). The ERR for the entire project is 25% after 
discounting 50% of convenience savings and reducing by 50% the total benefits accruing to 
water-only connections (in rural areas of Meknes). 
 
TABLE 1: ECONOMIC BENEFITS PER CAPITA SERVED BY WATER/SEWERAGE 
CONNECTION 
 
Annual number of diarrhoeal cases averted 
0.54 
Annual productive days gained due to less diarrhoeal illness 
1.65 
Annual time gain due to more convenient WSS facilities (hrs saved) 
159 
Annual school days gained due to less diarroheal illness 
0.24 
Annual baby days gained due to less diarroheal illness 
1.86 
Annual health sector treatment costs saved per capita (US$) 
7.44 
Annual patient treatment costs saved per capita (US$)  
0.37 
Value of adult productive days* gained due to less diarroheal illness per capita (US$) per annum 
1.1 
Value of children school days gained due to less diarroheal illness (US$) per annum 
0.02 
Value of baby days gained due to less diarroheal illness per capita (US$) per annum 
0.51 
Annual value of time savings per capita (US$) 
133.76
Annual value of averted deaths per capita (US$) 
7.2 
Total economic benefits of intervention per capita per annum (US$) 
172.6
Total economic benefits of intervention per household per annum (US$) 
828.3
Source
:
Hutton, G., and Haller, L., 
Evaluation of the Costs and Benefits of Water and Sanitation 
Improvements at the Global Level.
 2004, Water, Sanitation and Health Protection of the Human 
Environment, World Health Organization; data are for WHO EMR-D region, including Morocco; team 
calculations;  
Page  16
GPOBA Commitment Paper: Morocco Urban WS&S Access Pilots                       August 21, 2006
 
*
Benefits were converted into monetary amounts using assumptions about the value of identified benefits 
such as productive days gained, using the minimum wage as the measure of value. Infant days gained due 
to less diarroheal illness are valued at 50% of the minimum wage rate. 
 
TABLE 2: ECONOMIC COSTS PER HOUSEHOLD SERVED BY WATER/SEWERAGE 
CONNECTION 
 
Casablanca
Tanger
Meknes 
 
Total adjusted capital expenditure in US$ per water/sewerage 
connection before taxes (14%) 
 
1,750 
 
2,618 
 
1,661 
 
687 
Total user contribution for combined connection in US$ (NPV; 
before taxes) 
 
840 
 
841 
 
810 
 
148 
Total subsidy per water/sewerage connection before taxes in US$ 
910 
1777 
851 
539 
