Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7425-STV
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 20, 1988
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has q restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only In the perfounace of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
East Caribbean Dollar
EC$l.00 = US$ 0.37
US$1.00 = EC$ 2.70
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 inch  = 2.5 centimeters (cm)
1 foot  = 30.5 cm
1 mile  = 1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre  = 0.405 hectare (ha)
1 acre-foot  = 1,233 cubic meters (m3)
1 pound = 0.454 kilogram (kg)
ABBREVIATIONS
AIs       Agricultural Instructors
CARDI     Caribbean Agricultural Research and Development
Institute
CATCO     Caribbean Agricultural Trading Company
CDB       Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
DEVCO     Development Corporation
ECA       Eastern Caribbean Agencies
ECCB      East Caribbean Central Bank
EEC       European Economic Community
GESCO     General Equipment and Services Corporation
MCW       Ministry of Communications and Works
MTIA      Ministry of Trade, Industry and Agriculture
NCB       National Commercial Bank
OAS       Organization of American States
ODA       Overseas Development Agency
OECS      Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
ORD       Organization for Rural Development
SVBGA     St. Vincent Banana Growers Association
SVMC      St. Vincent Marketing Corporation
-USAID    U.S. Aid for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.         LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................................                    1
II.        THE AGRICULTURtL SECTOR ...................................                    4
Role in the National Economy ..............................                    4
Sector's Performance, Potential and Constraints ...........                    4
Market Prospects for Major Commodities ....................                    5
Institutional Framework ...................................                    7
Government's Agricultural Development Strategy ............    8
Rationale for Bank and IDA Involvement ....................                    9
III.       THE PROJECT ...............................................    9
Background ................................................    9
Objectives and Description ................................    9
Project Cost and Financing ................................   12
Procurement ...............................................   12
Disbursement ..............................................   13
Project Organization ......................................   14
Environmental Impact ......................................   16
Progress Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation .............   16
Accounts and Audits .......................................   17
Benefits ..................................................   17
Risk ......................................................   19
IV.        AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................   19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission wl.ich visited
St. Vincent and the Grenadines in May 1988. The mission comprised
Messr./Mmes. T. Haile-Mariam (Team Leader/Ag. Economist), A. Velarde
(Financial Analyst), S. Demissie (Roads Engineer), and D. Masterton
(Consultant/Agriculturalist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (cont.)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.        Detailed Features of the Project ..........................  22
Attachment: Sample Lease Agreement .......................  29
Tables
(1)  Existing Roads in the Project Area ...................  34
(2)  Project Staffing .....................................  35
(3)  List of Vehicles and Equipment .......................  36
(4)  Pzoject Cost Estimate ................................  37
(5)  Estimated Schedule of Expenditures ...................  38
(6)  Estimated Schedule of Disbur3ement of Bank Loan
and IDA Credit .....................................  40
Chart 1: Project Implementation Schedule ..................  41
2.        Benefits and Justification ................................  42
Tables
(1)    Agroclimatic Zones and Possible Land Use ...........  51
(2)    Evolution of Cropping Pattern Under Project ........  52
(3)    Buildup of Crop Yields .............................  54
(4)    Development of Crop Output .........................  55
(5)    Farmgate Prices Used for Financial and
Economic Analysis ................................  57
(6)    Farm Labor Requirements ............................  59
(7)     Input Costs ...........                          .........  60
(8-12) Annual Income and Operating Expenses for
Models 1-5 ...........                                      61
(13)   Economic Cost and Benefits Streams .66
3.        Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File ..67
Map: IBRD No. 20597



ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
I. LOAN/CREDIT AHID PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines (SVG)
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Finance and Planning (MF"); Ministry of
Communications and Works (MCW); and Ministry of Trade,
Industry and Agriculture (MTIA)
Amount:            Loan:   US$1.4 million equivalent
Credit: SDR 1.1 million (US$1.4 million equivalent)
Terms:             Loan:   17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Credit: Standard, with 35 years maturity
Proiect
Description:       The key objectives of the project are to promote growth
and diversification of agricultural production and to
improve income distribution of smallholder farmers
through more efficient use of scarce land resources. The
project would comprise a program of divestiture of state-
owned land to small-scale farmers, along with a program
of farm access-road improvement, technical assistance and
training to support the program and strengthen the
supporting services of the Ministry of Trade, Industry
and Agriculture (MTIA). The project would be implemented
by the line agencies of the Government under the
direction of a management unit attached to the Ministry
of Finance and Planning (MFP), which has main
responsibility for the divestiture program.
Benefits and
Risks:      The quantifiable benefits of the project would be
increased production of diverse agricultural products.
The economic rate of return, based on the quantifiabie
benefits, is estimated at 23Z. About 745 smallholder
families are expected to benefit from the land
divestiture program. The main risk of the project is the
extent to which the country would be able to market the
crops to be produced under the project. This would
depend on (a) whether or not the country would continue
to receive peferential treatment for the export of
bananas to the UK and (b) whether the country would be
able to seek new outlets or expand the export of non-
banana crops. SVG is a high cost producer of bananas,
and the liberalization of trade in the European Community
after 1992 could make it difficult for SVG producers to



- 2 -
compete with other exporters. To help improve the
competitiveness of SVG, the project would reduce
production costs through yield increases. Secondly, the
project would promote the production of other specialized
crops with small market niches in the US, UK and Canada,
where SVG has the opportunity of capturing a market
share, and where there is less likely to be stiff
competition from the larger agricultural exporting
countries of Latin America. SVG, largely through private
sector initiatives, has already made considerable
progress in diversifying its agricultural exports from
bananas (which were the dominant export a few years ago)
to root crops (which are now the major exports). In
addition, a program to support crop diversification has
been launched by the Governments of the OECS, of which
SVG is a member, which would, inter alia, encourage the
production of non-traditional exports, seek and promote
new export outlets, improve the quality and value-added
of the traditional exports, and promote joint marketing.
The Bank and CDB have been a-tive in providing technical
support to this endeavor. Such efforts by the
subregional Governments, complemented by the already
established tradition of private entrepreneurship in
export marketing, are expected to minimize the project
risk.
Proiect Cost:
Local      Foreign       Total
--------(US$ million)--------
Road Improvement                          0.7         1.1        1.8
Land Divestiture                          0.3         0.4        0.7
Extension & Land Administration           0.0         0.3        0.3
Project Management                        0.5         0.2        0.7
Base                       1.5         2.0        3.5
Physical Contingencies                    -           0.1        0.1
Price Contingencies                       C.2         0.2        0.4
Subtotal                   0.2         0.3        0.5
Total                      1.7         2.3        4.0
Financing Plan:
Government                                1.20        -          1.20
Bank                                      0.25        1.15       1.40
IDA                                       0.25        1.15       1.40
Total                      1.70        2.30       4.00



- 3 -
Estimated Disbursements:  ----------        -- Bank Fiscal Year----------------
1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
-----------------(US$ million)------------------
Annual                      0.2   0.4   0.8   0.4   0.4   0.3   0.2   C.1
Cumulative                  0.2   0.6   1.4   1.8   2.2   2.5   2.7   2.8
Economic Rate of Return: 23%
Map: IBRD No. 20597



- 4 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Role in the National Economy
2.01     The agricultural sector is the single most important component of
the economy of St. Vincent and the Grenadines (SVG). It accounts for about
20% of GDP (mainly bananas and root crops (18%) and livestock and fisheries
(2P)) and 70% of exports (bananas (40Z) and root crops (60Z)). The sector
employs about 30% of the labor force. Food imports of around US$20 million
per year account for 25% of total imports. Most of the imports are sugar
and rice (which are not produced in the country) and meat (which has
limited potential for domestic production in large quantities); the other
imports are vegetables, legumes and fruit prcducts. There are about 10,000
farmers (including those who practice garden-type agriculture).
Unemployment is believed to affect about 25-35% of the labor force.
2.02     The agricultural activities of the island were developed under a
colonial estate system of production of bananas, sugar, cotton, and
arrowroot for export. Following independence in 1982, labor problems
coupled with adverse market conditions led to the collapse of the estates,
and the Government was subsequently obliged to purchase the estates.
Several of these estates have been run as Government estates growing mainly
bananas, while others have been occupied by small-scale farmers who
practice mixed farming systems dominated by bananas. In either case,
productivity has been low by comparison with production on similar-sized,
privately-owned holdings.
2.03     In recent years, banana production has played a leading role as  a
major export crop, mainly because of the existence of a guaranteed market
in the UK under the EEC Lome Agreement. The value of banana exports to UK
has increased, partly from expanding acreage and improving yields, and
partly from strengthening of sterling relative to the dollar. As a result
of high financial losses, the sugar factory was closed in 1985. Cotton
production has virtually ceased because of market conditions. The
arrowroot industry has lost its competitiveness, although exports for
selected market niches is gradually picking up; present production is low,
and has declined from 900 tons of starch in 1982 to about 160 tons in 1987.
On the other hand, root crops are the main domestic staple, and are
emerging as major export and source of foreign exchange from exports to
Trinidad and Tobago. There is little livestock production, and the
potential for expansion is limited by the small amount of land available
and competition from cheaper imports. Milk, poultry and the beef
requirements are largely imported.
Sector's Performance, Potential and Constraints
2.04     During 1980-85, agricultural GDP almost doubled, fueled by rapid
growth in export of bananas (which increased from about US$10 million in
1981 to US$17 million in 1985) and of root crops (which increased from
about US$3 million to US$24 million during the same period).   In 1986,
tropical storms caused severe damage to crops which resulted in a 3%
negative growth of agricultural production; performance in 1987 was not
better due to drought during the first half of that year.



- 5 -
2.05     The scope for further agricultural development of SVG lies in
improved utilization and management of the limited land resources
(primarily land which is now under Government control), and in modifying
the cropping pattern in favor of crops which offer the best returns. The
total agricultural land ic only about 35,000 acres (including about 11,000
acres which are under forests). About 22,000 acres are already being used
for growing a wide variety of annual and perennial crops. There is, thus,
only marginal potential for increasing production through area expansion.
2.06     The key constraints to achieving the agricultural potential are
insecurity of tenure (the Government is the single largest land owner);
poor access to farmland (which is a hindri ce to the marketing of inputs
and outputs); weak institutional support kaue to shortage of trained and
experienced professional staff, emigration being one of the root causes);
and the generally high cost of production compared to competing exporting
countries (the small size of the country deprives the country of the gains
from economies of scale of production and marketing).
Market Prospects for Maior Commodities
2.07     The domestic market for agricultural products is quite small, and
cannot be expected to be the leading source of future growth in production.
Exports, therefore, should be the leading source of agricultural growth, in
spite of the uncertain market prospects. The Government of SVG has a
strong record of being able to respond to market shifts. In 1985, the last
sugar factory was closed in the face of falling sugar prices. Likewise,
the arrowroot industry has been phased down. Bananas subsequently became a
leading crop, but with the uncertainty about the future for bananas, the
country has already experienced a rise in root crop production. The
Government is further fostering the diversification of its agricultural
base through active involvement in an OECS regional approach to production
and marketing development. Details of individual crop market prospects and
Government initiatives are given below.
(a)  For bananas, SVG, ..ike the other Windward Islands, has
preferential accass to the UK market under the Lome Convention.1
In 1987, SVG exported to the UK about 40,000 tons (about 20Z of
total exports from all Windward Islands). This is up some 45Z
from 1982. With the strong supply response by the Windward
Islands, Jamaica, Furiname and Belize to current favorable UK
market prices (production in the Windward Islands alone is
expected to increase from 200,000 tons in 1987 to approximately
300,000 tons in '990), there is a growing awareness that the UK
market, which is estimated to absorb up to 330,000 tons annually,
may be approaching saturation. Given this situation, there is
likely to be increasing pressure on prices in the UK market and
there is considerable uncertainty as to what will happen when the
current Lome Convention expires in 1992. Goods are scheduled to
freely circulate within the European Community after 1992. This
would allow lower-priced Central and South American bananas to
enter the UK. Because of the above market factors, the production
1/ Exemption from payment of the 20Z EEC common external tariff and, most
importantly, exemption from import licensing arrangements.



- 6 -
and export of bananas are likely to decrease over the long term
(which may well be accelerated by periodic tropical storms and
droughts at a time when there is downward pressure on the market).
(b) For root crops, growth in exports of root crops, mainly to
Trinidad and Tobago, has been tremendous--from about 8,000 tons in
1982 to over five times that in 1987. Nevertheless, domestic
production in Trinidad and Tobago, the main importer, is growing,
and there is stiff competition from other regional exporters.
There are, however, possibilities for exports to US, Canada, and
UK particularly to satisfy the needs of the emigrees from the
Caribbean region.
(c) For spices, such as ginger and turmeric, there are market
opportunities. The Caribbean Agricultural Trading Company
(CATCO), a regional marketing agency, has committed to buy from
SVG about 500 tons of ginger under an open-ended contract, but
present supply is not enough to meet this demand. The British
firm of Geest is also keen to purchase top quality ginger.
(d) For cocoa, the US firm of Hershey has indicated an interest in
purchasing good quality cocoa from SVG, buc production so far has
not been satisfactory because of inadequate maintenance of the
trees which are grown on Government estates.
(e) For vegetables and legumes, the domestic market is promising,
particularly so if supported by growth of tourism. Carrots used
to be an important export to regional markets, yet now 'mported
carrots (about 800 kg per year) are preferred by consunmers for
their better quality. Attention to improving quality could reopen
the local markets. Onions and potatoes also have strong local
demand where domestic production could go some way to replacing
imports (about 1,300 tons per year). Imported legumes are about
230 tons per year, and there is a potential for domestic
production of these commodities also.
(f) For fruits, the market prospects are also promising; imports of
fruit products amount to US$0.7 million per year. Mangoes are
already exported from SVG to the UK and Canada and, if current
investigations result in declaration of the island as a fruit-fly
free zone, the US market will become accessible. This offers
potential for increasing production. There is also potential for
increasing sales of exotic fruit and fruit products in the
domestic market. With completion of construction of a fruit
processing facility now under way, the demand for raw materials
(such as passion fruit, limes, and sour soup) for processing juice
to supply the local market is expected to increase.
2.08     While the private sector would continue to play the lead role in
the production and marketing of agricultural produce, the Government of
SVG, along with other OECS countries, has recently launched a program to
support crop diversification and marketing. With the strong support from
bilateral and international donor agencies, policy initiatives and
investment opportunities designed to promote diversification are being
developed. The proposed project has been designed to support this program.



-7-
Institutional Framework
2.09     Research, Extension and Land 1  4nistration.  The Ministry of
Trade Industry and Agriculture (MTIA) has overall responsibility for
agriculture; its major functions are research, extension, and
administration of public agricultural land. Agricultural research is
carried out with support from the Regional Caribbean Agricultural Research
and Development Institute (CARDI), the headquarters of which are located in
Trinidad. CARDI's national level program in SVGC consists of workshops on
experimental results and production packages with emphasis on new varieties
for high-quality root crops and selected vegetables. Although research
work at the country level is of limited scope, this is not a major
constraint to crop production since sufficient information from regional
sources with similar conditions is available.
2.10     The extension organization is based on 3 regions comprising
14 districts. At present, there are 24 extension agents (giving
farmer:agent ratio of about 400:1). The ratio is sufficient, since it is
complemented by private sector extension services provided by the
associations of banana and cocoa growers. The Ministry's extension service
is being strengtLW'ned by a USAID-financed Caribbean Agricultural Extension
Project which includes training, technical assistance in extension
prograimning, and supply of vehicles and equipment.   Additional
strengthening is needed to improve the link between research and the
extension service, since there are not sufficient subject matter
specialists to guide the extension agents on a regular basis.   This would
be supported under the project.
2.11     Agricultural Credit.  This is provided by five commercial banks
(the largest of which, the National Commercial Bank, is state-owned), and
the Development Corporation or DEVCO (a Government-owned development
finance company); four of the commercial banks are branches of foreign
banks, and control over 70Z of the total assets of the commercial banking
system. The commercial banks' loans to the agricultural sector amount to
US$4 million equivalent, or 7X of their total loan portfolio; DEVCO's
lending portfolio of about US$1.5 million equivalent for 616 projects
includes 410 agricultural projects for US$0.4 million. About 70% of
DEVCO's agricultural financing is for banana growers, with an avetage
subloan size of US$800 equivalent. Interest on agricultural loans range
from 10.5X to 12Z per annum, and are fairly uniform among the financing
institutions. The rates are positive compared to rate of inflation of
around 3%. Maximum repayment terms range up to 10 years, including three
years of grace. Cost of funds to the commercial banks range between 4.2%
and 7.5Z. DEVCO's operations are financed almost exclusively with long-
term loans from CDB which carry an interest rate of 4% per annum.
2.12     The Government plans to strengthen DEVCO so as to make it a more
effective agricultural lending institution. But to carry out this r3le,
DEVCO needs to greatly improve its financial viability and efficiency. Its
financial performance is poor: it is beset by heavy operating losses; it
has been virtually illiquid, using overdraft from the National Commercial
Bank to cover its operating costs; its administrative expenses have
continued to increase steadily at an annual average rate of 12% compared to
an increase in income of around 2X; its loan arrears amount to 24Z of the
4



total loan portfolio; and it has a high debt/equity ratio of 7.2:1.
Furthermore DEVCO is beset by high turnover of managerial staff and
inadequate number of well qualified professional staff (it has a total
staff of 16, including fiv, professionais); these have contributed to poor
loan supervision and recovery. CDB, which has a long association with
DEVCO as its primary source of financing, is providing technical assistance
to strengthen DEVCO under a recently approved loan. In particular, the
technical assistance program involves the design and implementation of a
more efficient and effective agricultural credit delivery system. To
complement the technical assistance program, CDB plans to provide DEVCO
during FY89 with a global line of credit which would include sufficient
funds to meet the credit requirements of the proposed project
beneficiaries, estimated at about US$0.5 million. The CDB has confirmed to
the Bank its intention to do this. It has also confirmed its intention to
use its technical assistance program for developing specific action plans
to strengthen DEVCO, focusing particularly on improved loan collection
rates, management systems, and staff training. The above program of
integrated technical assistance and global credit is in line with GDB's
long-term assistance strategy for DEVCO.
Government's Agricultural Development Strategy
2.13     SVG has a relatively open agricultural economy.  Government policy
is to rely on the private sector to take the lead role in the sector's
development, and is supportive of private sector initiatives. Marketing is
largely in private hands, except for a parastatal Marketing Corporation
whose influence is insignificant because of the small volumes and limitpd
range of products it handles; its main business is importing sugar and rice
(commodities not produced locally) and operating a small supermarket (the
major share of supermarket business is, however, in private hands).
2.14     Sector policy issues raised with the Government during preparation
of the proposed project are now being satisfactorily addressed in
consultation with the Bank, as follows: (a) export duties were levied on
ginger and bananas albeit at a low rate of 3? of the f.o.b. values; the
Government eliminated the export duty on ginger, while retaining the export
duty on bananas for the time being since it is an important source of
Government revenue and because the banana industry can easily absorb the
current level of export duties given the substantial support it receives
from the Government by way of port facilities and associated
infrastructure; (b) domestic price controls existed on a few food item3;
the Government is currently reviewing its entire structure of price
controls, including those on agricultural commodities, with a view to
deregulating the prices over the next two years. Meanwhile, the Government
has decided to remove the key price control on domestically-harvested fish;
(c) the Government has a monopoly in the imports of sugar and rice; while
the Government intends to retain its monopoly in the import of sugar until
the debt to the Government of the former privately-owned sugar industry is
fully recovered from the profit on the import business, it plans to allow
the private sector to import rice, a commodity which is not produced in the
country; and (d) existence of a Government subsidy to the money-losing
arrowroot industry; the Government has begun to help the private sector in
restructuring the industry by limiting production to meet a small but
growing market niches. It also intends to help the industry in securing,



- 9 -
and in guaranteeing, commercial bank refinancing of the accumulated debt.
Afterwards, it would leave the industry to handle its cwn affairs.
2.15     The Government's agricultural development strategy, as outlined in
its 1986-88 Development Plan and reiterated in the First Annual Update for
1987-89, is to channel investment resources to promote diversification, and
to divest public land to smallholder farmers who would be allowed to
purchase their land after a lease period. This is reflected in the Public
Sector Investment Program (PSIP) which seeks to channel investment into
land divestiture, agricultural diversification, and agricultural supporting
activities; the Bank has endorsed the PSIP. Priority attention is given to
a compreher.sive program of land divestiture, which has as its principal aim
the creation of a viable small-farm sector. Two phases are envisaged: the
first phase, which has already started, involves the divestiture of a large
Goverranent estate known as Orange Hill. This is being financed by CDB, the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the European Economic
Community (EEC), and the Organization of American States (OAS). The
proposed project constitutes the second and final phase, and involves the
privatization of the remaining seven Government estates.
Rationale for Bank and IDA Involvement
2.16     The Bank's overall country assistance strategy for SVG is to
strengthen the country's creditworthiness by financing specific investment
projects which contribute to improved productivity and exports, while
minimizing the need for recourse to public sector resources. The proposed
project, which would promote the efficient production of exportable
agricultural commodities by private smallholder growers, is consistent with
this strategy.
III. THE PROJECT
BackRroulid
3.01     The proposed project, which would be the first Bank Group
agricultural operation in SVG, was prepared by FAO/CP, and was appraised in
May 1988. Negotiations were held in Washington during October/November
1988. The delegation of St. Vincent and the Grenadines wds led by The Rt.
Hon. J.F. Mitchell, Prime Minister/Minister of Finance.
Obiectives and Description
3.02     The key objectives of the project are to promote growth and
diversification of agricultural production and to improve income
distribution of smallholder farmers through more efficient use of scarce
land resources. The project would comprise a program of divestiture of
state-owned land to small-scale farmers, along with farm access-road
improvemerit, technical assistance and training to support the program and
strengthen the supporting services of the Ministry of Trade, Industry and
Agriculture (MTIA). The project would be implemented by the line agencies
of the Government under the direction of a management unit attached to the
Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP), which has the main responsibility
for the divestiture program. Details of project components are given
below.



- 10 -
3.03     Divestiture of State Land.  This would comprise the second and
final phase of the Government's program of divestiture of state land.
Under the first phase, the Government is in the process of divesting its
Orange Hill Estate (about 2,500 acres of cultivable land) to 655
snallholder farmers.  Under the proposed project, the Government would
livest to about 745 farm families its remaining seven estates (Langley
Park, Grand Sable, Colonarie, Sans Souci, Cane Grove, Wallilabou, and
Richmond) withi an estimated 2,500 acres of cultivable land. Farm sizes
would be 3-4 acres depending on land productivity, except in Cane Grove
where the farm size would be 1.5 acres of irrigatable land. The farmers
would be given a leasehold title for 20 years with a purchase option after
10 years; this is in line with the policy adopted under the first phase
land divestiture program. The lease option would give the farmers access
to credit and security of tenure, which will allow them to make long-term
investment decisions. The average size of holding (3 to 4 acres) would be
similar to that of the first phase program. This is based on the size of
holding which would attract and retain smallholder farmers, and commit them
to invest in long-term improvement of the land. It also takes into account
the Government's desire to distribute equitably the scarce land resources
among as many as possible of the rural poor. The target household income
level which is considered to be the minimum income necessary to attract and
retain the farmers is estimated at about EC$ 7,000 (US$2,600) per year (the
GNP per capita income is US$1,070).
3.04     The estates have been in the possession of the Government for
differing periods of time. The Government had run Wallilabou and Richmond
for many years, albeit ineffectively, until it had progressively provided
leasehold rights to some 119 occupants. The other estates were run by
private owners and were sold to the Government when SVG's major crops
declined, reducing financial viability of the estates. Currently, except
for Cane Grove and Richmond (with the above leaseholders), all of the
estates included in the project are largely cultivated by squatters around
the estites, who are farming mainly bananas together with plots of root
crops and vegetables. Cane Grove was the most recent purchase made by the
Government (1987), accounting for its unoccupied state.  A few farmers have
Government's permission to utilize their holdings in exchange for nominal
fees, but generally the squatters do not have Government's permission to
use the land. All estates are accessible from the main highways running
along the eastern and western coasts of the country. Topography ranges
from fairly flat (Langley Park and Cane Grove) to rolling (Grand Sable,
Sans Souci, Colonarie) and mountainous (Wallilabou and Richmond). All
estates, except Cane Grove, would be developed to produce rainfed crops for
which they are suitable. Cane Grove has the potential to grow vegetables
under low lift pump irrigation from a river which flows through the estate
(the farmers would purchase the pumps and needed accessories on their own
and/or through credit).
3.05     About one-third of the country's population is located in the
areas surrounding the estates. Unemployment is particularly high in the
area around Langley Park and Grand Sable estates due to closure of the
sugar industry in 1985 which was a major employer in those areas.
Unemployment is also widespread in the areas around Wallilabou and Richmond
estates, which are on the steeper slopes facing the west coast.



- 11 -
3.06     The process of land divestiture would involve surveying, mapping
at 1:2,500 scale, demarcatior of plots, and distribution of land to the
beneficiaries. The proposed project would finance the cost of the above,
including purchase of survey equipment and vehicles.  During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that MTIA would be responsible for the demarcation
of plots and determination of their sizes, taking into consideration the
suitability of project land for sustainable cultivation (para. 4.01(i)).
The proposed project wuuld also provide the MTIA with two consultants (land
use planning and surveying) for '.hree years each. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that MTIA would employ the consultants in land use
planning and surveying not later than June 30, 1989, under terms and
conditio,as acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 4.01(ii)).
3.07     Access Road Rehabilitation.  There are nearly 20 miles of access
roads to be rehabilitated within the estates to be divested, plus
development of access to individual plots. The rehabilitation works would
involve reduction of slopes on some stretches by minor realignment and
excavation, application and compacting of road surface material on the
roads, construction of masonry check dams at required intervals to reduce
the flow speed of ditch water and to avoid soil erosion, and installation
of concrete paved stone fords on steep slopes. The project would provide
equipment for the rehabilitation works, as well as the complementary
materials.  After the project works are completed, about 70% of the
equipment life span would still be available for maintenance and expansion
of the road system. About 48 manmonths of technical assistance, involving
the services of a consultant, would be provided to the Ministry of
Communications and Public Works (MCW) for supervising the works. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that MCW would employ the consultant
not later than June 30, 1990, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank Group (para. 4.01(iii)).
3.08     Strengthening of MTIA.  In order to improve the technical support
for crop diversification, the project would assist MTIA in zstablishing a
well qualified corps of specialized staff by providing a two-year advanced
degree training (M.Sc. levels) for three subject matter specialists in tree
crops, root crops and market research. MTIA's current organization of the
extension service would remain unchanged except for the insertion of the
above subject matter team. The 14 field staff would remain in post, but
the responsibility of 8 of these would be extended to include the estates.
The project would also help the Ministry to strengthen its land
administration capability in the areas of land use planning, surveys and
land valuation/administration by providing external training for three MTIA
staff for a total period of 120 manmonths (land use planning, 36 manmonths;
surveys, 36 manmonths; and land valuation/administration, 48 manmonths).
This training program would complement the technical assistance that would
be provided by the consultants in land use planning and surveying under the
land divestiture program, and over the long term would form a core staff of
local experts in their areas of training (there are no such experts in the
country).
3.09     Project Management.  In order to manage the coordinated
implementation of the project, the selection of farmers and the issuance of
legal rights for land use, a Project Management UPit would be established



- 12 -
within the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MFP). Staffing would include
a Director and a minimum of two support staff.  The proposed project would
finance  vehicles, office equipment and supplies, and staff.  The Director,
with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank Group, would be financed under
the proposed loan and credit, while the support staff would be provided by
the Government.  The full complement of staff, which would be hired
locally, would be maintained throughout pro,ect- implementation.  Details of
the organizational arrangements and functions of the Project Management
Unit are given in para. 3.16.
Project Cost and Financing
3.10     The total cost of the proposed project, net of taxes, is estimated
at about US$4 million, with a foreign exchange component of about
US$2.3 million or 57Z. The base cost was calculated using projected end-
1988 prices. Allowances for expected price increases on the local and
foreign exchange components have been computed using the Bank's projection
for international inflation. The allowances are 3% per annum during
1989-90, and 4% per annum thereafter. Physical contingencies have been
computed at 107 on drainage structures and road construction materials.
3.11     A Bank loan and an IDA credit of US$2.8 million is proposed (50-50
split), which wou]d finance 70% of the total project cost. The Government
would finance the remainder of the project cost, and would bear the foreign
exchange risk on the Bank loan and IDA credit. The Government would use
the proceeds of the Bank loan and IDA credit to purchase equipment for road
improvement, vehicles, office equipment and supplies, road construction
materials and extension demonstration materials; and to pay for the costs
of training and consultancy services, which would include the Project
Director.
Procurement
3.12     The equipment for road construction and vehicles (a total cost of
US$0.9 million) would be tendered following international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Office equipment and
supplies, road construction materials and extension demonstration materials
(a total cost of US$1.5 million) would be procured by local shopping with
written quotations from at least three suppliers, since they would be
individually small. For equipment and vehicles to be tendered following
ICB, the Bank would review the tender documents before the invitations to
bid are issued and before contract awards are made. Consultants would be
recruited in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency."



- 13 -
3.13     The procurement procedures and amounts for the various project
elements are shown as follows:
Procurement Procedures a,
Local
Item                          ICB        Shopping       Other         Total
- - - - - - - - (US$ million) - - - - - - -
Vehicles &
Road Equipment              0.9           _                          0.9
(0.9)                                   (0.9)
Consultants                   -             _             0.5          0.5
(0.5)       (0.5)
Training                      _             -             0.4          0.4
(0.4)       (0.4)
Office Equipment & Supplies,
Road Construction           -             1.5                        1.5
(1.0)                      (1.0)
Materials & Extension
Demonstration Materials
Local Staff and Office        -             -             0.7          0.7
Rental
Total                    0.9          1.5            1.6          4.0
(0.9)        (1.0)          (0.9)       (2.8)
a/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank
loan and IDA credit.
Disbursement
3.14     The proposed Bank loan and IDA credit would be disbursed over 7.5
years, based on the disbursement profile for agricultural projects in the
Latin America and Caribbean Region. The rate of disbursements, however, is
expected to be faster than the profile during the initial period of project
implementation, mainly due to the purchase of needed road construction
equipment. Disbursement requests for expenditures in respect of vehicles
and road construction equipment, consultant services and training would be
fully documented, except for expenditures for contracts and purchase orders
less than US$50,000 equivalent which would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditures (SOEs). Expenditures for office equipment and
supplies, road construction materials and extension demonstration materials
would also be made against SOEs. The documentation would be retained by
implementing agencies and made available to Bank staff during supervision.
Disbursements would be made for 100l of total cost for vehicles and road
construction equipment (up to US$0.3 million under the Bank loan and US$0.6
million under the IDA credit); 100Z of total cost for consultant services
(up to US$0.3 million under the loan and US$0.2 million under the credit);
10OZ of total cost for training (up to US$0.3 million under the loan and



14 -
US$0.1 million under the credit); and 100l   of foreign cost and 50X of local
cost for office equipment and supplies, road construction materials and
extension demonstration materials (up to a total amount of US$0.5 million
under the loan and another US$0.5 million under the credit.)
3.15     Establishment by the Borrower in the National Commercial Bank of a
Project Account with an initial deposit of EC$ 200,000 to cover counterpart
expenditures would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 4.02(i)). During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower would establish in
the National Commercial Bank a Special Account in US dollars, to cover
eligible expenditures under the loan and credit and maintain this Special
Account throughout the project's imnplementation period (para. 4.01(iv)).
An initial deposit of US$0.2 million would be made by the Bank Group upon
receipt and approval of a satisfactory withdrawal application. Subsequent
replenishment by the Bank Group of the Special Account would follow normal
procedures ana would be for the Bank's and IDA's share of eligible
expenditures. Assurances were obtained that the Borrower would maintain
the Project Account throughout the proposed proiect's implementation period
(para. 4.01(v)).
Project Organization
3.16     Project Management. Overall project management would be the
responsibility of a small unit attached to the Ministry of Finance and
Planning (MFP), which has the overall responsibility for land use planning
throughout the country. The Project Management Unit would be headed by a
Director and have a minimum of two support staff. Its functions would be
to: manage the selection of farmers and issuance of legal rights for land
use; coordinate timely preparation of project operational plans and ensure
that timely corrective actions are taken if there are deviations from the
plans; ensure effective collaboration and coordination among the project
implementing agencies; coordinate preparation of progress and audit reports
and of a project completion report; and identify implementation
bottlenecks, if any, and take appropriate measures to resolve them. It
would not have responsibilities for the technical aspects of the project,
and would not be maintained beyond the duration of the proposed project,
i.e., once the land has been fully divested, the Unit would be dissolved.
Establishment of the Project Management Unit by MFP and its full staffing
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan and credit
(para. 4.02(ii)). Assurances were obtained that MFP would maintain the
Project Management Unit staffed adequately at all times throughout the
project implementation phase (para. 4.01(vi)). As a condition of
negotiation of the proposed loan and credit, the Borrower has designated a
Director for the Project Management Unit, with qualifications satisfactory
to the Bank Group (para. 4.03).
3.17     Technical Implementation.  Responsibility for implementing the
technical aspects of the project would be the responsibility of the line
agencies of the Government. Thus: (a) MTIA, through its Lands and Surveys
Department, would conduct land surveys, prepare maps and land use plans,
and demarcate the plots. The consultants in land use planning and
surveying would provide the needed technical assistance. MTIA would also
manage the training program for its staff; and (b) the Ministry of



- 15 -
Communications and Works (MCW) would implement the road component, and a
consultant in road improvement would be assigned to MCW. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that MCW would provide road
construction and maintenance services for the development and maintenance
of roads in the project area (para. 4.01(vii)).
3.18     Beneficiary Selection.  In selecting the beneficiaries, the
Project Management Unit would be advised by a Land Settlement Committee,
which would be appointed by the Government. Members of the Committee would
include the Director of Planning in the Office of the Prime Minister; the
Agricultural Permanent Secretary, Chief Agricultural Officer, and Chief
Surveyor in the Lands and Surveys Department of MTIA; and three people from
the private sector, including a representative from the farming community,
one of whom would be appointed chairman. This is similar to the membership
of the Land Settlement Committee for the first phase program. The
Committee would ensure that the established selection criteria would be
applied equitably and fairly in selecting the beneficiaries. Establishment
of the Land Settlement Committee, and appointment of the members would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan and credit
(para. 4.02(iii)).
3.19     The criteria for selection of the farmers would be similar to
those already established under the Orange Hill land divestiture program,
i.e., landless agricultural laborers with farming skills; families with
identifiable heads of househoLds who have demonstrable skills in
agriculture; and ful.-time farmers whose present holdings are too small to
yield an income of at least EC$ 7,000 (US$2,600) per annum would be
eligible. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Land
Settlement Committee would establish selection criteria and implementation
procedures, both satisfactory to the Bank Group, for the land divestiture
program, by June 30, 1989 (para. 4.01(viii)). The beneficiaries are
expected to be drawn from among the present squatters on the estates (they
have no legal right to the land they now occupy), employees of the estates,
and residents of the communities adjacent to the estates. The Government
has the capacity and the legal framework to issue land titles, which is
currently operative under Phase 1 of the settlement program in Orange Hill.
3.20     Extension Services.  MTIA would provide extension services to the
beneficiaries. Under a USAID-financed Caribbean Agricultural Extension
Project (CAEP), MTIA has been receiving assistance in upgrading its
extension services via the development of technological packages, provision
of equipment and training for extension officers and program planning. The
extension service would have the capacity to adequately service the
project. The subject matter specialists introduced through the project
would further strengthen MTIA's extension services. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that MTIA would make available at least eight
field extension staff to service the needs of the smallholders under the
project (para. 4.01(ix)). Marketing would continue to be done by private
traders and commodity associations, as they have successfully demonstrated
in the past.
3.21     Agricultural Credit.  This would continue to be provided by the
commercial banks (particularly for banana growers), and by DEVCO (funded



- 16 -
mainly by CDB, particularly for the small farmer loans). Over the medium
term, no large increase is foreseen in the demand for credit because: the
farmers usually prefer to use their own resources first and borrow only as
a last resort; some of the farmers' household members are expected to be
inter-island exporters and would have cash to spare and/or have traditional
contacts with exporters who advance cash to the producers, thus reducing
the need to borrow from formal credit institutions; and the project
beneficiaries would be expected to emphasize initially their firm hold on
their new land rather than increasing their indebtedness. Thus, the
incremental demand for agricultural credit during the project's
implementation period is expected to , low. Adequate credit would be
available through the CDB's global line of credit for DEVCO, programmed for
FY89. The continuing technical assistance that would be provided by CDB to
DEVCO is expected to upgrade its capacity to handle the anticipated
increase in its operations.
3.22     Project Phasing.  The first year of the project (1989) would be
used for setting up the organization for the project's implementation
(hiring consultants, purchasing equipment and vehicles, and initiating the
recruitment of local staff). During the second year, recruitment of
project staff and tendering of road construction equipment would be
completed, and the survey/demarcation of plots would be initiated.
External training of staff of MTIA would commence. The road improvement
works and divestiture of the estates would commence during the third year,
and the entire project is projected to be completed in 1995. The timetable
for implementing the different project component is shown in Annex 1,
Chart 1.
Environmental Impact
3.23     The project would lead to more environmentally sound land use
planning and to improved agricultural techniques. The consultant to be
provided to MTIA for this purpose would ensure that areas which ought not
be cultivated, such as steep-sloping areas which should be left under
permanent vegetative cover, would not be distributed to the farmers. MTIA
would also work with the farmers to promote proper land use after the
divestiture program has been completed. Fruit tree plantings would be
seeded with grass to reduce erosion, and the technique used for banana
production does not require removal of low ground cover nor the burning of
scrub. Areas to be preserved as reserves or run-off areas would be marked,
allowing for an increase in the flow area of the run-off water to reduce
the effect of erosion.
Progress Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
3.24     Each implementing agency (paras. 3.16 and 3.17) would prepare
annual progress reports on their respective components of the project. The
Project Management Unit would coordinate preparation of the reports, and
consolidate the same for submission to the Bank Group. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that MFP would submit to the Bank
Group necessary data and information on the project through annual progress
reports, beginning May 31, 1990, and exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the project, and the work program for the



- 17 -
following year not later than June 30 of each year (para. 4.01(x)). The
Project Management Unit would monitor project implementation and evaluate
the results.
Accounts and Audits
3.25     Separate project accounts would be maintained by the MTIA, MCW and
the Project Management Unit. The project accounts, as well as the Project
and Special Accounts in the NaLional Commercial Bank, and related financial
information, including those supporting the statements of expenditures
(SOEs) to claim reimbursements from the Bank Group, would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group. The Project Management
Unit would coordinate such audits as well as the submission of audited
financial statements. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
MFP would submit certified copies of the audited project accounts, as well
as the audited Project and Special Accounts in the National Commercial
Bank, including a separate opinion on the use of SOEs, annually to the Bank
Group not later than six months after the close of the Government's fiscal
year, starting with the audit report for the fiscal year ending June 30,
1989 (para. 4.01(xi)).
Benefits
3.26     Production.  The seven estates to be divested have a total
cultivable area of about 2,500 acres, of which 2,100 acres are presently
cultivated by squatters, the remaining 400 acres are unutilized. Yields of
crops are considerably lower than those of similar-sized farms in
surrounding areas where farms have clear titles. Most highland areas are
usually grown to tree crops. Smallholders in the lowlands have been
progressively planting their holdings in bananas, which account for about
60? of the total cultivable area. Only small areas remain in annual crops.
The small areas still devoted to annual crops are used for producing root
crops and vegetables. Most of the families have surplus labor.
3.27     With the project, bananas are expected to continue to be the
dominant crop. The 400 acres of uncultivated land are likely to be used
for increasing the area under root crops, spices (ginger, turmeric),
vegetables (carrots, peppers, onions, tomatoes), and tropical fruits. The
farmers would have more freedom of action to grow any crop to the dictates
of the market since they would have security of tenure which would permit
them to make rational economic decision in response to market signals.
They are also expected to take more risks in making long-term investments
in perennial crop development, and short-term investments in use of
improved farm technology to increase crop yield. Yield of bananas is
projected to increase by about 20? over a three-year period from a fairly
low level of 4-5 tons/acre. Yields for most other crops, which are also
low, are projected to increase by about 50%, comparable with the yields on
privately-owned farms in the surrounding areas.
3.28     Impact on the Beneficiaries' Income.  Five farm models have been
prepared to illustrate the likely impact of the project on incomes of the
beneficiaries: (a) the first model represents the Cane Grove estate where
it is expected vegetables would be grown under low lift pump irrigation
from a river which flows through the estate (the farmers would purchase the
pumps and needed accessories on their own and/or through credit). A



- 18 -
holding size of 1.5 acres would give the farm family an income of around
EC$ 11,970 (US$4,430) per year after payment of expenses, including land
rent. This level of income is nearly 702 higher than the minimum household
income target of EC$ 7,000 established under the Government's land
divestiture program; (b) the second model represents Sans Souci, Colonarie,
and Grand Sable estates, which have similar agriculture and development
potential. A holding size of four acres would give the farm family an
annual income of about EC$ 8,500 (US$3,150); (c) the third model represents
Langley Park, where three acres would be sufficient to give the household
an estimated annual income of EC$ 9,630 (US$3,570); (d) the fourth model
represents Wallilatou, and three acres would give household income of
EC$ 9,160 (US$3,39C); and (e) the fifth model, representing Richmond, shows
that four acres would be needed to yield an annual income of about
EC$ 8,400 (US$3,110).
3.29     Cost Recovery.  Under its first phase land divestiture program,
the Government has established an annual land lease rate of EC$ 1,500
(US$555) per farm (which, in the case of the Phase I: Orange Hill project,
recovers only 15% of the investment and administrative expenses). The same
land lease rate under the project would recover 60Z of the project costs,
because of the lower land divestiture costs. In line with the expected
gradual development of farm income, the lease would start low during the
initial years following the allocation of farm plots to each beneficiary,
and would be increased gradually until the peak payment is attained during
the sixth year (for the Orange Hill, the peak would be reached during the
12th year). There would be no payment during the first year. During the
second year, the rent would be about 30X of the peak rental and the rate
would be increased to about 60%, 752, 85Z and 100X respectively during the
3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th years respectively. The present value of the
collections if the farmers do not exercise their option to buy, discounted
at 12% over the lease period, would be about EC$ 4.4 million
(US$1.6 million). That would recover 60X of the discounted present value
of the investment and administrative expenses chargeable to the land
divestiture program. If the lessee meets the criteria laid down in the
lease agreement and then exercises the option to buy after 10 years, it is
the policy of the Government to apply rental payments to the purchase
price of land. The price of the land would be established on the basis of
existing market values of land, with allowances for any improvements.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that MFP would set land
rental rates for project heneficiaries at levels sufficient to recover at
least 60% of the project's investment and administrative expenses over 20
years. Rental rates shall be established with the agreement of the Bank
Group, and would be subject to annual review thereafter in consultation
with the Bank Group (para. 4.01(xii)).
3.30     Economic Rate of Return.  Based on the quantifiable benefits of
the project, the economic rate of return on the investment is computed at
232. This is based on the assumption that the bananas would continue to be
exported in the preferential market. Even if the preferential UK market
for bananas is not extended, resulting in prices falling to the free market
levels, the ERR would still be satisfactory at 19Z. About 745 smallholder
families are expected to benefit from the land divestiture program.



- 19 -
Risk
3.31     The main risk of the project Is the extent to which the country
would be able to market the crops to be produced under the project. This
would depend on (a) whether or not the country would continue to receive
peferential treatment for the export of bananas to the UK and (b) whether
the country would be able to seek new outlets or expand the export of non-
banana crops. SVG is a high cost producer of bananas, and the
liberalization of trade in the European Community after 1992 could make it
difficult for SVG producers to compete with other exporters. To help
improve the competitiveness of SVG, the project would reduce production
costs through yield increases. Secondly, the project would promote the
production of other specialized crops with small market niches in the US,
UK and Canada, where SVG has the opportunity of capturing a market share,
and where there is less likely to be stiff competition from the larger
agricultural exporting countries of Latin America. SVG, largely through
private sector initiatives, has already made considerable progress in
diversifying its agricultural exports from bananas (which were the dominant
export a few years ago) to root crops (which are now the major exports).
In addition, a program to support crop diversification has been launched by
the Governments of the OECS, of which SVG is a member, which would, inter
alia, encourage the production of non-traditional exports, seek and promote
new export outlets, improve the quality and value-added of the traditional
exports, and promote joint marketing.   The Bank and CDB have been active
in providing technical support to this endeavor. Such efforts by the
subregional Governments, complemented by the already established tradition
of private entrepreneurship in export marketing, are expected to minimize
the project risk.
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower
that:
(i)  MTIA would carry out the demarcation of plots and determination of
their sizes, taking into consideration the suitability of project
land for sustainable cultivation (para. 3.06);
(ii) MTIA would employ consultants in land use planning and land
surveying not later than June 30, 1989 under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 3.06);
(iii) MCW would employ a consultant for supervising the road
rehabilitation program not later than June 30, 1990 under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 3.07);
(iv) It would establish in the National Commercial Bank a Special
Account in U.S. dollars to cover eligible expenditures under the
proposed loan and credit, and maintain the Special Account
throughout the project's implemenfation period (para. 3.15);
(v) It would maintain the Project Account referred to in para. 3.15
throughout the project's implementation period;



- 20 -
(vi)  MFP would maintain the Project Management Unit staffed adequately
at all times throughout the project implementation phase
(para. 3.16)
(vii)  MCW would provide road construction and maintenance services for
the development and maintenance of roads in the project area
(para. 3.17);
(viii)  The Land Settlement Committee would establish selection criteria
and implementation procedures, both satisfactory to the Bank
Group, for the land divestiture program, by June 30, 1989 (para.
3.19);
(ix)  MTIA would make available at least eight agricultural extension
staff to service the needs of the smallholders under the project
(para. 3.20);
(x) MFP would submit to the Bank Group necessary data and information
on all project components through annual progress reports,
beginning May 31, 1990, and exchange views on thie progress
achieved in carrying out the project, and the work program for the
following year not later than June 30 of each year (para. 3.24);
(xi)  MFP would submit to the Bank Group annually certified copies of
the audited project accounts, as well as the audited Project
Account and Special Account in the National Commercial Bank,
including a separate opinion on the use of SOEs, within six months
of the close of each fiscal year, starting with the audit report
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1989 (para. 3.25); and
(xii)  MFP would set land rental rates for project beneficiaries at
levels sufficient to recover at least 60Z of the project's
investment and administrative expenses over 20 years. Such rental
rates shall be established with the agreement of the Bank Group
and would be subject to annual review thereafter in consultation
with the Bank Group (para. 3.29).
4.02     Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan and IDA
credit would be:
(i)  establishment by the Borrower in the National Con'ercial Bank of a
Project Account with an initial deposit of EC$200,000 to cover
counterpart expenditures (para. 3.15);
(ii)  establishment by MFP of the Project Management Unit and its full
staffing (para. 3.16); and
(iii)  establishment by the Government of the Land Settlement Committee
and appointment of its members (para. 3.18).



- 21 -
4.03     As a condition of negotiation of the proposed loan and credit, the
Borrower has designated a Director for the Project Management Unit,
satisfactory to the Bank Group (para. 3.16).
4.04     With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$1.4 million for 17 years, including
five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate; and an IDA
credit of SDR 1.1 million (US$1.4 million equivalent) on the standard IDA
terms, with 35 years maturity.



-22-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 7
ST VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Detailed Features of the Project
A. T.Le Road Component
Introduction
1.       This section deals with the proposed road component of the
project. It contains two parts: the first part gives a brief summary of
the national road system, focusing on the planning and administration of
road construction and maintenance, to provide the setting for the proposed
project roads; and the second part deals with the details of the proposed
project roads.
The Road Subsector
2.       Background.  Mainland SVG has a total of 680 miles of motorable
roads, of which 360 miles are bitumine surfaced and the remaining 320 miles
are secondary and tertiary gravel and earth surfaced. This gives a road
density of five miles per square mile. However, most of the roads have
been in service over ten years. The paved roads, except those recently
rehabilitated or improved, have deteriorated considerably due to lack of
periodic and routine maintenance. The rugged terrain, the prevalence of
retaining walls, sea walls, paved ditches and roadside head walls, and high
intensity and long-lasting rainfall contribute to high road maintenance
costs.
3.       Administration and Planning.  The administration of the road
network is the responsibility of the Public Works Department (PWD) of the
Ministry of Communications and Works (MCW). The PWD is managed by a Chief
Engineer, assisted by an assistant chief engineer and is responsible for
construction and maintenance of roads and buildings. It is subdivided into
Capital Works Project and Maintenance Divisions. The Capital Works Project
Division provides technical supervision and advises in planning,
construction, engineering design, and cost analysis control. The
Construction Division, headed by a civil engineer, has one engineering
assistant and two senior supervisors assigned to roads. The Roads
Maintenance Division, headed by a senior engineering assistant, has
established staff of about 30 and is organized in eleven maintenance
districts, responsible for different geographic areas. The organizational
structure of PWD is sound for the size of the road network system.
4.       Road Construction and Maintenance Capacity.  Construction of
roads, rehabilitation and resealing of paved road, including bilateral
financed projects, are carried out mostly by force account. There are no
local contractors to carry out such works. In few instances, works are
contracted to international contractors from the Caribbean subregion.
Costs of contract works are high mainly due to the small size of the works,
non-continuity of similar jobs in SVG, and limited competition.



-23-
Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
5.       There are several local contractors which are generally classified
as medium and petit contractors. The few medium-size contractors do mainly
drainage structure and hauling of road materials of up to US$20,000, but
have no capacity to do earth work and processing and placing of base and
surface materials. The petit contractors carry out mostly small quantity
masonry and concrete works contracts of about US$2,000. In most instances,
works contracts are negotiated with contractors who reside in the locality
where the works are located. This approach, although it allows for job
distribution by locality, has the disadvantage of discouraging the
development of larger size competitive contracts. The approach has created
a workload burden on PWD since they have to engage and supervise many small
contractors.
6.       The PWD does most of the drainage structure and material hauling
for road maintenance by engaging both types of the above-mentioned local
contractors, and the rest of the force account maintenance work by renting
equipment from a public owned "General Equipment and Services Corporation
(GESCO)". GESCO is a recently established equipment renting/leasing public
enterprise. It has a limited number of good condition construction
equipment and would not be able to provide a balanced equipment force for
this project. Moreover, its equipment rental rates are high. GESCO's
initial assets are equipment originally owned by different ministries. The
operators, technicians and administrative personnel are Civil Service
employees transferred to GESCO from the different ministries with the
equipment. Even though GESCO is established to be financially accountable
and to operate on income generated from equipment rental/lease and repair
services, substantial amount of its annual expenses is being backed-up by
budgetary allocation. If GESCO is to be able to finance its operation from
self-generated income, it needs to develop sound administrative,
operational and technical management systems.
7.       PWD's road maintenance effort is mostly concentrated on ditch
cleaning and repair of paved ditches, retaining walls and road side head
walls. Patching and pavement crack sealing, resealing and regravelling
operations are given less attention. In absence of a well-developed road
maintenance management system, annual road maintenance work load
programming and implementation are not adequately assessed and analyzed.
As a result, annual workload and budget are being developed from historical
data rather than detailed assessment of the requirements.
8.       Funding.  Annual approved budgets for road maintenance, averaged
over a five-year period, amount to EC$ 4.4 million (US$1.6 million). PWD
claims that the annual road maintenance budget allocation is only 50Z of
the requirement; but this claim cannot be substantiated due to the absence
of sound planning and programming.  Therefore, it would be diffic:lt to
justify increases in budgetary allocation until PWD establishes sound road
maintenance management system that would ensure cost effective utilization
of resources.
9.       Virtually all of the capital works are financed from external
sources. Of the recent projects, a Phase 1 Productive Infrastructure



-24-
Annex 1
Page 3 of 7
Rehabilitation project, financed by USAID, rehabilitated 14 miles of
primary and secondary roads serving the banana production area around
Mesopotamia. That project also provided equipment such as asphalt
distributor, vibratory roller and two front-end loaders. Implemented on
force account by MCW, the project met its construction objectives, despite
some initial delays and substantial cost overruns, due to poor
institutional performances, as well as delays in equipment availability and
supply of construction materials.  A follow-up project has recently been
approved by USAID as component of   regional Tnfrastructure Expansion and
Maintenance Systems Project.  Thib follow-up project includes
rehabilitattion by force account of about 15 miles of rural feeder roads,
provision of road construction and maintenance equipment, technical
assistance and drafting of a road maintenance program.
10.      The Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) has financed three feeder
road projects. The First Feeder Roads Project financed construction of 7
miles of roads, and the Second Feeder Roads Project financed the
construction of 24 miles of roads. The Third Feeder Roads Project,
financed by a 1986 loan, would support construction of seven agricultural
feeder roads of a total length of 9.6 miles. Implementation of this
project has just been initiated.
The Project Roads
11.      General.  The seven estates to be divested are located adjacent to
the main highway which runs along the sea shores; all the farms are
accessible from this main highway. The island's eastern side highway,
going from Kingstown to Langley Park, is in fair condition but is overdue
for periodic maintenance (resealing) for the most part of the 22 miles
length of the road. The western side highway, from Kingstown to Richmond
(also 22 miles), is seriously deteriorated requiring pavement, paved
ditches, retaining walls and headwalls rehabilitation; a project is under
preparation for possible financing by CDB.
12.      Farm Roads.  The estates are presently served by about 19 miles of
in-farm earth surface roads. In the flat and rolling terrains, the roads
are formed by clearing and grubbing the natural ground by grader or dozer
bladas. In the hilly sections, the road are constructed to formation level
by cutting into the hillsides. These roads have not been surfaced except
for a thin layer of select material, and spot surfacing on short steep
grade sections. The carriageways are encroached by grass growth except at
the wheel tracks. The side ditches are filled with soil sediments and
debris of banana leaves and stems. The roads have not been maintained for
a long time, and there is no sufficient provision for regular maintenance
except unscheduled clearing by grader blade to keep the roads open to
traffic. Banana plants are grown up to the edge of the carriageways,
leaving no right-of-way (ROW). However, all the roads are passable by
2-wheel drive vehicles used to take out the farm product (mostly banana
crops). Only few short stretches of the roads show signs of wash-outs from
rain, and track deformations due to traffic load are negligible. The
dominant light volcanic soil of the island, even though susceptible for
erosion, h&s a good self-draining characteristic with limited signs of
muddy spot even under the heavy rainfall lasting about six months in a
calendar year.



-25-
Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
13.      The 19 miles of roads give an average of 5 miles of roads per
square mile of farm area, which is sufficient density for purposes of
agricultural development; rehabilitation of the roads would be sufficient
for purposes of the project. With the expected Average Daily Traffic (ADT)
of about 10, comprising half and one ton pick-ups, a higher density than
the proposed 20 miles of farm roads is not necessary for agricultural
purposes. The roads are fairly well distributed over the farms' area: the
average length of each stretch of road is about 1.5 miles, the longest
distance between any two parallel roads is about 400 meters; and the
distance between a farm plot and the nearest road is about 200 meters.
Individual farmers, however, would be provided free access to their land
without encroaching on properties of other farmers. In the project design,
allowance has been made for a two-year operational cost for clearing and
grubbing of 12 feet wide right-of-way access roads to individual farm
plots.
14.      Design Standards.  The design standard for the proposed road works
would be as follow:
Road Features                             Standards
Right-of-way width                        19'
Road formation width                      15'
Carriageway width                         12'
Shoulder width                             3'(two sides)
Subbase (pit-run select or
river gravel)                            4" to 6"
Side ditches up to lOZ grade              grassing
Side ditch above 102 grade                grassing and check dams
cross-drainage                         mass concrete paved
stone hard core fords
15.      Method of Construction.  The road improvement works would be
carried out by the PWD of the Ministry of Communication and Works. The
scattered location of work sites and the small quantity of the works
involved would make them unattractive for international contractors. Also,
the local contractor would not be able to do the earth work and surfacing
operations. The works would require mainly skilled equipment operators
under an overall supervision of an experienced civil engineer. There is no
shortage of such operators in St. Vincent. The roads alignment can be
flagged out using survey range poles, and the formation level construction
can be staked out using the typical cross-sections. The PWD has been
carrying out several more complex bilateral-financed road projects
satisfactorily using departmental force. PWD can contract out almost all
of the ditch check dams and cross-drain fords to the medium and petit local
contractors. GESCO has the capacity and would provide maintenance and
repair services for the project equipment. The project would provide funds
for purchase of the equipment, and the related operational cost. After the
project works are completed, about 70? of the equipment life span would
still be available for futur' periodic replacement of subbase material,
reshaping of road surface, and the ditch cleaning. The above method of
construction would also allow the needed flexibility to design and plan the
works as the project progresses.



-26-
Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
B. The Land Divestiture Program
Organization
16.      The Ministry of Agriculture and the Project Coordination Unit
would collaborate in implementing the aspect of this project. The Ministry
would have two expatriate consultants (land use planner and surveyor) with
the following qualifications and main responsibilities:
(a)  Land Use Planner.  The land use planner would be a graduate in
agronomy with a strong background in agricultural economics, or
alternatively an agricultural economist with a background of
agronomy. At least five years field experience of humid tropical
agriculture would be required, including no less than three years
of land use planning. Ideally, field experience should include
knowledge of the crops and marketing problems related to the
agriculture of the Eastern Caribbean region. The appointment
would be for a term of three years, and the appointee would be
responsible to the Chief, Lands and Survey Department of MTIA.
He/she would be responsible for: (i) scanning aerial photographs
of the seven estates, and plotting on maps the present land use,
location and outline of existing settlements, access roads and
tracks, catchment areas and run-off areas; (ii) plotting of
orthographic units, based largely on slope categories but with
verification of land capability based on soil classification;
(iii) superimposing on plans of orthographic units, the areas of
land suitable for annual crops, tree crops, pastures, and areas
which should be reserved for catchment or run-off; (iv) defining
for each orthographic unit the area of land of various categories
needed to provide the target income levels, based on budget for
crops; (v) producing outlines of plans for discussions on site
with existing occupants and prospective lessees with proposals for
the land use for each plot; (vi) briefing the surveyors on the
plots to be surveyed and the criteria to be followed in the
precise pegging of boundary lines; (vii) once plots have been
surveyed and demarcated, the appointee would hand over all
proposals for land use and special protection or land management
measures to be followed by lessees. Before the conclusion of his
appointment, the appointee would produce a manual for land use
planning in SVG, setting out the criteria to be used, and
parameters of land use capability in quantitative and financial
terms; and
(b)  Survey Specialist.  The candidate would a have university degree
in land survey or equivalent with a minimum of five years of
practical experience in land settlement activities in developing
countries. Knowledge and the experience in the Caribbean region
would be desirable. His/her main duties would be: working with
the land uca planner in reviewing the existing situation with
regard to land occupancy in different project sites and



-27-
Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
determining the legal status and size of holding; preparing survey
and mapping of project sites; assisting in preparing detailed farm
layout design and maps for each site; assisting in drawing land
tenure and related documents for beneficiaries in accordance with
established policy of the Government; and assisting in the
selection and farm allocation to beneficiaries.
Selection of Settlers
17.      Same procedures as in the first phase land divestiture program
would apply. A Land Settlement Committee would oversee the selection of
eligible beneficiaries. The steps involved in the practical implementation
of the subdivision of any area of land into small farms are summarized
below.
18.      Once the overall boundaries of the land concerned have been
clearly indicated on the ground, determining the layout of the blocks of
lots is done very largely during inspection on the ground. It is not
practical, and can lead to much wasted effort and expense, if the layout is
done "in the office," and then the resulting plan given to the land
surveyors with instructions to 'set it out on the ground." Particularly
with terrain as rugged as that of much of SVG, this is not a practical way
to proceed.
19.      Plot laying would be done in two stages.  The first stage is to
determine where the roads, and therefore the blocks, will be, and a plan is
then produced showing this expected layout. This cannot be considered the
final layout until the road builders have virtually completed their work.
As soon as it is known that the block layout will not have to be changed,
it will be possible to inspect each in detail and, having regard to the
required average area of each farm, set out the farm lots in each block.
This is essentially a joint operation with the agriculturalists, land
surveyors and land administrators. After each block is determined, the
land surveyors will start plotting the lots thus marked out onto the estate
plans, ascribing numbers to the blocks and to the lots within them. It
will then be known exactly how many lots--or farms--are available.
20.      When all the applications for a plot are received, they will be
passed on to the Land Settlement Committee which will complete the
allocation of the lots amongst the applicants. The Head of the Project
Management Unit will then send formal letters offering the allocated farm
lot to the selected farmers. These offer letters will contain plans
indicating the block and lot allocated to individuals, broad details
(approximate area, rent per acre and also the principal provisions of the
kinds of titles to be granted). Each offeree will be given a time within
which he/she has to accept the offer (on a form provided), and advised what
fees, first payment of rent, etc., he/she is to submit at the same time
with his/her acceptance. The offer letter will make it clear that until
the offeree has accepted the offer and been given his/her agreement to
lease, he/she has no right in law to occupy the land; farmers who may
already have leases will continue to operate their land in accordance with
their lease terms. A sample lease is attached.



-28-
Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
21.      As soon as each acceptance has been received, each farmer would be
issued an agreement to lease containing a copy of the same simple plan
which he/she receivers with his/her offer letter, and physically shown his
farm, with the boundary pegs clearly indicated to him/her and to his/her
neighbors. When the farms in each block are occupied, the Land Surveyors
can move in, replace the wooden pegs with concrete boundary markers and
produce the required survey diagrams for attaching to each lease. In due
course, the lease documents (or conveyances) will then be prepared,
registered and copies handed to the new farmers--at which point they hand
back their Agreement. The Agreement stage is intended to avoid delays in
getting farmers onto land by including a requirement that all deeds be
accompar.ied by an approved survey diagram before they can be registered in
the Lands Registry.



-29-
Annex 1
Attachment
Page 1 of 5
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADIHIES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Sample Lease Agreement
THIS LEASE is made the      day of         in the Year of Our Lord
between the Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines (hereinafter
called "the LESSOR") and
of                                in the State of Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines (hereinafter referred to as "the LESSEE" which expression shall
where the context so admits include his/her heirs, executors,
administrators, and assigns).
WHEREAS (A) the LESSOR is the estate owner in fee simple absolute
in possession of the land situated at              _
, in the Parish of _
___________________________ _    ,in  the  State  of  Saint  Vincent   and  the
Grenadines, the subject of a Plan of Development known as the Agricultural
Rehabilitation and Diversification Project;
(B) the LESSOR has agreed with the LESSEE to grant to the LESSEE a
lease of the land hereinafter described being part of larger area for such
period and upon such terms as are hereinafter contained;
NOW THIS LEASE WITNESSETH AS FOLLOWS:
1.       In consideration of the rent and the LESSEE'S covenants
hereinafter contained, the LESSOR hereby demises unto the LESSEE all that
parcel of land situated at                                in the Parish of
the State of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, containing by admeasurement
square feet
(                    ) and is                                   abutted and
bounded on the North by
_____________________________________  on the South by
on the East by
_______________     ____________________________________   and   on   the   West   by
____________________________________ . ..   ,as the same is
more particularly described and delineated on a Plan Number
approved and lodged in the Department of Lands and Surveys on the
day of        , together with all erections (if any) and all ways, waters,
watercourses, rights, liberties, privileges, and easements thereto
belonging or occupied or enjoyed therewith or be reputed to be appurtenant
thereto (hereinafter called the "FARM"). To hold the same unto the LESSEE
for the period of 20 years from the         day of         198_, yielding
and paying therefore the rent of                                   annually
by installments of                                           commencing on
day of          198_  without any deduction or abatement; the said
rent to be subject to annual review.



-30-
Annex 1
Attachment
Page 2 of 5
2.       The LESSEE hereby covenants with the LESSOR as follows:
(a)  to pay all water rates charged by the LESSOR for use of water for
irrigation or otherwise on the premises, and to pay to the LESSOR
for all other utilities consumed thereon;
(b) to pay all taxes, charges, impositions, and assessments whatsoever
specifically payable from time to time during this lease in
respect of the FARM plot;
(c) to use, manage and develop the FARM in accordance -with sound
agricultural practices;
(d) not to use the FARM for any purposes other than agricultural and
not to permit or suffer any part thereof to be used for any other
purpose whatsoever;
(e) not to sublet to any person whatsoever, without the prior consent
of the LESSOR in writing to assign this lease to any such person.
Such consent not to be unreasonably withheld in cases where the
proposed assignee meets the criteria generally applied by the
LESSOR in approving Lessees;
(f) not, without the prior consent in writing of the LESSOR, to
mortgage, charge, or otherwise encumber the FARM or any part
thereof, and such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld;
(g) not to erect new buildings or erections on the FARM other than
those already approved without the prior consent in writing of the
LESSOR;
(h) to permit agents of the LESSOR at all reasonable time, with or
without prior notice, to' enter the FARM and to inspect same;
(i) not to fell or injure any timber or trees without the previous
written consent of the LESSOR;
(j) on termination of the tenancy, peaceably and quietly, to deliver
up vacant possession of the FARM to the LESSOR;
(k)  not to use the FARM for any illegal or immoral purposes;
(1) forthwith upon any notice being served by the LESSOR in respect of
any breach of any of the LESSEE'S covenants, to comply with such
notice and execute any repairs required to be done;
(m)  not to permit or suffer any part of the FARM to be used as to
cause a nuisance or damage to the LESSOR and/or the owners or
occupiers of adjacent property or the neighborhood,



-31-
Annex 1
Attachment
Page 3 of 5
(n) to indemnify and keep harmless the LESSOR and its duly authorized
agents and each and any of them from all loss, damage claims,
suits, and demands whatsoever of all persons whomsoever which may
be made for or by reason of or inconsequence of any act or
omission of the LESSEE in reference to this or any other loss or
damage or liability in respect of or arising out of the use of the
FARM; and
(o) at all time during the continuance of the said term, to comply
with all laws which touch and concern the FARM, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, to comply with the
Town and Country Planning Act 1976 and any regulations or orders
made or in force thereunder relating to a matter or thing
affecting the FARM and to indemnify the LESSOR against all
actions, proceedings, damages, penalties, costs, charges, claims,
and demands in respect of any breach of the said Act, Regulations,
and Orders or any of them.
3.       In addition to the covenants under Clause 2 hereof, the LESSOR
covenants with the LESSEE as follows:
(a) that the LESSEE, paying the said rent and observing and performing
all his obligations under this Lease, may quietly enjoy the said
premises without any lawful interruption by the LESSOR or any
persons rightfully claiming through or under or in trust for him,
and;
(b) that, after this Lease has been in operation for a period of not
less than 10 years, the LESSEE will have an option to purchase the
FARM at a price and upon terms to be negotiated.
4.       IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
(a) that if the said rent hereby reserved or any part thereof shall be
unpaid for the space of thirty (30) days next after the same shall
become due (whether formally demanded or not) or if there shall be
any breach or non-observance of any or either of the covenants on
the LESSEE'S part therein contained to be observed and performed,
or if the LESSEE shall be declared bankrupt, or shall suffer any
distress or any part of their effects in or upon the FARM to be
levied upon or taken inito execution, and the debts for which the
same shall be taken shall remain unpaid for the space of fifteen
(15) days (except for the bona-fide purpose of disputing the
same), then and in any such case it shall be lawful for the
LESSOR, upon giving notice in writing to the LESSEE, to enter into
and upon the FARM or any part thereof and thereupon the term
hereby created shall absolutely determine, but without prejudice
to any right or remedy of either party in respect of any breach of
any of the covenants herein contained;



-32-
Annex 1
Attachment
Page 4 of 5
(b) on the death of the LESSEE, the tenancy shall terminate provided,
however, that if the FARM buildings erections or fixtures are
security for a loan and the mortgage charge or other encumbrance
is still a subsisting security for such loan, the holder of the
security shall be entitled, on election within six (6) months
after the death of the LESSEE, to nominate a successor LESSEE who
satisfies the requirements followed by the LESSUR in selecting
Lessees for a tenancy at the same rent for the remainder of the
term and on the same terms and conditions as the LESSEE, provided
however, that, in the selection of a successor tenant, the holder
of the security shall give priority to the spouse and the child of
the LESSEE;
(c) if the FARM buildings erections and fixtures thereon shall be free
from encumbrances: (i) the LESSEE'S spouse shall have the right,
which shall be exercised within six (6) months after the death of
the LESSEE, to a tenancy of the FARM at the same rent for the
remainder of the term and on the same terms and conditions as the
LESSEE, if such spouse can manage the FARM and satisfies the
requirements followed by the LESSOR in selecting LESSEES, or can
within the same period find to manage the FARM some relative who
satisfies the abovementioned requirements; (ii) if the LESSEE
lea.ves r.o spouse, the choldre.. cf thSc 'ESSEE shall  a-y  the J.   L
to a tenancy of the FARM at the same rent for the remainder of the
term and on the same terms and conditions as the LESSEE, if within
six (6) months after the death of the LESSEE they have found to
manage the FARM some relative (including any of their own number)
who satisfies the requirements followed by the LESSOR in selecting
Lessees; (iii) if no relative can be found who is qualified and
willing to manage the FARM, the spouse or children as the case may
be, shall have the right, within six (6) months after the death of
the LESSEE, to nominate a successor in selecting Lessees for a
tenancy at the same rent for the remainder of the term and on the
same terms and conditions as the LESSEE; (iv) the estate of the
deceased LESSEE shall be entitled to compensation for those
improvements made to the FARM by the LESSEE, provided that any
moneys due to the LESSOR from the LESSEE for rent charges,
breaches of the tenancy, or otherwise in relation to the FARM may
be deducted from such compensation; and (v) for the purpose of
this paragraph, "child" includes any child of the LESSEE whether
born in or out of wedlock; provided that in the case of a child
born out of wedlock it shall be necessary for paternity to have
been established in accordance with the provisions of the Status
of Children Act 1980; "Spouse" includes any person who, for five
(5) years immediately before the death of the LESSEE, was
cohabiting with the LESSEE as man and wife;
5.       If any dispute, doubt, or question arises as to any matter or
thing herein contained, such question shall be referred to arbitration in
accordance with the Arbitration Act.



-33-
Annex 1
Attachment
Page 5 of 5
6.       Any notice required to be given under this Lease shall be in
writing and may be sent through the post as a prepaid registered letter
addressed in the case of the LESSOR at/to its principal place of business
in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and in the case of the LESSEE to the
last known place or abode in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines of the LESSEE
or left with any adult person living on the FARM or lawfully working
thereon.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the above parties to these have hereunto set
their hands and seals the day and year first above written.
THE GOVERNMENT OF SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
(Representative)
SIGNED SE^LED AND DELIVE.RED BY THE SAID LESSEE
IN THE PRESENCE OF (name)



-34-                               ANNEX I
Table 1
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Existing Roads in the Project Area
Estate                          Class 1      Class 2   Class 3       Total
-  -             (miles)    -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -
Langley Park    Feeder Road       -            1.2         -          1.2
Farm Road                      2.5         0.2        2.7
Grand Sable    Feeder R ad        -            -           -          -
Farm Roaa         0.2          0.5         0.2        0.9
Colonarie      Feeder Road        -            -           -          -
Farm Road         0.2          1.9         0.6        2.7
Sans Souci     Feeder Road        -            -           -          -
Farm Road         0.1          1.8         -          1.9
Cane Grove     Feeder Road        -            -           -          -
Farm Road         0.4          0.3         0.4        1.1
Wallilabou      Feeder Road       -            -           -          -
Farm Road         0.5          1.8         -          2.3
Richmond       Feeder Road        -            -           -          -
Farm Road         2.1          3.6         0.9        6.6
Total      3.5          13.6        2.3        19.4
Road Classi-    Type of      Surface                                 Other
fication No.    Surface    Condition        Drainage    Gradient    Remarks
Gravel or   Generally    Well drained   Flat to   Passable
(1)      earthen with smooth or    or with a       5 degrees  with 2-
some grass   giving a     cross-section             wheel
cover       smooth drive. that drains               drive
No potholes/  easily                   vehicle
ruts to very
few
(2)      Bare earth  Fairly smooth Erosion of        0-10     4-wheel
base or base with potholes roadway at    degrees    drive
with little  at some      some locations            vehicle
grass cover  locations                              required
for some
sections
(3)      Bare earth  Generally    Generally poor   0-30       Passable
or grass    very rough   drainage with   degrees   only with
base        with large    roadway as                4-wheel
boulders     main drainage             drive
course.                   rehicle
___ ___ __ ___ __ _  _ __ ___ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ ___ ___________________________________ I   ________________________   _______________________I



-35-
Annex 1
Table 2
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Project Staffing
Number
Project Management
Project Manager                                          1
Accountant                                               1
Secretary/Word Processor                                 1
Total Cost ECS 1,097.000
Land Divestiture
Land Use Planner/Agronomist                              1
Surveyor                                                 1
Survey/Demarcation                                2 Teams
Total Cost EC$ 1,680,000
Road Component
Supervisor                                               1
Senior Surveyor                                          1
Engineering Assistant                                    1
Mechanics                                                2
Equipment Operators                                      4
Cost Clerk                                               1
Purchaser & Payroll Clerk                                1
Drivers                                                  4
Asst. Equipment Operators                                4
Field Guards                                             4
Typist                                                   1
Casual Labor                                            10
Total Ccst EC$ 1,336,000



-36-
Annex 1
Table 3
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
List of Vehicles and Equipment
Item                                        Quantity
Proiect Coordination
Vehicles.                                        3
Office Equipment                                 Various
Land Divestiture
Vehicles (4 WD)                                  3
Survey Equipment                                 Various
Road Component
Bulldozer                                        1
Graders                                          2
Front End Loader                                 1
Dump Trucks                                      3
Water Trucks                                     1
Vehicles (Pickups)                               2
Spare Parts                                      Various
Total Cost EC$ 3,495,000



-37-
ANNEX 1
Table 4
ST VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTIJRAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Pro3ect Cost Estimate
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__---------------------
Local     Foreign   Total       Local    Foreign  Total    X of
- - - - -(ECt'000) - - - -      - - - - (USS'000) - - - - Foreign
Exchange
Road Improvement
Equipment Purchase                190    1,740     1,930        70       645       716      90
Equipment Rental                  60       120       180        20        45        66      89
Fuel & Lubricant                  120      620       640        45       190       236      81
Road Material & Drainage
Structures                     280       400       880       105       150       255      69
Labor                           1,210      125    1,336        446        46       490       9
Maintenance                       60        83       140        20        30        60      60
Subtotal                   1,920    2,986   7 06                                       e106  1,810  61
Land Divestiture
Ta-hni-t! FT7-l-s"re             210       840     1,050        80       310       390      79
Survey Equipment                   10       70        80         5        25        30      83
Vehicles                           10      120       130         6        46        s0      90
Vehicle Operating Cost            90       150       240        35        66        90      61
Survey/Demarcation                510        -       510       190         -       190       -
Subtotal                   131     1 71810    2,010      1T6        5g       7        s8
Ministry of Agriculture
Extension Service                   -      420       420         -       156       15S    100
Land Administration                -       400       400         -       150       1S0    100
Subtotal                     -      820       820         -        016 1ag          100
Pro ect Management
Staff                           1,161        -    1,181        430         -       430       -
Office Rental                    120         -       120        45         -        45       -
Office Equipment                  46       180       226        16        66        80      81
Vehicles                           10      120       130         5        45        s0      90
Vehicle Operating Cost            90       150       240        36        66        90      el
Subtotal                  1,426       450    -1,878       63e       1         Ws      24
Total Base Cost         4,176     6,436    9,811      1,660    2,010      3,650      67
Continpencies
Physical                          40        80       120        15        30        45      67
Expected Price Increases         530       555     1,095       195       205       400      61
Subtotal                   570      635     1,206       210       235       446      62
TOTAL COST                       4,746    6.070    10,816      1.780    2.245    4,006        6e
--  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



ST. VINCENT AND TtIlE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION ANID DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total                      1989                   1990                        1991
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  ForeigrT '7tG    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Fore-gn  Total
Road Improvemnt
Equipment Purchase a Spares   190   1,740   1,930          -       -       -      20      176     195       170   1,665   1,735
Equipment Rental                 60      120     180       -       -       -       -        -       -         -        -       -
Fuel & Lubricant                120     620      840       -       -       -       -        -       -         -        -       -
Road Materials A Drainage
Structures                    280     400      680       -       -       -       -        -       -         -       -        -
Labor                         1,210      125   1,336       -       -       -       5       10      1S         5      26       30
Maintenance                      80       80     140                               -        -       -         -        -       -
Subtotal              1,920   2,9876   4,906       -        -      -       26        6     210      17S   1,590   1,765
Land Divestiture
Technical Assistance            210     840   1,050       20      70      90      70      280     350        70     280      350
Survey Equipment                 10       70      80      10      70      80       -        -        -        -        -       -
Vehicles                         10      120     130       -        -      -      10      120     130         -        -       -
Vehicles Operating Cost          90      1S0     240       -                      i s 15   25      40        15       25      40
Survey/Demarcation              S10        -     510       -        -      -     170        -      170      170        -     170
Subtotal               830   1,180   2,010       30      140    170      265     426      690      256    306       660 
Ministry of Agriculture
Extension Service                 -     420      420       -       -       -       -      210     210         -     210      210
Land Administration               -     400      400       -       -       -       -      110     110         -     110      110
Subtotal                -      820     8i2       --20                                    320        -O 30           2-0
Project Management
Staff                         1,161        -   1,161    165        -    165      168        -     166         e        -     166
Office Rental                   120        -     120       -       -       -      20        -      20        20        -      20
Office Equipment                 45     180      225      45     180    226        -        -       -         -       -        -
Vehicles                         10      120     130       -       -       -      10      120     130         -        -       -
Vehicles Operating Cost          90      150     240       -          -    -      15       25      40        15      25       40
Subtotal             1,426      460   T,876    2I0    1TO       39i0     211     146      368      201       i      226
Total Base Cost    4,176   6,436   9,811    240         320    680      501   1,075   1,576       631   2,240   2,871
Contincencies
Physical                         40       80     120       -       -       -       -        -        -        -        -       -
Expected Price Increases        530     S65   1.085        -       -       -      20       56      75        40     190      230
Subtotal              S70      635   1,205       -        -      -       20      S6       7S       40      190     230
Grand Total Cost                4,746   6,070  10,816    240       320    560      521   1.130  12.81         671   2.430   3,101
=o >z
03D 



ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Exp),nditures (Cont'd)
1992                      1993                    1994                        1995
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign lTEotFal   Local Foreign Total
_ -  --   -   -   -   -   -                     PO     EC   _ 7  -   -   -C  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
Road Improv mnt
Equipment Purchase A Spares       -        -                                       - -  -  -     -           -
Equipment Rental                 20       35      56      20     35       56      20       S0      70                  -       -
Fuel A Lubricant                 30      100     130      30    100     130       30      100     130        30     220      250
Road Materials A Drainage
Structures                     90      135     226     90    135      225       90     140      230         -       -        -
Labor                           280       30     310    280      30     310      280       20     300       370        -     370
Maintenance                       -        -      -        -      -        -      30       80      e0        30       s0      80
Subtotal                42I 0            720    420      103 720          9i        1     7910      430      270      700
Land Divestiture
Technical Assistance             50      210     260       -      -        -       -        -                 -        -       -
Survey Equipment                  -        -       -       -      -        -       -        -       -         -        -       -
Vehicles                                   -          -           -            -            -       -             -            -
Vehicles Operating Cost          1s       26      40      1s     25       40      1S       26      40        15       26      40
Survey/Demarcation              170        -     170       -      -        -       -        -       -         -        -       -
Subtotal               235      235     470      16     25       40      1        2S       40               124
Ministry of Acriculture
Extension Service                 -        -       -       -      -        -       -        -       -         -       -        -
Land Administration               -      110     110       -     70       70                        --
Subtotal                        10     110       -     70       70       -        -        -        -        -        -
Project Management
Staff                           166        -     16        S 168  -        8       8-             16        166        -     166
Office Rental                    20        -      20      20      -      20       20        -      20        20        -      20
Office Equipment                  -        -       -       -      -        -       -        -                 -        -       -
Vehicles                          -        -       -         --                                              -                 -
Vehicles Operating Cost          16       26      40      1s     26      40       1S       25      40        1s      26       40
Subtotal               201       TS    i226    21       Fs                        25     228       Wo,       Fs     228
Total Base Cost       856      870   1,526    836    420   1,058    e66         390   1,068       64e      320     986
Cont;ngencies
PPhysicai                        10       20      30      10     20       30      10       20      30        10      20       30
Expected Price Increases         85       85     170     95      es      180     130       75     205       180      85      245
Subtotal               95    i0       200    10S      86      19      4140      9S     236       i70      105     27S
Grand Total Cost                  961      776   1,726    741    505   1,248       806      485   1.291      s81      425   1,241
_  -   -              -                                                          X, 1 F3 1 >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0
H1,



-40-
ANNEX 1
Table 6
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan and IDA Credit
------------------------------------------------------------------__-
IBRD Fiscal Year              Half-Yearly             Cumulative
& Semester                 Disbursements          Disbursement
-------------------------------------------------------_--------__---
-  - - - - -(US$ '000) -  - - - 
1990
December 31, 1989                  100                      100
June 30, 1990                      100                      200
1991
December 31, 1990                  140                      340
June 30, 1991                      220                      560
1992
__C.m.r _ , _1, Il                                        1,A  .
June 30, 1992                      170                    1,390
1993
December 31, 1992                  200                    1,590
June 30, 1993                     200                     1,790
1994
December 31, 1993                  200                    1,990
June 30, 1994                      200                    2,190
1995
December 31, 1994                  200                    2,390
June 30, 1995                      110                    2,500
1996
December 31, 1995                  100                    2,600
June 30, 1996                      100                    2,700
1997
December 31, 1996                  100                    2,800
----- -- --- ----- --- --- ----- ---- - ----- - ----- ---- - ----- ----.



ST. VgIW[N O N)TE hfYDWINES
GClQlULAL iFWILITATlIC AND DIVE{IFIQOTIGN FR1JT
Project Inplemsdation StheIle
YeE and Q.orte
____                 1990                 1991                 1992                  1993                 1994                  t995
Project  pnt                           _               _                                                                                                             .
I    II    III    IV |  I  I               IIIIII  IV  I  I I  ill  V1I  I III    III    IV     II Ii  t            III    IV  I      1II I   IV
Preparaticn of Tera'                                             )OOO(
Averising & OE iipatirg VeOO( )O(
DlhII-titre (boocgs oo  ,oooc ooof ooo  occoooc eooc  oco l    
| Tminrg Ia n                                                                                                                              ococ ooc(  I v)O  o 0     0    )   oo| 0x0m  oxooc ,oom 
laui1nent of Caisuilitar
Sarid Divestiture S c
0-w)wraid S   onIe (87)                                                                        )O O(  )OO  0OO)OM  OOO
Lamiget Park  (93)                                                                             ooc)OOOC00X )OOC Mo
Ridhwid (32)                                                                                                                              ooo0 cooc   )Om~o
Ministry of Agriculture
Training of SwIS (72 in)                                        )OM OC(Moo  ,OOOC Xooo AMo ,ooc  OOOC )OOCK
Training in Laid AchI n. (120 'in)                    )OOCK cOOOC oo )Ooc cooc )Ooc co  )OM  OOC cOOCK cOc cooco   cOOOC )Ooc coocC )0=
Pauiii,wf 18    Of FroJ. awo     cooc
114crulimiui of Support Staff                        cc
Pigdvm Of alu1pait                              coo
Pirchase of Vehicles                               W  x-
[Ow~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>~t?



-42--
Annex 2
Page 1 of 9
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Benefits and Justification
Introduction
1.       This annex evaluates the expected production under the project of
the principal crops to be produced, impact of the project on the
beneficiaries' income, and economic rate of return on project investments.
Background information on the project area, assessment of the potential for
agricultural development, is presented first.
The Project Areas
2.       Location and Areas.  The seven state estates to be divested are
located in the windward and leeward coastal belts. They are:
-------------------------------------------------------------------__----
Area
Estate            Gross Area     Cultivable Land   Presently Cultivated
- - - - - - - - - - - - - (Acres) -  - - - - - - - - - - -
Cane Grove              90                 66                    6
Sans Souci              90                 70                   66
Colonarie              210                140                  133
Grand Sable             50                 50                   50
Langley Park           350                280                  230
Wallilabou           1,300                600                  480
Richmond             2,600              1,300                1.130
Total           4,690              2,506                2,108
3.       Cane Grove is unoccupied except for some area used for
demonstration.  All other estates have squatters, with the following
occupancy estimates:
Number of
Estate              Occupants
Cane Grove                0
Sans Souci               31
Colonarie                64
Grand Sable              36
Langley Park            145
Wallilabou              216
Richmond                119
Total          611



-43-                            Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
4.       Occupants on Sans Souci, Colonarie, Grand Sable and Langley Park
have no use rights; most are residents in surrounding villages. At
Wallilabou, the squatters have been assessed a nominal land rent of about
EC$ 3 per acre annually; almost all holdings are less than one acre.   The
119 occupants at Richmond have leasehold rights, but the areas occupied
have still not been surveyed and demarcated.
5.       Physical Features.  The estates are located close to the coast.
Cane Grove, which is dissected by the Buccament river, is located in a
narrow river plain facing the south. Sans Souci, Colonarie, Grand Sable
and Langley Park are facing the windward coast; their river valleys face
the east. The contour provides some protection but exposed areas are
subject to the drying effects of the trade winds. Wallilabou and Richmond
are both facing the west. Wallilabou consists of three river valleys, and
Richmond spans about two miles of coast and consists of a series of four
parallel rivers with relatively flat valley floors rising to steep
mountains. The physical features of the estates are summarized below:
Physical Features
Soil                                   Slope Range
Estate          Type          Elevation       0-10   11-20   21-50  Above 50
(feet)       - - - - - - (Z) - - - - 
Cane Grove    Shoals             10-70         75         5       -       -
Sans Souci    Shoals             20-200        80       10       10       -
Colonarie      Alluvial          25-425        10       20       50      20
Grand Sable   Sandy Alluvial   25-75          100         -       -       -
Langley Park  Sandy Alluvial   25-300          40       50        5       5
Wallilabou    Yellow Earth
Alluvial        10-1200       10       30       30     30
Richmond       Shoals Sands      10-1200       20       20       30      30
6.       Production Unit Profile.  Production units in SVG are typically
small scale, and average around three acres. The pattern of production
varies according to rainfall, and all cultivable lands which have been
owned or occupied by squatters for more than five years appear to be 100%
utilized.
7.       Small farmers in the highlands have developed holdings almost
entirely devoted to tree crops. Bananas predominate, with yields markedly
above the average for the country. Other crops include mangoes,
breadfruit, nutmeg, some cocoa and sour sop, but these occupy only small
areas usually close to the house. Annuql crop cultivation is confined to
small areas for vegetable production and cash crops. Most highland areas



-44-                            Annex 2
Page 3 of 9
ere sloping to steep, and the land use pattern with a high percentage of
perennial crops represent a rational use of the land. Family labor
available on these units is less than fully utilized.
8.       Smallholders operating on lowland properties have also been
progressively planting their holdings in bananas. Only small areas remain
in annual crops, but with a continuation of recent trends these too are
likely to be converted to banana. The small areas still devoted to annual
crops are used for producing root crops and vegetables. Family labor here
is also underemployed.
9.       Squatters on estates formerly devoted to arrowroot or sugarcane
have followed the trend to banana production, but still have less than
half the total area in this crop; tree crops are mostly planted close to
the house plot. These cultivators produce a wide selection of annual crops
such as yams, sweet potatoes, eddoes and, more recently, also some ginger
and turmeric as well as vegetables. Even with the higher labor demands of
annual cropping of such crops, most of the families have surplus labor.
10.      Potential for Agricultural Development.  The estates are suitable
for production of a wide range of tree and root crops, and vegetables.
Techniques for increasing yield of the crops now grown have been developed
by research, and technical packages are already available with the
extension service. There are also fairly new diversification crops with
proven development potential for which recommendations are available. Crop
development packages available involve a wide range of complimentary
cultural activities, such as pest control, application of fertilizers, and
pruning and weeding.
11.      Cane Grove has a potential for irrigated vegetable production from
the Buccament river. Because of the low lift required and proximity of all
plots to the river, no sophisticated engineering survey is needed. There
are already more than 10 families in the area with experience of intensive
vegetable production who could grow two vegetable crops annually (tomatoes,
peppers, onions, carrots and others, including corn, beans, cabbage,
cucumbers, okra etc).
12.      Potential for development of Sans Souci, Colonarie and Grand Sable
estates is limited by the very small area of land presently unutilized.
These estates contain a large percentage of land with contour suitable for
annual crops, although more than 85Z of the presently utilized area is
devoted to bananas.
13.      In Langley Park, the soils are generally coarser, and production
on this estate will be more subject to seasonal variations than others on
the windward coast. Some 50 acres of this estate which are presently
unused hold an immediate potential for production increase. Contour of
most of the area is suitable for annual crop cultivation, and 40Z of the
utilized area is planted in annual crops.
14.      Wallilabou is the largest of the estates, with a high percentage
of non-cultivable land. Potential for increasing production is good,



-45-
Annex 2
Page 4 of 9
particularly because 20Z of the cultivable area is now unused. Soils on
the lower lands are snaitable for annual crop cultivation. There is also
potential for tree crop planting and for increasing tree crop yields on
slopelands.
15.      Richmond also has a h4gh percentage of non-cultivable land, but
bananas presently occupy almost 90Z of the utilized area. Sources of
increased production in the future would be primarily the development of
cultivable areas now unused along with yield increases in bananas and
annual crops now grown.
Development of Production Potential
16.      Sources and Processes of Develomn.ent.  Development of the
production potential would be achieved mainly through provision of legal
access to within acceptable reach of each cultivator's plot; and technical
support to assist the farmers in adopting rational land use, *n increasing
yields of existing crops, and in introducing new (diversification) crops
for which satisfactory markets are available.
17.      The experience with bananas shows that farmers are responsive to
incentives. The extension service (through its agricultural instructors or
AIs), through demonstrations, farmer meetings and publications, would
promote improved practices for crops known to have remunerative markets;
tor each estate, the extension program would be started during the year uf
land allocation. Many farmers are expected to adopt the packages to be
presented to them in two years, but the more cautious will develop more
slowly. Extent and speed of adoption will be closely related to profit per
acre, and per day of work. During the first year of demonstration, farmers
will observe and formulate ideas to be tried the following year if markets
remain attractive. Adoption can be expected to start in the second year,
and, on average, the level of peak adoption will be reached over three
years.
18.      Cane Grove would be subdivided into 40 farms of 1.5 acres each.
Individual plots would be designed so that 30 farms are adjacent to the
Buccament river, and the remaining 10 which would be located about 150
yards distance from the river, would have easements ensuring their rights
of access for water. Investments would include purchase of low lift pumps,
delivery piping, standpipes, flexible hoses and land levelling.
19.      Sans Souci, Colonarie ind Grand Sable, should be divided into 87
farms having an average of three acres. Development would entail initially
the establishment of annual crops on suitable unused lands, and
introduction of technologies to improve yields of annual crops and bananas.
As part of the land use program, the practice of intercropping of annual
crops would be encouraged to the extent possible, keeping cover on the land
and providing mulch. Replacement of bananas with more remunerative crops
would be encouraged by the extension service, but little change is expected
to occur unless banana prices fall substantially. Bananas removed from
areas suitable for annual crops could be replaced by crops such as ginger,
turmeric, eddoes, tannia, yams or sweet potatoes depending on the market
prospects for each.



-46-
Annex 2
Page 5 of 9
20.      Langley Park would produce 93 farms of three acres each.
Development would concentrate firstly on establishment of annual crops on
unused areas, introduction of improved technology for the existing crops
grown, and some changes in crops according to market opportunities.
21.      Wallilabou contains large areas of steep land which should be
reserved and protected. The cultivable area should be divided into 200
farms with an average area of three acres. Initially unused land would be
brought into production in accordance with the land use plan to be promoted
under the project, with annual crops on the flattest areas and tree crops
on the slopes. At the same time, improved practices would be introduced
for the existing crops.
22.      Richmond, like Wallilabou, also contains large areas that should
be reserved and protected. The cultivable land on the valley floors and
lower more gradual slopes should be divided into 400 farms averaging four
dcres. Development of these would be as described for Sans Sowci.
23.      Phasing of Divestiture.  Phasing of development on each of the
estates would be determined primarily by the land divestiture program. In
all cases, the extension service would begin activities in the year that
use-rights are allocated and effective development would follow one year
later.   The estimated number of holdings that would be divested is shown
below:
Cumulative Holdings to be Divested
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Estate
Cane Grove                             0      40     40      40     40
Sans Souci, Colonarie, Grand Sable   0         0     87      87     87
Langley Park                           0       0     93      93     93
Wallilabou                             0       0      0    200    200
Richmond                               0       0      0       0    325
Total                              0     40    220    420    745
Marketing
24.      Agricultural marketing is basically in the hands of the private
sector, although the Government participates to some extent. There are
four major agricultural marketing organizations, which are expected to
market project produce. Those are: the St. Vincent Banana Growers
Association, the East Caribbean Agencies, Organization for Rural
Development, and the Traffickers Associations.
25.      The St. Vincent Banana Growers Association (SVBGA), which has over
5,000 active members, has an efficient organization and management in
place, and it functions relatively free of Government interference. The
Association has sole authority for export of bananas and provides services
to members, including procurement and distribution of inputs, credit and
extension (12 field officers), in addition to collection of produce and
exporting, through Geest Industries, to the UK market. Bananas are



-47-
Annex 2
Page 6 of 9
purchased from SVBGA and shinned by Geest which has a regular shipment
schedule every Wednesday for the UK. Small amounts of other crops are also
transported, some of which are actually purchased by Geest Foods. Main
commodities transported, apart from bananas, are ginger, coconuts,
arrowroot and mangoes. Space is limited by the priority given to bananas,
which also have to be picked up from other East Caribbean islands. SVBGA
is run by a General Manager under the supervision of a Board of Directors,
half of whom are appointed by Government and the rest elected by grower
members. In 1986, it had a net income of US$2.2 million equivalent, over
half of which was set aside in disaster funds.
26.      The East Caribbean Agencies (ECA) is the main exporter of fresh
produce from St. Vincent to outside the Caribbean region. It is a private
organization exporting, on average, about 820 tons per year of produce.
Over 50Z of this is breadfruit; another 30Z is ground provisions and
ginger; and the balance, fruits. About a third of produce is exported by
sea and the rest by air. The main destination is Canada, where ECA has a
sister company, followed by the USA and the UK. ECA purchases directly
from farmers either by sending its trucks into the countryside or by
accepting produce delivered in Kingstown. Recently, ECA has been
experiencing substant'al losses due to the unreliability of the air freight
service. Apart from a small share by the passenger airline LIAT, air
transport of produce has been the monopoly of a charter company owned by
the Barbados Government.   Potential ex'-ra-regional competitors have been
prPvAnted from entering the market by the refusal of the Barbados
Government to grant landing rights in Barbados for trans-shipment. In
1987, ECA took steps to end this dependence. A small plane (capacity 2.5
tons) is to be purchased by an affiliated SVG company, Eastern Caribbean
Lines. It is expected that the problem of landing rights will be resolved
as, under reciprocity agreements, the Barbados Government will be unable to
deny these to another company from the region. With the new plane, ECA
expects to be able to ship its own produce and also that of other
exporters.
27.      The Organization for Rural Development (ORD) is a non-profit and
community-based organization founded in 1976. It has about 1,500 farmers
members. The objective of the organization is to promote self-reliant
development in the countryside and, in this context, agricultural
activities are of prime importance. One of the most important services
provided by ORD is the marketing of agricultural produce. The ORD
supervises production of certain crops for which it provides the farmer
with a contract and undertakes marketing. Supervision is carried out by 18
field workers supported by volunteers. They also help farmers to prepare
loan requests for presentation to ORD's local Loan Committees (about 600
members are currently in receipt of loans). ORD arranges supply of inputs
which the farmer can either obtain on credit or purchase directly at ORD
stores located throughout the country. ORD then purchases contracted crops
and occasionally other produce provided it meets quality standards. On the
post-harvest side, substantial additional efforts have gone into promoting
higher quality produce by provision of field crates and transportation
services and grading. Crops for which ORD has export contracts include
ginger, for which a substantial contract of one million pounds per year has
been obtained from the Caribbean Agricultural Trading Company (CATCO); hot
peppers and puiipkins, for which there is a market in Canada, and turmeric
for which it has a contract to export to the USA. Most other crops are



-48-
Annex 2
Page 7 of 9
handled by the Organization at times and subsequently sold through private
exporters to the regional market. In 1986, these sales were of the order
of 55 tons of ground provisions, 20 tons of plantains and bananas (for the
local market) and two tons of fruits and vegetables. Some ground
provisions are also exported via CATCO to the UK and Canada. ORD has been
successful in obtaining financial and technical support from external
sourcos, such as the Pan American Development Foundation (PADF), to improve
marketing services to its members.
28.      The traffickers are private traders who purchase a wide variety of
crops directly from farmers; most farmers rely on the traffickers for
selling their produce. Some traffickers operate in the Kingstown market
where they sell most fruits, vegetables and legumes. Others focus on
inter-island trade, handling mainly root crops but also fruits, plantains
and avocados. Quality of produce is low due to poor post-harvest practices
and inadequate transit conditions; for example, vessels used to transport
produce to Trinidad have ho provision for cargo ventilation. There are no
facilities for washing and grading produce. The traffickers have an
association with a membership of 275, but it is not well-organized and
members tend to go their own way. For example, there is no scheduling of
export shipments to ensure regular supply.
Prices
29.      Prices which are used for the financial and economic analysis are
shown in Table 5. For bananas, the most important crop, the economic price
has been derived from the UK Green Market Price. As pressure on prices is
expected to augment due to oversupply on both the UK and world markets, and
because of the uncertainty of the continuation of preferential access of
St. Vincent in the protected UK market beyond 1992, the price of bananas
are expected to decline gradually through the turn of the century.
Impact on Production
30.      Bananas are the dominant crops grown in the project area at
present. They occupy about 60? of the cultivable area, and are projected
to continue to account for about the same proportion of the cultivable
land. Other crops grown are root crops (principally sweet potatoes,
eddoes) which account for 10? of the area; and tree crops (principally
mangoes and avocados), all of which account for about 15X of the cultivable
land; the remaining 152 of the land is not utilized.
31.      With the project, bananas are expected to continue to be the
dominant crop. As long as there continues to be protected and profitable
export market for bananas in the UK, the farmers are likely to continue
their tradition of cultivating the crop since the market for the
alternative products, such as root crops, is not as certain or as
predictable as for the bananas. Furthermore, the recent depreciation of
the U.S. dollar (to which the local currency is pegged) has increased the
farmgate price of export bananas as the UK guaranteed prices are quoted in
the British Pound. Thus, the guaranteed market and the increasing trend in
the farmgate prices for bananas would favor retention of the area under the
crop. However, the 400 acres of uncultivated land are expected to be used



-49-
Annex 2
Page 8 of 9
for increasing the area under other crops. There are new promising crops
such as spices (ginger, turmeric), vegetables (carrots, peppers, onions,
tomatoes), and tropical fruits such as mangoes, which are expected to be
cultivated under the project. The area under root crops is ptujected to
increase to nearly 201. Spices, tree crops, and vegetables are projected
to account for, respectively 72, 5% and 82. There would be no unutilized
land so that cropping intensity would increase from current level of 85% to
about 1002.
32.      Under the project, the farmers would have more freedom of action
to grow any crop to the dictates of the market since they would have
security of tenure which would permit them to make rational economic
decision in response to market signals. They are also expected to take
more risks in making long-term investments in perennial crop development,
and short-term investments in use of improved farm technology to increase
crop yields.
Impact of the Beneficiaries' Income
33.      Five farm models have been prepared to illustrate the likely
impact of the project on incomes of the beneficiaries. All the models
indicate that farme:s would have adequate financial incentives to
participate in the project. The holding sizes used in the models are based
on the assumption that the farmers would not reduce the areas under
bananas, and that they would grow the non-banana crops on the additional
acreages which would be put to production under the project. If, however,
the farmers were to reduce the areas under bananas and increase further the
areas under non-banana crops, then the size of holding needed to attain the
target annual income of EC$ 7,000 would be about three acres per family for
all estates (based on prevailing markets and prices for all crops), except
for Cane Grove where 1.5 acres would suffice.
34.      Estimates of present and full-development production, for the
major crops, which are expected to be attained 12 years after initiation of
the project, are summarized below:
-----------------------------------------------------------__--------
Production
Crops                      Present      With Project       Incremental
-               ( -   -   -   -   -  -   (tons)   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
Bananas                     6,770             8,130          1,350
Cocoa                           5                20              15
Other Tree Crops                5                60              55
Eddoes                        145               380             235
Ginger                        110               545             435
Sweet Potatoes                470             1,025            555
Turmeric                       45               290             245
Yams                          470             1,135             665
Tomatoes                        0                80              80
Peppers                         0                55              55
Onions                          0                80              80
Carrots                         0                55              55
Other Vezetables              520               855             335



-50-                             Annex 2
Page 9 of 9
Economic Rate of Return
35.      The economic rate of return, which is based on the quantifiable
benefits of the project to be obtained from increased intensity of land use
and higher crop yields, is estimated at about 232. All cost and benefit
streams have been computed in constant 1988 prices. The cropping pattern,
crop yields and their development, technology and its adoption, and crop
output development are as discussed above.
36.      A reduction in the price of bananas to world price levels would
reduce the ERR to about 192. Results of other sensitivity tests are
summarized below:
Internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
Up      Up      Down      Down       Lag       Lag
Item           BTOT    102      202       10%      20%    1 Year    2 Years
CTOT              23      26       30       17        14       17        13
Up lOZ            19      23       26       15        11       14        11
up 2oz            16      19       23       12         7       12         9
Down 10X          27      30       34       23        18       20        16
Down 2OZ          31      35       39       27        23       23        18
Lag 2 Years        -       -        -        -         -       23        23
Present Value of Net Streams at a Discount Rate of 13.52
Up       Up       Down     Down       Lag       Lag
Item           BTOT    102       20%       10      20Z    1 Year    2 Years
- - - - - - - - - - -  (EC$  000) -  - - - - - - - - - -  _
CTOT          3,650   5,320    7,000    1,970         300    1,655       -100
Up 10         2,340   4,015    5,690       660   -1,015       345    -1,410
Up 202        1,025   2,700    4,380       -650   -2,325      -970    -2,720
Down 10%      47960   6,635    8,310    3,285    1,610    2,970         1,210
Down 20X      6,270   7,945    9,620    4,595    2,920    4,275         2,520
Lag 2 Years        -       -         -        -         -        -      2,830



-51-
Annex 2
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
AgrociImatic Zones and Possible Land Use
Item               Zone 1       Zone II       Zone III    Zone IVA      Zone IVB    Zone V       Zone VI
Altitude (ft.)      <300        >300          <800        >800          >600         (200        >1000
Rainfall (in.)      <85         75-86         86-100      (86           86-100       (86         >100
No. of Dry
Months          2-3          2-3           1           3-8           1           2-4          --
Soils              Shoals       Yellow        Yellow       Recent       Recent      Alluvium    Yellow
Earth        Earth         Volcanic    Volcanic                  Earth
Ash         Ash
Earth
Possible Land Use:
Sorrel      *,oconut      Coconut      Coconut      Coconut     Pasture      Forest
Peanut      Mango         Breadfruit   Banana       Breadfruit
Sw.Potato   Plantain      Mango        Mango        Cocoa
Corn        Banana        Citrus       Plantain    Citrus
Cassava  _ iiit              _r__cwz  rt  Banana
Vegetable   Sugar Cane   Plantain      Sw.Potato   Plantain
Pigea Peas  Onion         Banana       Corn         Mango
Pigea Pea    Yam           Cornpea     Aroid
Sorrel       Aroid         Sugarcane   Sw. Potato
Cassava      Sw.Potato    Yam          Yam
Tobacco      Onion         Tobacco     Tomato
Corn         Ginger                    Cornpua
Arrowroot    Carrot                    Ginger
Yam                                    Carrot
Sw.Potato                              Onion



-52-
ANNEX 2
rablF e 2
Page 1 of 2
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Evolution of Cropping Pattern Under Project
---------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Estate/Crops                  Without            With Prolect
Project  1990   1991  1992   1993  1994-2013
-------------------------------------------------------------__-----------
- - - - - - - - - (Acres) - - - - - - -
Cane Grove
Tomatoes                        a      0     16    15    15       16
Pepper                          0      0     15    15    15    15
Onions                          0      0     15    15    15    15
Carrots                         0      0     15     16    15    15
Others                          0      0      0     30     30     30
Unutilized                     60     60      0      0      0      0
Total Cultivable Area          R0    io      ei iB         e      e0
Grand Sable,
Colonarie. Sans Souci
Bananas                       215    216    216    216    216    215
Yams                           10    10    10    10        10    10
Sweet Potatoes                 10    10    10       10     10    10
Ginger                          0      0      0      6      6      5
Turmeric                        0      0      0      6      6      6
Eddoes                         10    10    10       10     10    10
Vegetables (Rainfad)            6      6      6      6      5      6
Intercrop                      10    10    10    15    15    15
Unutilized                     10    10    10        0      0      0
Total Cultivable Area         sa    TA-ci   eRa    na^    -a    xs
Lanpley Park
Bananas                       140    140    140    140    140    140
Yams                           30     30     30     40     40     40
Sweet Potatoes                 30    30      30     40     40     40
Ginger                         10    10    10    26        26     26
Turmeric                        6      6      6     15    15    15
Eddoes                          6      6      6     10     10     10
Vegetables (Rainfed)           10    10    10    10        10    10
Intercrop                      30    30      a0    50      50     50
Unutilized                     50    60    50        0      0      0
Total Cultivable Area         TO     280    280   ]-      8    NO
Wallllabou
Bananas                       150    150    150    150    150    150
Cocoa (existing)               40     40     40     40     40     40
Cocoa (new)                     0      0      0      0      0      0
Other Tree Crops (existing)    10    10    10       10     10     10
Yams                           80    80      80    80      80     80
Sweet Potatoes                 80     so    80      e0    B0      60
Ginger                         10    10    10       10    40      40
Turmeric                       10    10    10    10    30         30
Eddoes                         20    20      20     20     30     30
Vegetables (Rainfed)          100    100    100    100    100    100
Intercrop                      80    80      80     80    120    120
Unutilized                    120    120    120    120      0      0
Total Cultivable Area         800    600   800    800   o0o    800



-53-
ANNEX 2
T-able 2
Page 2 of 2
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Evolution of Cropping Pattern Under Project Cont'd
--------------------------------------------------------------__----------
Estate/Crops                   Without            With Project
Project  1990   1991  1992   1993  1994-2013
- - - - - - - - - (Acres) - - - - - - -
Richmond
Bananas                      1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000
Mangoes (existing)              20     20     20     20      20     20
Other Tree Crops (new)           0      0      0      0       0     40
Yams                            30     30     30     30      30     70
Sweet Potatoes                  30     30     30     30      30     80
Ginger                          10     10     10     10      10     30
Turmeric                         6      6      5      6       6     30
Eddoes                           6      6      6      6       6     20
Vegetables (rainfed)            30     30     30     30      30     30
Intercrop                       g0     30     30     30     30      80
Unutilkzed                     170    170    170    170    170       0
Total Cultivable Area        1,300  1,300  1,300  1,300  1,300  1,300
All Estates
Bananas                      1,606  1,506  1,606  1,606  1,506  1,506
Mangoes                         20     20     20     20      20     20
Cocoa (existing)                40     40     40     40      40     40
Cocoa (now)                      0      0      0      0      20     20
Other Tree Crops (existing)    10      10     10     10      10     10
Other Tree Crops (new)           0      0      0      0      0      40
Yams                           150    150    lb0    ii6    2i6    2G6
Sweet Potatoes                 130    130    130    140    180    190
Ginger                          30     30     30     50      80    100
Turmeric                        20     20     20     36      66     80
Eddoes                          40     40     40     46      66     70
Vegetables (rainfed)           14t    146    146    146    146    145
Intercrop                      150    150    150    176    216    265
Tomatoes (irrigated)             0      0     15     15      15     15
Peppers (irrigated)              0      0     15     15      15     15
Onions (irrigated)               0      0     15     15      15     15
Carrots (irrigated)              0      0     1S     15      15     16
Other Vegetables (irrigated)    0       0      0     30      30     30
Unutilized                     410    410    350    290    170       0
Project Cultivable Area      2.500  2.600  2.500  2,530  2.530  2,630



ST. VINCENT AbD THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Buildup of Crop Yields
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Without                                                   With F'roject
Crops              Project         1           2           3           4           5            6            7           8           9         10 - 25
------------------------------------------------------------------------__---__-------------------------------------------------
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ('000 lbs/acre) - - - - -                             - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _
Bananas                  10.0       11.0        11.6        12.0        12.0         12.0        12.0         12.0        12.0        12.0          12.0
Cocoa (existing)          0.3        0.4         0.6         0.6         0.6          0.6         0.6          0.6         0.6         0.6           0.6
Cocoa (new)               0.0        0.0         0.0         0.1         0.2          0.4         0.6          0.8         0.9          1.0          1.0
Other Tree Crops
(existing)             1.0        1.0         1.0          1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0           1.0         1.0         1.0          1.0
Other Tree Crops
(nov)                  0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0         0.6         1.0         3.0          5.0          5.0         6.0          5.0
Yams                      7.0        9.0        11.0        12.0        12.0         12.0        12.0         12.0        12.0        12.0          12.0
sweet rotatoes            8.0       10.0        11.0        12.0        12.0         12.0        12.0         12.0        12.0        12.0          12.0
Ginger                    8.0       10.0        12.0        13.0        13.0         13.0        13.0         13.0        13.0        13.0          13.0
Turmeric                  6.0        7.0         8.0         8.0         8.0          8.0         8.0          8.0         8.0         8.0           8.0
Eddoes                    8.0       10.0        11.0        12.0        12.0         12.0        12.0         12.0        12.0        12.0          12.0
Vegetables (rainfed)   8.0          10.0        11.0        11.0        11.0         11.0        11.0         11.0        11.0        11.0          11.0
Intercrop                 8.0        0.9         1.0         1.1         1.2          1.2         1.2          1.2         1.2         1.2           1.2
Tomatoes (irrig)          0.0       10.0        12.0        12.0        12.0         12.0        12.0         15.0        15.0        15.0          16.0
Pepper (irrig)            0.0        6.0         8.0         8.0          8.0         8.0         8.0          8.0         8.0         8.0           8.0
Onion (irrig)             0.0        9.0        12.0        12.0        12.0         12.0        12.0         12.0        12.0        12.0          12.0
Carrots (irrig)           0.0        6.0         8.0         8.0         8.0          8.0         8.0          8.0         8.0         8.0           8.0
(D x
,_ em



ANNEX 2
Table 4
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Development of Crop Output
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__----------------------------------
Without                                With Proiect
Estate/Crops              Project  1990  1991  1992   1993  1994  1996  1996  1997  1998  1999 2000-2013
( -    -     -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -     -    -  tons)   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -  
Cane Grove
Tvm toes                     0      0    68    81    81       Si    81    81    81    81    81    81
Peppers                      0      0    41    54    54    54    54    54    54    54    54    64
Onions                       0      0    81    81    81    81    81    81    81    81    81    81
Carrots                      0      0    41    64    54    64    54    54    54    54    54    54
Others                       0      0      0    105   135   135   135   135   135   135   135   13S
Grand Sable,
Colonarie. Sans Souci
Bananas                    968   968   968  1,084  1,113  1,181  1,161  1,181  1,161  1,181  1,161  1,161
Yam,                        32    32    32    41    S0    54    54    54            0      0      0      0
Sweet Potatoes              3S    38    38    45    S0    54    54    54    64    54    54    54
Ginger                       0      0      0     18    23    27    27    27    27    27    27    27
Turmeric                     0      0      0     11    i8    18    18    18    18    18    18    18
Eddoes                      36    38    3S    45    S0    54    54    54    54    54    54    54
Vegetables (rainfed)        18    18    18    23    25    25    25    25    25    25    25    25                                   1
U,
Intercrop                    4      4      4      a      7      7     8      8      8      8      8      8                        un
Lanaloy Park
Bananas                    630   830   830   693    725   758   756   758   756   758   756   756
Yams                        96    95    95   162   198   218   218   218   216   216   218   216
Sweet Potatoes             108   108   108   180   198   218   218   218   216   216   216   218
Ginger                      38    36    38   113   124   135   135   135   135   136   136   135
Turmeric                    11    11    11    47    64    64    64    54    64    64    64    64
Eddoes                      18    18    18    46    50    54    64    54    54    64    64    64
Vegetables (rainfed)        36    36    3S    45    60    50    So    S0    0    60    60    50
Intercrop                   11    11    11    20    23    26    27    27    27    27    27    27
Wallilabou
a`nanas                    876   876   876   675   743   778   810   810   810   810   810   810
Cocoa (existing)             5      6      5      6      7      9    11    11    11    il    11    11
Cocoa (now)                  0      0      0      0      1      2     4      5      7      8      9      9
Other Tree Crops             5      6      6      S      6      6     6      6      6      S      S      S
Yams                       252   252   262   252   405   495   540   640   640   640   540   540
Sweet Potatoes             216   218   218   216   360   396   432   432   432   432   432   432
Ginger                      38    38    38    38   180   218   234   234   234   234   234   234
Turmeric                    23    23    23    23    23    96   108   108   108   108   108   108
Eddoes                      72    72    72    72   135   149   182   162   182   162   162   162
Vegetables (rainfed)       380   360   380   360    460   496   496   495   495   495   495   495                           It - >
Intercrop                   29    29    29    29    49    54    59    86           6      8       5     S6                        z
__________________________  _____________-__________________________________________________ es  X
o  m



ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Development of Crop Output (Continued)
)--------------------------------------------------------__-----------------__----------------------------------
Without                                 With Project
Estate/Crops               Project  1990   1991   1992   1993   19 '94 1995  1996  1997  1998   1999  2000-2013
-    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -(tons) - - - - - - - - - - - - -
------------------------------------------------------------  -----------__--__----------------------------------
Richmond
Bananas                   4,500  4,500  4,500  4,500 4,500 4,950  5,175  5,400 5,400  5,400  5,400  6,400
Mangoes                       9      9      9      9      9      9      9      9      9      9      9      9
Other Tree Crop  (new)        0      0      0      0      a      0      0      0      9    18    54       64
Yams                         95     95    95      95     95   284   347    378    378   378   378   378
Sweet Potatoes              108    108    108    108    108    270   297    324    324   324   324    324
Ginger                       36     36     36     36     36    136   162    176    176    176   178   361
Turmeric                     11     11    11      11     11    95    108   108    108   108    108   108
Eddoes                       18     19    18      18     18    90    99    108    108   108   108    108
Vegetables (rainfed)        108    108    108    108    108    136   149    149    149   149   149    149
Intercrop                    11     11    11    11       11    32    36    40        43    43    43    a5
All Estates
Bananas                   8,773  6,773  6,773  6,932  7,080  7,643  7,902  8,127  8,127  8,127  8,127  8,127
Mangoes                       9      9      9      9      9      9      9      9      9      9      9      9
Cocoa (existing)              6      S      S      5      7      9     11    11    11    11    11    11
Cocoa (new)                   0      0      0      0      1      2      4      6      7      8      9      9
Other Tree Crops (existing)   5      S      S      5      S      5      S      6      5      S      6      6
Other Tree Crops (now)        0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      9     18    64    64
Yams                        473    473    473    549    747  1,049  1,157  1,188  1,134  1,134  1,134  1,134
Sweet Potato                488    468    488    649    716   938    999  1,026  1,026  1,026  1,026  1,026
Ginger                      108    108    108    203    362    513    631   645    645   546   545    645
Turmeric                     45     45    45      92    176   275    288   288    288   288   288    288
Eddoes                      144    144    144    180   252    347   389    378    378   378    378    378
Vegetables (Rainfed)        S22    522    522    536    632    704    718    718    718   718   718    718
Intercrop                    54     54     54     66     89    119   131    140    143   143   143    165
Tomatoes (Irrigated)          0      0     68     81    81    81    81    81    81    81    81    81
Peppers (Irrigated            0      0     41     54     64    64    64    64    54    54          64    64
Onions (Irrigated)            0      0     61     81     81    81    81    81    81    81    81    81
Carrots (Irrigated)           0      0     41     54     54    64    54       64    64    64    64    64
Other Vegetable (Irrigated)   0      0      0    105    135    136   136    135   135   13S    135   135
rD  
IQZ_
0



-57-
ANNEX 2
Table 5
Page 1 of 2
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Farmgate Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
Item                        Unit                   Price
Outputs:                                                   - - (EC$) - -
Bananas                        lb                    0.30
Sweet Potatoes                 lb                    0.36
Eddoes                         lb                    0.48
Ginger                         lb                    0.50
Yams                           lb                    0.50
Mangoes                        lb                    0.42
Turmeric                       lb                    1.00
Avocado                        lb                    0.46
Cocoa                          lb                    2.20
Carrots                        lb                    0.60
Peppers                        lb                    0.70
Tumaiaoes                      ' b                   O.So
Onions                         lb                    0.60
Other Tree Crops               lb                    0.47
Other Vegetables               lb                    0.57
Intercrops                     lb                    0.78
Inputs:
Banana Suckers               unit                    0.25
Ginger Plants                  lb                    0.55
Yam Plants                     lb                    0.75
Eddoe Plants                  bag                   50.00
Planting Material          plant                     0.10
Seeds                          lb                    1.20
Planting Material              lb                    2.75
Turmeric Plants            plant                     1.00
Mango Plants                plant                    0.50
Avocado Plants              plant                    3.00
Cocoa Nursery Seeds          unit                    0.95
Cocoa Seeds                  unit                    1.35
Carrot Seeds                   lb                   20.00
Onion Seeds                    lb                   45.00
Tomato Seeds                   oz                    4.00
Pepper Plants              plant                     0.10
Gramazone                      oz                    0.37
Furudan                        lb                    4.00
Basudin                        oz                    1.03
Sevin                          oz                    0.88
Primicid                       lt                   26.00



-58-
ANNEX 2
Table 5
Page 2 of 2
------------------------------------------------------------------------__
Item                         Unit                    Price
------------------------------------------------------------------__------
Inputs: (cont'd)
Gramaxone                    gall                     64.00
Round Up                        it                    60.00
Captan                          lb                    10.32
Tri-Miltox Forte                lb                    13.00
Diathane                        lb                    11.00
Kocide                          lb                     5.78
Tractor Hire                 acre                    250.00
Fertilizer                    sack                    38.00
Lime                            lb                     0.35
Rat Cakes                   cakes                      0.50
Diothene                      roll                   100.00
Twine                         roll                    40.00
Cartons                      unit                      0.05
Poly Bags                     bag                      0.08
Pumps                        unit                10,000.00
Labor: a/
:s 1.                          dav                    15.00
Female                         day                    10.00
----The---economic---prices---are---75---of--t-e--figures---shown--_here.-
a/ The economic prices are 752 of the figures shown here.



ST. VINCENT AND THE IRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Farm Labor Raou resents
Without                                           With Project
CrOPS           Project       1          2          3         4          5         6           7         8          9       10 - 2S
------------------------------------------------------------------------__---__-------------------------------------------------
 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  (Workdays/Acre)           -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  _
Bananas              79       79         82         84        84         84        84          84        84         84         84
Mangoes (ex)         15       1S         15         1S        15         1s        15          15        16         15         15
Cocoa (ex)           20       24         28         28        28         28        28          28        28         28         28
Cocoa (new)           0       39         20         25        20         24        30          34        3S         36         37
Other Tree
Crops (ex)         15       1S         15        15         1S         iS        16          1S        1S         15         15
Other Tree
Crops (new)         0       71         20        20         23        28         30         33         33         33         33
Yams                127      113        118        123       123        123       123         123       123        123        123
Sweet Potatoes       79       85         89         92        92         9'2       92          92        92         92         92
Ginger               98      110        122        130       130        150       130         130       130        130        130
Turmeric            180      144        144        144       144        144       144         144       144        144        144
Eddoes               80       88         89         91        91         91        91          91        91         91         91
VOg. (rainfed)      106      107        107        108       108       1is8       108         108       108        104        104
Intercrop            20       22         24         24        24         .:4       24          24        24         24         24
Tomatoes (Irrig)      0      146        158        158       158         ;6       166         16S       158        158      1,220
Peppers               0      127        137        137       137        1.17      137         137       137        137        137
Onions                0      146        146        146       146        1'i16     146         146       146        148        148
Carrots               0      148        158        1S8       15S        I1S       158         156       158        166        158
Other Veg.(irr)       0      136        141        141       141        1'I1      141         141       141        141        141
Total      10,888   10.88e   1T.888    10.666    10.886    140:!4   16.161           16,797    15,842    16,8e8       165972
-----------------------------------------------------------------------..----__---------------------------------------------------
ro X
aC 3



ST. VINCENT AND THE CRENADINES
ACRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Input Costs
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__----------------------------__-------------------
Without                                        With Project
Crops          Project      1         2         3         4         S _       a          7         8         9       10 - 25
------------------------------------------------------------------------__---__-------------------------------------------------
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - (ECS/acre) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Bananas         1,280     1,445     1,620     1,690     1,840     1,840    1,840       1,840     1,840    1,640       1,640
Mangoes (ex)        0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0          0
Cocoa (ox)        180       350       400       430       430       430       430        430       430       430        430
Cocoa (new)         0       878       265       265       380       335       305        305       305       305        305
Other Tree                                                                                                   -
Crops (ex)        0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0          a
Other Tree
Crops (new)       0       346       170       226       270       310       300        300       300       300        300
Yams              900     1,600     1,740     1,780     1,780     1,730     1,780      1,780    1,780    1,780        1,303
Sweet Potatoes     S0       260       298       338       336       336       336        338       336       336        336
Ginger            630       740       940     1,010     1,010     1,010     1,010      1,010     1,010     1,010      1,010
Turmeric        1,190     1,670     1,800     1,800     1,800     1,830     1,800      1,800    1,800    1,800        1,800
Eddoes            400       540       680       760       780       730       760        780       780       780        780
Veg. (rainfed)   1,830    2,030     2,220    2,290      2,290    2,230      2,290      2,290    2,290    2,290        2,290
Intercrop         100       100       100       100       100       110       100        100       100       100        229
Tomatoes (irr)      0     1,085     1,220     1,220     1,220     1,220     1,220      1,220    1,220    1,220        1,220
Peppers             0     1,880     1,760    1,760      1,780     1,730     1,760      1,780    1,780    1,760        1,760
Onions              0     1,800     1,735     1,735     1,735     1,735     1,735      1,735    1,735    1,735        1,735
Carrots             0     1,356     1,:85     1,385     1,385     1,335     1,385      1,385    1,385    1,385        1,385
Other Veg.(irr)     0     1,460     1,S20     1S20      1S20      1         1,6210     1 620    1,S20    1.S20        1620
Total      10,666    10.686    10,666    10,666   10,666    14,024    15,061      15,797    15,842   15,868      15.972
----- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- -----.---   ------------------------- ----



ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION ANID REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annual Income and Operating Expenses for Model 1
Without                                        With Ilroject
Item           Prolect      1         2         3        4         6         8          7         8        9       10 - 25
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - (E13) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Crop Income
Tomatoes            0        0      3,021     3,626    3,826    3,026    3,825        3,626    3,825    3,825    3,625
Poppema             0        0      1,690    2,120    2,120    2,:.20    2,120        2,120    2,120    2,120    2,120
Onions              0        0      2,043    2,724      2,724    2,'r24    2,724      2,724    2,724    2,724    2,724
Carrots             0        0      1,382     1,816     1,818    1,818     1,816      1,818     1,816    1,816     1,816
Other Vegetables    0        0          0     5,127    8.6156    815s    6.815          ffl1    f,ffl     8,165    6.185
Subtotal      0        0      8,015   16,410   l8,999   16,199   18,899    16,899   18,899   16,899   16.899
Costs
Tomatoes            0        0        407       458      458       458       468        458       468       468      468
Peppers             0        0        630      8f0        880      680       800        660       660      ffB0     8S80
Onions              0        0        800       661      661       061       661        861       661      eS8       861
Carrots             0        0        508       519       519      619       519        519       519       519      519
Other Vegetables    0        0          0     1,140     1,140    1,:.40    1,140      1,140    1,140    1,140    1,140
Land Rent           0        0          0       450       900    1,:26    1.275       1.500     1.500    1,500     1.600
Subtotal       0        0      2,145     3,878    4,328    4,l63    4,703        4,928    4,928    4,928    4,928
Return to Family:
T'tal               0        0      6,870    11,532   12,571    12,346   12,196      11,971   11,971   11,971   11,971
Per Workday         0        0         27        34        38       37        37         38        36       36        3f
-----------------------------------------------------------------------.-----__-------------------------------------------------
F3>
0 tT
coo 



ST. VINCENT AND THE CRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annual Income and Operating Enpenses for Model 2
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-..---__--------------------------------------------------
Without                                        With Pr-oject
Item           Projoct      1         2         3         4        5         a          7         8        9       10 - 25
_ -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - -_  - - -  (M - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Crop Income
Bananas        10,002   10,002     10,002    10,002    10,002    10,W32   10,002    10,002   10,002   10,002   10,002
Yaws              643      643        543       898       853      930       930        930       930      930       930
Sweet Potatoes    448      448        448       658       814      8"'0      870        870       870      670       670
Ginger              0        0          0       310       388      40S6      485        485       465      465       465
Turmeric            0        0          0       388       643      8:20      820        620       820      820       620
Eddoes            595      595        595       744       819      893       893        893       893      893       893
Vegetables (rnfd)  353     363        353       441       485      413S      485        486       485      485       485
Intercrop          98       96        9s        161       179      137      215        215       215      216       215
Subtotal   12,0a3   12,038     12,038    14,303    15,383   18,2454   16,282     18,282    18,282   16,282    18,282
Costs                                                                                                                                    al
Bananas         4,234    4,234      4,234     4,780    6,028    6,2159    5,425       5,425    5,425    5,425      5,425
Yams              138    18          138       248       268      2432      282        282       282      282       282
Sweet Potatoes      8        8          8        40        46       152       52         52        52       52        52
Ginger              0        0          0        57        72        78       78         78        78       78        78
Turmeric            0        0          0       121       138       138      138        138       138      138       138
Eddoes             82       62         62        83       10S      117       117        117       117       117      117
Vegetables (rnfd)  141     141        141       15s       171       176      178        176       176      178       176
Intercrop          1S       1S         1S        23        23       23        23         23        23       23        23
Land Rent           0        0          0         0       450      900    1.125       1,276    1.500      1.500    1.500
Subtotal     4,598    4,598      4,598     4,598     8,300     7,005    7,395      7,545     7,770    7,770    7,770
Return to Family:
Total           7,438    7,438      7,438     7,438     9,083     9,259    8,887      8,737     8,512     8,512    8,512
Per Workday        23       23         23        26        25        25       24         24        23       23        23             >
- X



ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annual Income and Operating Expenses for Model 3
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-------------------------------------------------
Without                                        With Project
Item           Project      1         2        3         4         b         6          7         8        9       10 - 26
Crop Income                 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - (ECU)  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Bananas         4,704   4,704       4,704    5,174    6,410    6,645    5,846         5,846    5,845    5,845    5,645
Yams            1,176   1,176       1,176    2,016    2,484    2,688    2,688         2,888    2,688    2,888    2,s88
Sweet Potatoes    967      967        987     1,812     1,773    1,934    1,934       1,934    1,934    1,934    1,934
Ginger            448      448        448    1,400      1,540    1,880     1,680      1,880    1,680    1,680    1,880
Turmeric          280      280        280    1,176      1,344    1,344    1,344       1,344    1,344    1,344    1,344
Eddoes            215      215        215       638      591       645       845        645       645      645       645
Vegetables (rnfd)  510     510        S10       838      701       701       701        701       701       701      701
Intercrop         207      207        207       388      431       474      s5s         518       518      518       518
Subtotal   8,507   8,507       8,507    12,942   14,255    15,112   15,122    15,122   15,122   15,122   15,122                  C3
Costs
Bananas         1,991   1,991       1,991    2,248    2,384      2,473    2,551       2,561    2,551    2,651    2,551
Yams              300      300        300       711      593       593       593        593       593      593       593
Sweet Potatoes     17       17         17       118      149       149       149        149       149      149       149
Ginger             70       70         70       206      167       le       168        168       188       188        0
Turmeric           68       66         66       282      300       300       300        300       300      300       300
Eddoes             22       22         22       60        78        84        84         84        84       84        84
Vegetables (rnfd)  203     203        203       226      247       254       254        254       254      254       264
Intercrop          33       33         33        se       58        se        se         se        56       S6        56
Land Rent           0        0          0        0       450       900     1.125      1.27S    1.500    1.600    1,500
Subtotal    2,703   2,703      2,703    3,883    4,392      4,979    5,282       5,342    6,657    5,657    5,657
Return to Family:
Total          5,804   5,804    5,804        9,069    9,883    10,133    9,840       9,690    9,465    9,466    9,634
Per Workday       25       26         25        30        31       32        31         30        29       29        29
-- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- - --_- -_-     - -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - ---         oD  X



ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annual Income and Operating Expenses for Model 4
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__-------------------------------------------------
Without                                        With Project
Item           PrELOct      1         2         3         4         5         8          7         8         9       10 - 25
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  (EC) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Crop Income
Bananas         2,268   2,268       2,268     2,268     2,496     2,608     2,722      2,722    2,722    2,722    2,722
Cocoa (ox)        131      181        131       131       174       218       281        261       281       281       281
Cocoa (now)         0        0          0         0        22        44        87        131       174       198       218
Other Tree
Crops (ex)       23       23         23        23        23        23        23         23        23        23        23
Yams            1,411    1,411      1,411     1,411     2,268     2,772     3,024      3,024    3,024    3,024    3,024
Sweet Potatoes    870      870        870       870     1,451     1 596     12741      1 741     12741     1.741     1;741
Ginger            202      202        202       202     1,e00       870       943        943       943       943       943
Turmeric          262      262        262       252     1,068       605       605        805       f06       805       605
Eddoes            387      387        387       387       726     1,683     1,814      1,814    1,814      1,814     1,814
Vog. (rainfed)   2,296   2,296      2,296    2,295      2,889     2,881     2,861      2,681    2,661    2,661    2,681
Intercrop         248      248        248       248       419       344       379        413       413       413       413
Subtotal   8,088    8,088      8,088    8,088    12,513    13,404    14,206      14,338   14,381    14,403    14,425
Costs
Bananas           960      980        960       980     1,084     1,140     1,193      1,230    1,230    1,230    1,230
Cocoa (ex)         38       36         36        36        70        80        se         38        88        88       s8
Cocoa (now)         0        0          0         0        87        27        27         36        31        31        31
Other Tree
Crops (ex)        0        0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Yams              38o      3S6        380       360      80        870       890        890       890       890       890
Sweet Potatoes     1s       1S         1S        1s       104       119       134        134       134       134       134
Ginger             32       32         32        32       148       1ss       202        202       202       202       202
Turmeric           60       60         80        80       238       270       270        270       270       270       270
Eddoes             40       40         40        40        81       102       114        114       114       114       114
Vogetabe.s (rnfd)  916     916        915       915     1,015     1,110     1,145      1,145     1,;45    1,145    1,145
In.ercrop          40       40         40        40        60        60        60         66        60        80       80
Lard Rent           0        0          0         0         0       460       900      1.125     1.275     15S00    1.500
Subtrtal     2,457   2,457       2,457     2,46/    3,884      4,418     5,020      5,292    6,437      5,882     5,882
Return to Family:
Total            5,631    5,631     5,631     5,631     8,828     8,898     9,188      9,046    8,944    8,741       9,163
Per Workday        26       28         28        26        31        30        32         31        30        30        31
o-z 
fD X
N



ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Arnual Income and Operating Expenses for Model S
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------__--------------------------------------------------
Without                                         With Project
Item           Proiect      1         2          3         4         5         8          7         8         9       10 - 26
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - (EC) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
Crop Income
Bananas          9,305     9,305     9,305     9,305     9,305    10,235    19,700     11,166    11,186    11,166     11,166
Mangoes (existing)  26       28        28         26       26         26        28         26        26        26         26
Other Tree
Crops (new)       0         0         0         0          0         0         0          0        26        52        156
Yams               326      328       326        326       326       977     1,194      1,303     1,303     1,303      1,303
Sweet Potatoes    2f8        2e8      288        268       288       670       737        804       804       804        804
Ginger             124       124       124       124       124       465       558        605       605       6SO        605
Turmeric           78         78        78        79        78       651       744        744       744       744        744
Eddoes             60        80        80         60        SO       298       327        357       357       357        357
Veg. (rainfed)     424      424        424       424       424       530       583        S83       583       583        583
Intercrop          57 57               57         57        57       172       191        210       229       229        229
U,
Subtotal     10,688    10,686   10,668   10,668    10,688      14,024    1s,061     15,797    15,842   15,e88      15,972
Costs
Bananas          3,938     3,938     3,938     3,938     3,938     4,446     4,677      4,892     5,046    5,046       6,046
Mangoes (ex)        0          0        0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0          0
Other Tree
Crops (new)       0         0         0         0          X        42        21         28        33        37         37
Yams                83       83         83        83       3b 45               375        383       383       383        383
Sweet Potatoes       5         S         5         5         5        48        55         62        62        82         62
Ginger              19        19        19        19        19       6s         87         93        93        93         93
Turmeric            18       18         18        18        18       145       168        18e       16S       168        168
Eddoes              6         6         6         6          6        33        42         47        47        47         47
"egetables (rnfd)  169       169       169       169       169       187       205        211       211       211        211
Intercrop           9         9         9          9         9        26        25         25        25        25
Land Rent           0         0         0          0         0         0       450        900     1,12S     1.275      1.S00
Subtotal      4,248    4,248      4,248     4,248    4,248      5,340    6,102       6,808     7,192     7,346      7,571
Return to Family:
Total           8,418    6,418      6,418      6,418     6,418     8,684     8,9s9      8,989     8,650    8,522       8,401
Per Workday         23        23        23        23        23        28        28         26        25        2S         24
t3 B



ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL DIVERSIFICATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Cost and Benefits Streams
----------------------------------------------______--------__---------------__------------------------------------------------------
1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1996  1990   1997  1998 1999  2000  2001  2002  2003-2013
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   ('000 EC*) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Without Project
Production Cost       4,070  4,070  4,070 4,070 4,070 4,070  4,070 4,070 4,070 4,070 4,070 4,070 4,070 4,070 4,070
Benefit               8,830  8,630  6,630 6,630 6,630 6,830 6,830 6,630 6,630 6,630 6,630 6,630 6,630 6,630 6,630
With Project
Cost
Investment            560   1,6e0  2,870  1,555  1,085  1,016   925       -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -         F
Production A Road
Maintenance         4.070  4.070  4,246 4,565 4.980 5.685  5.835  9.926 5.980 S.980 S.980  S.980 5.980 5.980 5.980
Subtotal         4,630  5,630  7,115 6,120 6,085 6,700 6,760  5,925  5,980 5,980 5,980  5,980 5,980 5,980 5,980
Benefits             6,630  6,630  6,960  7,795  8,930 10,330 10,845 11,100 11,120 11,140 11,175 11,176 11,175 11,176 11,175
Incremental
Cost                    560  1,560  3,045  2,050  1,995  2,630  2,690  1,855  1,910  1,910  1,910 1,910 1,910  1,910  1,910
Benefit                   0       0    320  1,1e6 2,300 3,700 4,215  4,470 4,490 4,510 4,545  4,545  4,545 4,545 4,545
Net Benefit Stream       (580) (1,560) (2,725)  (885)   305  1,070  1,525  2,615  2,580 2,600 2,635  2,635  2,635  2,636 2,635
IRR = 23X
cr z
Li>



-67-
Annex 3
ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Date Available in the ProAect File
A. Reports Relating to the Project
A-1.     FAO/CP.  Agricultural Rehabilitation and Diversification
Preparation Report. November 18, 1987 (2 Vols.)
A-2.     FAO/CP.  Agricultural Sector Project: Project Brief and Annexes.
July 1, 1987.
A-3.     OAS.  St. Vincent and the Grenadines: Agricultural Sector Study (A
Policy Perspective). October 1987.
A-4.     OAS.  St. Vincent and the Grenadines: Agricultural Sector Study
(Policies and Programmes). June 1985.
A-5.     CIDA.  Review of Agricultural Diversification in the O.E.C.S.
(2 Vols.). January 1987.
A-6.     Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development.  Orange Hill
Preparation Study (Final Report), prepared by Hunting Technical
Services Ltd. May 1987.
B. Working Documents
B-1.     Report on Road Component.
B-2.     Agricultural Development in the Project Area.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20597
_  _   _   _ _ _ _ _   _  . _ . _ _ _ _ _ . 4                                                     6 ' ' ':                                                           ' 3 ' Z '
ST. VINCENT
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION AND
&M^&  .s.esc          -                           DIVERSIFICATION  PROJECT
R A   ~~~~~Y~~~            I Z  I~~~~ L A .' 
(o3O0A C C:lZ  
-. _U*hiiN.zA
\        Ne. Sad  Bo
Pdstlng Al.   I                  LOs
.,     E.1sting Als                                                                              O.odV.og                                                                                13-220C
xlisting Researdh Plots and Propogatlion                                                                 ,eoad Viliage
Moin RoodsT r
Secondary Roads
Mom Ctems                                                                                                                             0ogan  H.l1
0      To.ns                                                                                                       i 'aterina
- - -    Parish Baundaries                                                 Rcm
Rivers                                                        )   R.chn%wd
-*-    Internatlonal boundaries
CH ATEA UBELAIR                                        i                           CriCpsnan
Cararal Village
Trno~inaa   )Sharps  S                                                                                      GEORGETOWN
WCoullS                                                    N                         Mi. Persereronce
t _Il,I        asehali
mCJmberlond    , 9                                                                            $se o -1.g
tCaco   Sring   Yllage              _-'         ."rcB                                                 =
_.11                                          Woldb                      9         )+                                                                                                              ,
3tS                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-
Keolons       Bie.llel                   He-mtloge       .                           t    E Three RiersJ
BARROUALLIE 
''S    T              N,__                              \,
W ~~~~ - - - /# ~~~~~~~~~~Greiggsg                                          sonsn
Cedars
iLAYOU                                          T ' ' 9 __9
AN  D  R  E  W  ,''   
10,                                                 rbar~~~~~-R,nls  Paik
Vlley       Choacey                       S   T                          M> esoporo-na c     Sprng
Camden Pcr&    G    E          R                         -                   Per G    EOVole
- Rtortc Gardens
-'3v-c                                                                Lo/or.n        Redempari                        E34 -c
Goran
C a\     fe       FFinspecs
2                   4             6              8
*               ~     ~     ~     ~~2  3  4         5
,Sae r, n,. roe Ornde Or 'e 0000010*00  c,, r 0.
So - en" or 74000000000a   00a.0Sor 600 C IwOrSn enr    rm a rc
S. 2E                                                            e"'5                                                            e 6 5                                                           e E24
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~il 40



