Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1980 STV
                 (Agricultural Rehabilitation and
                     Diversification Project)
                              between
                 SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 28, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1980 STV
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April  28,  1989,  between SAINT VINCENT AND
THE  GRENADINES  (the   Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has  also  requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and  Development  (the  Bank)  to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing  of  the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith  between the Borrower and the Bank
(the  Loan  Agreement),  the  Bank  is  agreeing  to  provide such
assistance in  an  aggregate  principal  amount  equivalent to one
million, four hundred thousand dollars ($1,400,000) (the Loan);
     (C)  the Borrower and the  Association  intend, to the extent
Page  2
practicable, that the proceeds of  the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on  account  of  expenditures in respect of
the Project  before  disbursements  of  the  proceeds  of the Loan
provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Wherever  used  in  this  Agreement, unless the
context otherwise  requires,  the  several  terms  defined  in the
General Conditions and in the  Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Loan Agreement" means the  agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and  the  Bank  for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the  "General  Conditions   Applicable   to   Loan  and  Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all  schedules  and  agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement;
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Project  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
     (d)  "NCB" means the National  Commercial Bank, a bank wholly
owned by  the  Borrower,  and  established  by  the Companies Act,
Chapter 219 of the Laws of St. Vincent, on June 1, 1977;
     (e)  "MTIA"  means  the  Borrower's  ministry  in  charge  of
agriculture;
     (f)  "MCW" means  the  Borrower's  Ministry of Communications
and Works;
     (g)  "MFP"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Finance and
Planning;
     (h)  "Estates" means the seven  estates  known as Cane Grove,
Sans Souci, Colonarie, Grand  Sable,  Langley Park, Wallilabou and
Richmond which are owned and  run  by  the  Borrower and are to be
divested under the  Project  and  "Estate"  means  any  one of the
Estates;
     (i)  "Project  Area"  means  an  area  of  about  4,690 acres
comprising of the Estates;
     (j)  "Project  Management  Unit"   means   the   unit  to  be
established pursuant to Section  3.04  (a)(i) of this Agreement to
administer and coordinate the Project;
     (k)  "Land Settlement Committee"  means  the  committee to be
established pursuant to Section 3.04 (a)(ii) of this Agreement to,
inter alia, advise the Project Management Unit;
     (l)  "Project Director" means  the  person  to be employed by
the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.04(a) of this Agreement to head
Page  3
the Project Management Unit;
     (m)  "Project  Beneficiary"  means  a  person  who  has  been
selected according to the Selection  Criteria and Procedures to be
granted land under Part A.2 of the Project;
     (n)  "Selection Criteria and  Procedures"  means the criteria
and procedures referred to in Section 3.08(a) of this Agreement;
     (o)  "Fiscal Year"  means  the  fiscal  year  of the Borrower
which begins on July 1 of each calendar year; and
     (p)  "East Caribbean Dollars" and  "EC$" mean the currency of
the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to one  million,  one  hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 1,100,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to  this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made  in  respect  of  the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)   The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in NCB on terms and
conditions satisfactory  to  the  Association.  Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1996 or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
Page  4
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  February 1 and August 1
commencing February  1,  1999  and  ending  August  1,  2023. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on August 1,
2008 shall be 1.25% of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be 2.5% of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. The Director General of Finance and Planning in
the Ministry of Finance and Planning of the Borrower is designated
as representative  of  the  Borrower  for  purposes  of taking any
action required or permitted to  be  taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02  of  this  Agreement  and  Article  V  of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MFP, MTIA  and  MCW  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and in
conformity    with    appropriate    administrative,    financial,
agricultural  and  environmental  practices,  and  shall  provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
Page  5
     (a)  establish and maintain for  the  duration of the Project
in NCB a Project Account  in  East  Caribbean Dollars on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association;
     (b)  make payments out of the Project Account exclusively for
expenditures required for the Project;
     (c)  deposit into the Project Account:
          (i)   an initial deposit of EC$200,000;
         (ii)   at monthly intervals beginning the month following
                the  establishment  of  the  Project  Account,  an
                amount equal  to  the  aggregate  of payments made
                during the previous  month  for expenditures under
                the Project not financed from the Credit; and
        (iii)   any additional  amounts  necessary  to  maintain a
                minimum balance in  such  account of EC$200,000 or
                other amount acceptable to the Association.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall,  for  the purposes of the
Project:
     (a)  establish and thereafter  maintain  for  the duration of
the Project in a form  satisfactory to the Association, including,
without limitation,  personnel  having  qualifications, experience
and terms of  reference  satisfactory  to  the Association and the
functions set forth in Paragraphs  A  and  B of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement:
          (i)  a unit (the Project  Management  Unit) in MFP which
               shall administer and coordinate the Project; and
         (ii)  a committee (the  Land  Settlement Committee) which
               shall advise  the  Project  Management  Unit on the
               selection of Project  Beneficiaries and ensure that
               the Selection Criteria  and Procedures are followed
               in the said selection; and
     (b)  employ   a   director   (the   Project   Director)  with
qualifications and experience  and  under  terms  of reference all
satisfactory to the Association, who shall head the said Unit.
     Section  3.05.  Without  limititation  to  the  provisions of
Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement,  the  Borrower  shall provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for purposes of Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
     Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, not
later than June  30  in  each  year,  exchange  views  on: (i) the
progress achieved  in  carrying  out  the  Project,  and  (ii) the
Project work program for the following year.
     (b)  Without limitation to its obligations under Section 9.06
of the  General  Conditions,  the  Borrower  shall,  no later than
May 31 in each Fiscal Year, beginning May 31, 1990, furnish to the
Association for its review  and  comments  a report in such detail
and of such scope as the Association shall request, including:
          (i)  an evaluation of progress  achieved by MTIA and MCW
               in carrying  out  the  Project  during  such Fiscal
               Year;
         (ii)  a  report  on   the   performance  of  the  Project
               Management Unit during such Fiscal Year; and
        (iii)  a draft Project work  program  to be carried out by
               MTIA and  MCW  during  the  following  Fiscal Year,
               including:
               (A)  a statement of  objectives  to be achieved and
Page  6
                    of activities to be undertaken;
               (B)  detailed investment and operating budgets;
               (C)  detailed   staffing,    training   and   other
                    technical assistance plans;
               (D)  a  financing  plan  indicating  the  source of
                    funds for each activity or plan; and
               (E)  a  procurement  program  detailing  goods  and
                    services to be procured.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  through  MTIA,  no  later  than  June  30,  1989, employ
consultants  under  terms   and   conditions   acceptable  to  the
Association  to  assist  the  Borrower  in  the  implementation of
Part A.1 of the Project; and
     (b)  through MCW,  no  later  than  June  30,  1990, employ a
consultant  under   terms   and   conditions   acceptable  to  the
Association to  supervise  the  implementation  of  Part  B of the
Project.
     Section 3.08. The Borrower  shall  for  purposes of Part A of
the Project:
     (a)  through the  Land  Settlement  Committee,  no later than
June 30, 1989, prepare and furnish to the Association criteria and
procedures, satisfactory to the Association, to be followed in the
implementation of the said  Part  of  the  Project and ensure that
such  criteria   and   procedures   are   followed   in  the  said
implementation;
     (b)  through MTIA, carry out the demarcation of plots and the
determination of the sizes  thereof  taking into due consideration
the suitability  of  land  in  the  Project  Area  for sustainable
cultivation;
     (c)  through the  Project  Management  Unit,  deliver to each
Project  Beneficiary  a  leasehold  title  subject  to  terms  and
conditions acceptable to the  Association including, inter alia, a
term of twenty years with  an  option  to purchase after the first
ten years;
     (d)  through  MFP,  set   land   rental  charges  to  Project
Beneficiaries  at  levels   acceptable   to  the  Association  and
sufficient to recover over a period of twenty years at least sixty
percent  (or  such  other  percentage  as  may  be  agreed  by the
Association) of: (A)  the  costs  of  investment and equipment and
vehicles financed in whole  or  in  part  from the proceeds of the
Credit; (B) the maintenance costs  of such equipment and vehicles;
and (C) the costs of administration of the Project; and
     (e)  through MFP, adjust such  land rental charges to achieve
such cost recovery on  at  least  an  annual basis and review such
charges with  the  Association  prior  to  making  any adjustments
thereto.
     Section  3.09.  The  Borrower  shall,  through  MTIA, provide
extension services satisfactory to  the Association to the Project
Beneficiaries,  such  services  to  include  at  least  eight  (8)
agricultural extension staff.
     Section 3.10. The Borrower,  through  MCW, shall provide road
construction services for the development and maintenance of roads
in the Project Area.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
Page  7
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, separate records  and  accounts, including the Project
Account and the Special Account, adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of the execution of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal Year,
               beginning with  the  Fiscal  Year  ending  June 30,
               1989,  audited,  in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year,  (a) certified copies of the
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (b) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the Fiscal Year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such Fiscal  Year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.O1.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional  conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  this Agreement
within the meaning of Section l2.Ol (b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that:
     (a)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been  fulfilled,  other  than those related to
the effectiveness of this Agreement;
     (b)  the Project  Management  Unit  and  the  Land Settlement
Committee have both  been  established  in compliance with Section
Page  8
3.04 of this Agreement and the  staff referred to in Paragraph A.1
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been employed and the members
referred to  in  Paragraph  B.1  of  the  said  Schedule have been
appointed; and
     (c)  the Project Account referred to  in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement has been established and the initial deposit referred to
therein has been made.
     Section 5.O3. The date July  28, 1989 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.O4. The obligations  of the Borrower under Articles
III and IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development  Credit  Agreement  shall terminate or on
the date twenty years after  the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Ministry  of  Finance  and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Planning
          Kingstown
          St. Vincent and the Grenadines
                                              Telex:
                                                 7531 FOREIGN V.Q.
                                              Fascimile No:
                                               809-45-72152 (SVG)
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
                                              Facsimile No. :
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
                          By /s/ James Pompey
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  9
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of  the  Credit  and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage  of  expenditures  for  items so to be
financed in each Category:
                                        Amount of
                       Amount of        the Loan
                      the Credit        Allocated
                       Allocated       (Expressed            % of
                     (Expressed in     in Dollars        Expenditures
     Category       SDR Equivalent)    Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Vehicles and         472,000        $300,000       100%
     Road Equip-
     ment required
     for Parts A
     and B of
     the Project
(2)  Office equip-        392,000        $500,000       100% of
     ment and                                           foreign
     supplies;                                          expenditures
     Road con-                                          and 50% of
     struction                                          local expen-
     materials                                          ditures
     and extension
     demonstration
     materials
(3)  Consultants'         157,000        $300,000       100%
     services,
     including
     Services of
     Project
     Director
                                        Amount of
                       Amount of        the Loan
                      the Credit        Allocated
                       Allocated       (Expressed            % of
                     (Expressed in     in Dollars        Expenditures
     Category       SDR Equivalent)    Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4)  Training              79,000        $300,000       100%
     under Part C
     of the
     Project
     TOTAL              1,100,000      $1,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
Page  10
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of  the  Borrower;  provided,  however,  that if the
currency of the Borrower is also  that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in
such currency for such  goods  or  services  shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives  of  the  Project  are  to  promote growth and
diversification  of  the  Borrower's  agricultural  production and
exports, improve income  distribution,  and promote more efficient
use  of  underutilized  and  idle  scarce  land  resources through
divestiture  of  certain  state  lands,  rehabilitation  of  roads
serving such lands, and strengthening of MTIA.
     The Project shall  be  carried  out  in  the Project Area and
consists of the  following  parts,  subject  to such modifications
thereof as the Borower  and  the  Association  may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Divestiture of State Land
1.   Surveying, mapping, and demarcation of plots
2.   Selection   of,   and   allocation   of   land   to,  Project
Beneficiaries and preparation and  delivery of leasehold titles to
Project Beneficiaries.
3.   Acquisition and utilization of  survey equipment and vehicles
and office  equipment  and  supplies  required  to  carry  out the
foregoing.
4.   Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of the
foregoing.
Part B:   Construction, Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Roads
1.   Construction   and   rehabilitation   of   roads,   including
reduction  of  slopes,  construction  of  masonry  check  dams and
installation of fords.
2.   Maintenance of roads.
3.   Acquisition  and  utilization   of  equipment  and  materials
required to carry out the foregoing.
4.   Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of the
foregoing.
Part C:   Strengthening of MTIA
1.   Strengthening  of   MTIA's   extension   services   and  land
administration capability through training of MTIA staff.
2.   Acquisition  and   utilization   of  extension  demonstration
materials.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  11
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods, equipment and  vehicles  required  for  Parts  A and B
of the  Project  shall  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded in
accordance with  procedures  consistent  with  those  set forth in
Sections I and II  of  the  "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits"  published  by  the  Bank  in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Office equipment and  supplies  required  for  Part  A of the
Project and materials for  Parts  B  and  C  of the Project may be
procured under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract items procured under Part
A hereof, the  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  2  and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for such
contract  are  to  be  made  out  of  the  Special  Account,  such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to  said  paragraph  2  (d)  shall  be  furnished  to the
Association prior to the making  of  the  first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)   The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall  employ    consultants  whose qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
A.   The Project Management Unit
1.   Staff
     The Project Management Unit  shall  be composed of a director
Page  12
(the Project Director) assisted by a minimum of 2 support staff.
2.   Functions
     The Project Management  Unit  shall administer and coordinate
with MTIA  and  MCW  the  implementation  of  the  Project  and in
particular and without limitation to the foregoing shall:
     (a)  carry out  the  selection  of  Project  Beneficiaries in
accordance with the Selection Criteria;
     (b)  prepare  and   deliver   leasehold   titles  to  Project
Beneficiaries;
     (c)  coordinate  preparation  of   the  Project  annual  work
programs referred to in  Section  3.06 (b)(iii) of this Agreement,
and ensure timely corrective  action  to  deal with any deviations
from such programs;
     (d)  coordinate preparation of the  annual progress and audit
reports referred to  in  Sections  3.06  (b)(i)  and  4.01 of this
Agreement and of project completion  reports for submission to the
Association in compliance  with  Section  9.06  (c) of the General
Conditions; and
     (e)  identify implementation problems,  if  any,  and take or
cause to be taken appropriate  measures  to resolve or reduce such
problems.
B.   The Land Settlement Committee
1.   Members
     The Land Settlement Committee  shall  be composed of: (i) the
Director of Planning in the  Office  of  the Prime Minister of the
Borrower;  (ii)  the  Permanent   Secretary  in  MTIA;  (iii)  the
Borrower's Chief Agricultural  Officer;  (iv)  the Chief Surveyor;
and (v) three other persons  from the private sector including one
from the  farming  community,  all  appointed  by  the Minister of
Finance and Planning, one of  whom  shall  be chairman of the Land
Settlement Committee.
2.   Functions
     The  Land  Settlement  Committee  shall  advise  the  Project
Management Unit on  the  selection  of Project Beneficiaries, and,
without  limitation  to  the  foregoing,  shall  ensure  that  the
Selection Criteria and Procedures are applied equitably and fairly
in the said selection.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $200,000 to be  withdrawn from the Credit Account or
Loan Account and deposited  into  the  Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
Page  13
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit  Account  or  Loan Account and deposit in
the Special Account such amount  or  amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the  Credit  Account or Loan Account
                and deposit into  the  Special Account such amount
                as the Borrower shall  have requested and as shall
                have  been  shown  by  said  documents  and  other
                evidence to  have  been  made  out  of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account  or  Loan  Account  under  the  respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02  of  the  Development Credit
Agreement and  Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions applicable
thereto or from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph (a) of  Section  of  2.02  of  the Loan Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions applicable thereto;
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit or the
Loan allocated to the eligible  Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered  into by the Association or
the Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  respective General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of $400,000, twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the  Credit  Account  and  the Loan
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn  amount of the Credit and the
Loan  allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories  shall  follow such
procedures as  the  Association  shall  specify  by  notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals  shall  be made only after and
Page  14
to the extent that the  Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such notice  will  be  utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association:  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as the
Association may request; or  (B)  deposit into the Special Account
or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association
or the Bank an amount equal  to  the amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so  eligible  or  justified.    Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank all  or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association or  the Bank made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and  (c)  of this Schedule shall be credited
to the Credit Account  or  Loan  Account  as  the  case may be for
subsequent withdrawal or for  cancellation  in accordance with the
relevant  provisions of  the  Development  Credit Agreement or the
Loan Agreement, including the relevant General Conditions.
