Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3016 STV
                 (Agricultural Rehabilitation and
                     Diversification Project)
                              between
                 SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated April 28, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3016 STV
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April  28,  1989,  between SAINT VINCENT AND
THE  GRENADINES  (the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development  Credit  Agreement  between  the  Borrower and the
International Development  Association  (the  Association) of even
date herewith (the  Development  Credit  Agreement), has requested
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  the  Borrower  has  also  requested  the  Association to
provide additional financial  assistance  toward  the financing of
the  Project  and   by   the   Development  Credit  Agreement  the
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to  one  million, one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,100,000) (the Credit); and
     (C)  the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practic-
Page  2
able, that the proceeds of  the  Credit be disbursed on account of
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for in this Agreement are made; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted (the General Conditions),
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Wherever  used  in  this  Agreement, unless the
context otherwise  requires,  the  several  terms  defined  in the
Preamble  to  this  Agreement,  the  General  Conditions  and  the
Development Credit Agreement have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  term  "Development  Credit Agreement" means the
agreement of  even  date  herewith  between  the  Borrower and the
Association for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from
time to  time,  and  such  term  includes  the "General Conditions
Applicable to Development  Credit  Agreements" of the Association,
dated January 1,  1985,  as  applied  to  such  agreement, and all
schedules and agreements  supplemental  to  the Development Credit
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to one
million, four hundred thousand dollars ($1,400,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit  Agreement  for expenditures made or, if
the Bank shall so agree, to  be  made in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services  required  for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development  Credit Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one  percent  (1/2  of  1%)  per  annum  above the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for  the  last  Semester  ending prior to the
commencement of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
Page  3
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in the Schedule to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) Subject  to  paragraph (b) of this Section,
Sections 2.02 (b), 2.09, 3.01, 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 3.06, 3.07,
3.08, 3.09, 3.10 and 4.01  of the Development Credit Agreement and
Schedules 1, 2, 3, 4  and  5  thereto are incorporated in the Loan
Agreement, with the following  modifications  in said Sections and
Schedules 2, 3 and 4 unless the context otherwise requires:
          (i)  the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank";
         (ii)  the term  "Credit"  and  "Credit  Account" shall be
               read as "Loan" and "Loan Account"; and
        (iii)  the term "this  Agreement"  shall  be  read as "the
               Development Credit Agreement".
     (b)  So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement  shall  remain outstanding and unless
the Borrower has been notified otherwise by the Bank:
          (i)  all actions  taken,  including  approvals given, by
               the Association pursuant to any of the Sections of,
               and Schedules to,  the Development Credit Agreement
               enumerated in  paragraph  (a)  of  this Section, as
               well  as  pursuant  to  Section  2.02  (a)  of  the
               Development Credit Agreement, shall be deemed to be
               taken or given in  the  name  and on behalf of both
               the Association and the Bank; and
         (ii)  all information or  documentation  furnished by the
               Borrower  to  the   Association   pursuant  to  the
               provisions  of  any   of   such   Sections  of  the
               Development Credit  Agreement  or Schedules thereto
               shall  be  deemed  to  be  furnished  to  both  the
               Association and Bank.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  4.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional  conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that all conditions  precedent  to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
     Section 4.02. The date July  28, 1989 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  4
     Section 4.03. If the  Development Credit Agreement terminates
prior to the termination of  this Agreement, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement referred  to  in this Agreement shall
continue in full force  and  effect  between  the Borrower and the
Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 5.01. The  Ministry  of  Finance  and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Planning
          Kingstown
          St. Vincent and the Grenadines
                                          Telex:
                                             7531 FOREIGN V.Q.
                                          Fascimile No:
                                             809-45-72152 (SVG)
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   SAINT VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES
                   By /s/ James Pompey
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                             SCHEDULE
Page  5
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
     beginning August 1, 1994
     through   August 1, 2005                           60,000
On February 1, 2006                                     20,000
_____________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Section 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years                            0.90
     before maturity
