Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-25:8-PQ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 7, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978             March 1979
Currency Unit =  Portuguese Escudo (Esc)       Esc
$1 =  Esc  43.9                     47.9
Esc =  $0.023                        0.021
Exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report $1 = EBC. 45.5
(Floating Exchange Rate)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BFN      Banco de Fomento Nacional
CGD      Caixa Geral de Depositos
EC       European Communities
EFTA     European Free Trade Association
EPPI     Public Enterprise for Industrial Estates
(Empresa Publica de Parques Industriais)
FFE      Export Development Fund
(Fundo de Fomento de Exportacao)
FGRC     Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund
GIT      Textile Industry Office
(Gabinete Industria Textil)
IAPMEI   Institute for Support to Small- and Medium-Size Industrial Enterprises
(Instituto de Apoio as Pequenas e Medias Empresas Industriais)
IMF      International Monetary Fund
ITC      International Trade Center
KfW      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LNETI    National Laboratory for Industrial Engineering and Technology
(Laboratorio Nacional de Engenharia e Technologia Industrial)
SMI      Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Enterprises
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO    United Nations Industrial Development Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL - SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of Portugal
Beneficiaries:       Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Enterprises (SMI), the
Public EnterprLse for Industrial Estates (EPPI), Export
Development Fund (FFE), National Laboratory for Industrial
Engineering and Technology (LNETI), Textile Industry
Office (GIT).
Amount:              $45 million equivalent
Terms:               15 years, including two years of grace witn interest at
7.9 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    For Banco de Portugal:  A subsidiary loan ($33 million)
to bear the same interest rate as the Bank loan; its
amortization to follow a fixed schedule reflecting the
estimated aggregate amortization schedules of SMI subloans.
For SMI: Subloan amortization period to conform with
subproject life but not to exceed 12 years, including up
to 3 years grace at the floating interest rate applied to
comparable loans (currently a maximum of 22.25 percent per
annum, but subject to interest subsidies, paras. 32, 33,
59). For EPPI: A subsidiary loan ($9.5 million) for 15
years including 5 years grace, and the same interest rate
as the Bank loan. The Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund would
bear the exchange risk on the SMI credit line against the
payment of a full fee (para. 34). EPPI would assume the
exchange risk under its subsidiary loan.
Project
Description:         The project objectives are:  (i) to assist, through a
package of financial and technical assistance, the
restructuring, modernization and expansion of selected
SMI; (ii) to generate or save foreign exchange by promot-
ing SMI exports and efficient import substitution; (iii)
to maintain jobs in existing SMI and to create new ones
at a moderate capital cost per job; (iv) to develop
industrial estates in a number of less developed regions;
(v) to assist the Government in developing technological
support to industry in particular to SMI; and (vi) to help
prepare a rationalization and investment plan for the
textile subsector.   To attain these objectives, Banco
de Portugal, will refinance credits to eligible SMI out of
a subsidiary loan; EPPI will build industrial estates with
the help of another subsidiary loan, and rent them to SMI;
LNETI's technology institutes and laboratories will be
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii1 -
equipped to provide better technological support to indus-
try; the export promotion component will provide technical
assistance to devise marketing arrangements and to review
incentives; the textile and technology studies will recom-
mend development programs, rationalization measures and
future projects in their respective areas. There are
moderate risks concerning the implementation of a project
involving complex institutional arrangements, the progress
in SMI investments, and evolution of occupancy on indus-
trial estates (para. 65).
Estimated Costs:                                                            % of
Local    Foreign    Total    Total
------------ $ million -----------
1.   SMI Credit Line                         33.00      33.00      66.00 /1  56.7
2.   EPPI Industrial Estates Program
(investment in the period 1979-82)   37.72         9.47      47.19      40.5
3.   Export Promotion Program                 0.06       0.24       0.30      0.3
4.   Technical and Technological
Assistance Program, Fellowships          0.50       1.85      2.35       2.0
5.   Textile and Technology
Policy Studies                           0.12      0.46       0.58       0.5
TOTAL                                   71.40     45.02    116.42    100.0 /2
Financing Plan:                                            $ million
Bank Loan                                               45.00
Other Foreign Sources                                    5.88
Government Contribution                                 21.89
Other Domestic Sources                                  43.65
TOTAL                                                  116.42
/1   Includes $50.8 million fixed investment cost and $15.2 million working
capital.
/2   Includes physical and price contingencies of $3.6 million and $8.2 million
respectively for items other than SMI lending program; of the contingency
total, $9.3 million in local cost and $2.5 in foreign exchange.



- 1ii -
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY           1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
-----------$ million -----------
Annual           4.0   11.5   17.3   10.3    1.9
Cumulative       4.0   15.5   32.8   43.1   45.0
Rate of Re urn:             Credit line (56.7 percent of total cost), at least
11 percent economic rate of return on individual
subprojects.  EPPI component (40.5 percent of total
cost), 22 percent economic rate of return on the
estate program (paras. 50, 61).
Appraisal Report:           No.:  2312 PO
Date: April 24, 1979






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Portugal for the equivalent of $45.0 million to help
finance a project for developing small- and medium-scale industry.  The loan
would have a term of 15 years including 2 years of grace, with interest at 7.9
percent per annum. Most of the proceeds would be onlent to Banco de Portugal
for establishing a line of credit for small- and medium-scale industry, and to
Public Enterprise for Industrial Estates (EPPI) for constructing industrial
estates (para. 59). United Nations Industrial Development Organization
(UNIDO), European Free Trade Association (EFTA) Industrial Development Fund
for Portugal, and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) would contribute about
$5.9 million towards project financing in grants and loans (para 48).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "An Updating Report on the Portuguese
Economy" (No. 2214-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 8, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.         Between the revolution of April 1974 and September 1975, Portugal's
political and economic systems were radically transformed. The colonies were
given their independence. There was movement towards a representative politi-
cal system which became a reality in mid-1976. There was nationalization of
the banks, insurance companies, power companies, major transportation agencies
and the large industrial groups. A comprehensive land reform was carried out
in the central and southern parts of the country. Trade union activity was
legalized and workers' rights safeguarded. Minimum wages were established and
restraints were put on the highest salary levels. Prices were controlled.
Unemployment and social security benefits were increased. This was a very
different Portugal from two years earlier. There was a new relationship
between management and labor, and at first there was lack of discipline,
absenteeism and reduced productivity. Perhaps most important of all for the
longer term, the revolution created expectations of a substantial increase in
consumption. Such an increase did indeed take place initially, financed in
large part through the substantial foreign exchange reserves which had been
accumulated before 1974. During 1976 and 1977 there was an increasing aware-
ness that such growth of consumption could not be maintained without seriously
prejudicing the country's medium-term growth. The governments which have held
office since the elections of 1976 have had the unenviable task of persuading
the population to accept stagnant or declining levels of real consumption.
1/   Substantially unchanged from Part I of the President's Report for the
Second Highway Loan which was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 4, 1979.



- 2 -
4.        In terms of the world economy and its impact on the domestic situa-
tion, the Portuguese revolution could not have found a time more. likely to
complicate the adjustment and impede future growth than April 1974. The
oil price increase brought with it a substantial worsening of the country's
terms of trade, while the economic downturn in Western Europe meant the
slackening of demand for Portugal's exports, less earnings from tourism and,
perhaps most serious of all, the levelling off of the demand for Portuguese
workers. The Portuguese labor force in Western Europe had risen to 745,000 by
1973. Combined with the growing colonial army, this had meant very low levels
of open unemployment in Portugal. After 1974, the increase in the labor force
could no longer be absorbed by other European economies. To this was added
the once and for all impact of demobilization and the return of about 500,000
people from the colonies. At present about 350,000 or about 8 percent of the
labor force, are unemployed, although there is widespread underemployment.
5.        This is the background against which the management of the Portuguese
economy in the years since the revolution must be viewed. In trying to des-
cribe the events of that period, one is faced with the problem of portraying
sequentially a series of simultaneous adjustments. One should not, however,
infer a chain of causality from this. The convenient starting point is the
rapid increase in money wages which took place after the revolution. Sharp
increases in money wages combined with loss of productivity in many enter-
prises as labor relations deteriorated. The take-over of industrial and
commercial enterprises and farms was often associated with an initial loss of
production. In addition demand was sluggish for enterprises producing for
export or for domestic middle and upper-middle class consumption. The conse-
quence was that a large number of firms were in severe financial difficulties
and the government, rather than risk a spate of bankruptcies with associated
unemployment, used the nationalized banking system to provide liberal credit
facilities to these firms. The fiscal system was also used to provide direct
subsidies to public enterprises and to subsidize basic food items.
6.        The evidence is that, by end 1977, real consumption per capita rose
by about 10 percent over the 1973 level. In the context of virtually stag-
nant GDP per capita over the period (i.e. it kept pace with the 10 percent
increase in resident population which was due to returnees from the colonies
and natural growth in population, not compensated by emigration as in the
past), the increase in consumption was at the expense of domestic savings.
The increase in demand did not have a major impact on production in the
short-run for a number of reasons. First, Portugal's structure of production
did not fit the new structure of demand, which was oriented towards items of
lower middle-class and working class consumption. Second, even in industries
operating at full capacity, entrepreneurs were reluctant to invest when such
investment meant hiring additional labor. Third, with the increase in popula-
tion came a proportionate increase in demand for food products, most of which
had to be imported because of sluggish agricultural growth. Fourth, the
availability of foreign exchange constituted a constraint for domestic produc-
tion, as restrictions were placed on the import of certain intermediate goods
at various points in time. As a consequence of these factors, much of the



-3-
increase in demand showed up in the 23 percent per annum average rate of
inflation and/or in the increasing trade deficit.
7.        The expansion of domestic demand put severe pressure on the balance
of payments, which gradually began to loom as the dominant feature in the
economic policy mix. Portugal's export receipts (both goods and non-factor
services such as tourism earnings) fell by about 30 percent in real terms
between 1973 and 1975. There was a combination of factors which led to
this; the loss of the colonial markets, the recession in Western Europe, the
deterioration in Portugal's competitive position, lower production in some
industrial enterprises, and the diversion of some production to meet the
expansion in domestic demand. In addition there was a severe terms of trade
loss. As a consequence, the current account surplus of $348 million in 1973
turned to a deficit of $817 million in 1975, $1.25 billion in 1976 and $1.5
billion in 1977. It should be noted that it was the decline in exports and
the terms of trade loss which produced this effect, rather than any sharp in-
crease in imports which were only 6 percent above the 1973 level in real terms
by 1977. Sustaining deficits of this magnitude has meant the depletion of
Portugal's previously ample foreign currency reserves, and substantial borrow-
ing against its gold reserves.
8.        The task that successive governments in Portugal have faced is that
of reducing domestic demand and imports and increasing savings and exports.
There has been little or no disagreement on the need for such measures--the
art has lain in stabilizing at a pace which is politically realistic. It
should be recognized that the prevailing conditions in the country, especially
for the first two years after the revolution, were not conducive to achieving
quick results. However, efforts in the right direction were initiated by the
first elected government of Portugal, but conditions remained difficult--the
expectations of the population were still high, and the principal sectors of
the economy were under the lingering effects of the radical political and
social changes of 1974 and 1975 (paras. 3 and 4). Numerous measures have been
introduced to reduce consumption--higher taxes, ceilings on increases in real
wages, rise in utility prices, reduction of price subsidies and relaxation of
price controls, etc.--but governments have not found themselves able to deny
to enterprises and agricultural cooperatives access to credit at levels which
have sustained the rate of employment, and which have largely negated the cuts
in other areas. Various direct methods have been used to try to improve the
balance of payments--depreciation of the escudo (by 62 percent between end
1973 and end 1977), surcharges on imports, interest rate subsidies for exports,
etc.--but again these have had limited impact in the face of buoyant domestic
demand. Obvaously deficits at the 1977 level could not be continued. The
IMF diagnosed the need for even more stringency, and in mid-1978, agreement
was reached on a stabilization program aimed at bringing the deficit down to
$1 billion in the 12 months ending April 1979. This implied smaller GDP
growth than in the previous two years and the shaking out of the less effi-
cient units in the manufacturing sector as well, with some consequent increase
in unemployment. The estimates for 1978 now indicate that the current account
deficit was about $940 million and the GDP growth about 3.8 percent. The
measures taken to achieve this included a 6.5 percent devaluation and the



- 4 -
continuation of the crawling peg depreciation of the escudo over the period,
and a 3 to 4 percentage point rise in interest rates. The evidence indicates
that these measures have been particularly effective in reducing the very high
rate of expansion of stocks of imported goods in 1977 which was brought about
by the expectation of further devaluation and the substantially negative level
of real interest rates. The measures also resulted in a 20 percent increase
in the value of merchandise exports and a rise of about 40 percent in tourism
earnings and workers' remittances in 1978, as compared with 1977.
9.        The large current account deficit of the past four years are in one
sense a function of the decline in the savings rate, but can also be looked at
as a consequence of maintaining the level of investment at around 20 percent
of GDP, in spite of the savings decline. A high level of investment is
crucial to Portugal in the long run, and ordinarily the maintenance of this
level during a difficult period such as the past four years would be a cause
for satisfaction.
10.       If the Portuguese economy is to support even a modest growth in pri-
vate consumption in the medium-term and come to terms with the very serious
unemployment problem, increased investment and output will be necessary in two
major areas: export-oriented manufacturing and agriculture. The restructur-
ing of the Portuguese economy requires a vast improvement in agricultural
productivity and the rapid recovery and expansion of exports. The investments
which have been undertaken in the past years have not for the most part
contributed much to the achievement of these objectives.
11.       The stabilization program, which ended in April 1979, will only have
an impact on improving Portugal's long-term prospects to the extent that
increased public savings can be built into the fiscal system, and insofar as
the composition of public investment addresses important structural problems.
Through its stabilization program Portugal is buying time till both private
and public sectors have the confidence to invest in new capacity for export
and till the institutional changes have taken place which can improve Portu-
gal's agricultural production. Portugal is currently negotiating another
standby with the IMF, which will involve a further year of stabilization. If
the encouraging results of 1978 can be sustained in 1979, a modest beginning
in reflating the economy can be made from early 1980. By that time private
investment can also be expected to gather momentum. Over the long-term
(1980-85), Portugal should be able to achieve and sustain a growth rate
of about 5.5 percent per annum. The outlook for this is encouraging, given
the good economic performance in 1978.
12.       The industrial sector will obviously remain the leading sector
in Portugal's future growth. Here the problem is that the export of manufactures
is mainly done by the private sector which has been reluctant to invest for
reasons quite unrelated to the profitability of exports. These include the
general uncertainty and the difficulties of dismissing labor once it has been
hired on a permanent basis. The Government has made a substantial effort to
restore the confidence of the private sector. Thus provision has been made
for compensation for nationalized assets, the law on dismissal has been eased,
and profitability has been improved through lowering real wages in 1977 and



-5-
1978, depreciating the exchange rate and providing special incentives. The
private sector is likely to be the major contributor to the economic growth
rate foreseen for the 1980s. Restoring private sector confidence may require
further incentives and clear evidence of a Government commitment to private
initiative. For the rest, it is partly a matter of time, as increasing con-
fidence develops in the stability of democratic government in Portugal, and
as a new relationship evolves between management and labor similar to that in
other Western European countries. The Government could perhaps do more to try
to orient the manufacturing units in the public sector in the direction of
exporting from their present capacity, and investing in new capacity for
export production.
13.       The focus of economic management in Portugal during the past four
years has understandably been on the short-term. The time is long overdue to
analyze the medium- and long-term needs. At the aggregate level, the domestic
savings rate needs to be restored to levels which permit adequate sustainable
rates of investment without crippling balance of payments deficits. At the
sectoral level, there is a need to restructure investment in a way that will
permit rapid growth overall and a slow resumption in the growth of private
consumption. A medium-term plan was prepared in 1977 but was not finalized
due to political difficulties. Government changes since that time have pre-
vented agreement being reached on the framework for a new medium-term plan;
work in that direction is continuing.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
14.       The Bank has an important role to play in Portugal at present in
helping the Government focus on the implications of short-term actions for
medium-term development, in making the Government more aware of the role that
institutions play in the growth process, and in assisting the Government in
evolving a set of functioning institutions. It will continue to assist the
government in its efforts to restructure the economy, and to bring about the
long overdue institutional reforms which will be necessary preconditions to
rapid and more balanced development in the future.
15.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to Portugal's
need for external assistance, both for balance of payments support and for
long-term project loans. With gold as collateral, the Bank of Portugal has
obtained short-term loans for balance of payments support from the Bank for
International Settlement and European central banks. The short-term debt
of the Bank of Portugal and of the commercial banks amounted to about $2.1
billion at the end of 1977. In addition, the IMF has so far extended about
$340 million as gold tranches, oil facilities, compensatory financing, and
two credit tranches. The Bank has so far approved $299 million in seven loans
during FY1976-79. In addition, the EC/EIB, EFTA, as well as bilateral agen-
cies have committed significant funds to Portugal in emergency concessionary
aid and for long-term projects. In 1977, Portugal received $750 million
in medium- and long-term aid commitments from 14 countries, mainly the US,
Germany and Japan, as balance of payments support, which are now being dis-
bursed. Commercial banks were relatively inactive in Portugal until May



-6-
1978, because of the Government's prolonged negotiations with the IMF and the
general uncertainty. But in August 1978, the Government was able to attract
two medium-term loans from consortia of commercial banks in the Euro-currency
market for a total of $450 million at an interest rate of 1 percent over LIBOR
for a term of 7 years including 4 years grace, to restructure its short-term
debt. Portugal will continue to require sizeable external inflows for the
investment necessary to restructure its economy, while it lowers its balance
of payments deficit in the future. The multilateral lenders, and in partic-
ular the EC/EIB, EFTA and the World Bank, will have to continue to play a
vital role in meeting Portgual's capital requirements.
16.       Portugal's public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term
debt (disbursed and outstanding) was about $1,304 million at end 1977, with a
debt service ratio (debt service/earnings from exports, non-factor services
and workers' remittances) of 3.7 percent. Total (public and private) medium-
and long-term external debt reached about $2,230 million at end 1977 with a
debt service ratio of about 11.9 percent. There still remains a gold stock
of about 690 metric tons (June 1978) valued at about $4.8 billion, at a price
of $200 per ounce, serving as a safety net, of which about one-third is
pledged for short-term borrowings by the central bank. In the future,
Portugal's total medium- and long-term debt service ratio will be around 17
percent during the 1978-85 period. However, the Government has already begun
to make efforts to restructure its short-term foreign debt so as to improve
the maturity profile (see para. 15). In the light of these facts, of the
stabilization efforts made by the Government, and of the prospects for growth,
Portugal can be considered creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL 1/
17.       The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal was during the period
1963-66 and lending was concentrated in the power sector, in line with govern-
ment priorities which reflected the power needs of a rapidly developing indus-
try. Five loans totaling $57.5 million helped finance three thermal and two
hydropower projects, which were successfully completed to meet the country's
increasing power requirements.
18.       The turbulent events of the more recent past and the ensuing dis-
location of human resources and the transition to an open political system
have revealed social and economic weaknesses which are unusual for a high-
income developing country. The recent governments in Portugal were pre-
occupied with these weaknesses; after some degree of social and political
peace and stability was achieved, they addressed themselves to restructuring
the economy and the social services, and to carrying out the wide institutional
reforms required for that purpose. The dual task of tackling the short-term
problems and restructuring the economy over the medium-term for integration
1/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for
the Second Highway Loan, which was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 4, 1979.



-7-
within Europe will require far-reaching efforts from the government and the
people of Portugal. Meanwhile, to overcome pressing short-term economic
problems and to eliminate the structural deficiencies without postponing
developmental efforts, Portugal will continue to require sizeable external
assistance, both financial and technical, in the years ahead.
19.       The Bank has responded to Portugal's needs both through identifica-
tion, preparation and financing of projects and through economic and sector
work. The proposed loan would finance the Bank's fourteenth project in that
country, the ninth since the resumption of lending in 1976. 1/ At that time,
demand for power had outstripped supply once again and a power project was
selected as the Bank's first new operation in this familiar sector. A loan
to finance a portion of Electricidade de Portugal's investment program for
1976-86 was approved on June 24, 1976. Seven further operations followed: a
loan for a highway project, involving maintenance and construction, prepara-
tion of a transport master plan, a railway rehabilitation plan and a road
investment plan, approved on October 19, 1976; a loan to Banco de Fomento
Nacional (BFN) for industrial finance was approved May 24, 1977; a loan for
a water supply project was approved on March 28, 1978; a loan for an educa-
tion project was approved on April 27, 1978; a loan for an agricultural and
fisheries credit project was approved on June 27, 1978 a loan for a fertilizer
modernization project was approved on January 4, 1979 and a loan for a second
highway project is to be considered by the Executive Directors on May 17,
1979. Excluding the Second Highways, these Bank loans amount to $299 million.
Disbursements under the initial loans (FY1976 and FY1977) are low due mainly
to the Portuguese agencies' lack of experience with Bank procedures and slow
action on procurement. These difficulties are now being overcome. Under the
FY1976 and FY1977 loans, commitments have reached high levels and disburse-
ments are accelerating; under the subsequent loans, procurement is proceeding
satisfactorily. Nevertheless, as of March 31, 1979, total Bank exposure in
Portugal stood at only $41.7 million. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans as of March 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.       In an intensive parallel effort at the macro-economic and sectoral
levels, the Bank assisted the government in reviewing policy and management
issues. The economic missions and the discussion of their reports have pro-
vided a basis for a review of policy at the macro-economic level. Reviews
of the water supply (together with WHO) and the education sectors were carried
out and were discussed with the government in March 1977. Agriculture and
manufacturing export industries were also studied, and were reviewed with the
government in November 1977. The report entitled "Manufacturing Export Indus-
tries in Portugal" (No. 1695a-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on January 13, 1978, and the report entitled "Portugal - Agricultural Survey"
(No. 1689b-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 24, 1978.
21.       In the light of the economic and sector discussions mentioned above,
agriculture and industry have been identified as the concentration areas for
1/   The Second Highway loan to be considered by the Executive Directors on
May 17, 1979 would finance the Bank's thirteenth project in the country.



- 8 -
Bank lending. In the industrial sector there is need for major structural
improvements such as merging firms, eliminating uneconomic enterprises and
modernizing equipment. Improvements in these areas are being introduced in
the fertilizer subsector, are being studied for the metalworking, pulp and
paper subsectors and are proposed for the textile subsector with Bank support
and advice. Another important constraint is insufficient financial and
technical assistance and technological support to small- and medium-size
enterprises. The proposed project for the development of small and medium
industry (SMI) would address this need. The importance of developing the
industrial sector cannot be over-emphasized, since this sector will be the
main force in the Portuguese economy, primarily for the urgently needed export
expansion and competitiveness in the European common market but also for
efficient import substitution. The main objectives of Bank lending to indus-
try are structural reform, export promotion and employment creation or preser-
vation. In agriculture, a sector beset with major problems, there is consid-
erable scope for stepping up growth. The major constraints are the still
unsettled land tenure conditions, institutional weaknesses and a shortage of
trained technicians for promoting improved technologies. The Bank has assisted
the Government in creating a sound agricultural credit institution and future
operations in this sector are likely to foster irrigation, forestry, livestock
and fisheries development. The trained manpower requirements of the indus-
trial and agricultural sectors would be addressed through projects in those
sectors as well as through the FY78 first education project and a recently
appraised second education project. The improvements in transportation
required to sustain the increased output of the agricultural and industrial
sectors would be addressed by the FY76 first highway project, the second
highway project and a third transportation project which is in the process of
being identified.
22.       Thus, essentially through its involvement in industry and agricul-
ture, the Bank would continue its efforts aimed at: (i) easing the immediate
foreign exchange constraint; (ii) improving the longer-term balance of pay-
ments situation by supporting projects aimed at export expansion and selected
import substitution; iii) assisting public investment in previously neglected
social areas; and (iv) supporting government efforts toward the institutional
and policy reforms needed to restructure the economy.
23.       Sizeable and timely long-term external assistance is crucial if
Portugal is to deal successfully with the problems that confront its economy.
It is the Bank's objective to contribute to this effort while providing advice
on developing the new institutions and reforming old ones, an institutional
effort which is indispensable if Portugal is to achieve its overall long-term
economic objectives.
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY
Industrial Development
24.       Manufacturing has traditionally been the leading sector in the
Portuguese economy. In 1973, its share of GDP was about 35 percent, it



employed 27.8 percent of the labor force and accounted for 70 percent of
exports. Currently it maintains this position and metalworking, machinery
and transport equipment, as well as textiles, clothing and footwear sub-
sectors, contribute significantly to GDP, to employment and to exports.
25.      Manufacturing, particularly export-oriented manufacturing, was the
driving force behind the remarkable growth in the Portuguese economy in the
period 1963-1973. The performance of that period took place, however, within
a seriously unbalanced structure. Growth was concentrated in a relatively
small number of large and modern enterprises enjoying privileged access to
credit and foreign technology, while the medium and small enterprises, which
constitute the bulk of the manufacturing industry, were given little assis-
tance and few incentives to modernize and reach an adequate size. Artifically
low wages (supported by a ban on trade-union activities), cheap raw materials
and energy, restrictive industrial licensing, protective tariffs and captive
markets for Portuguese exports in the former overseas territories hampered
efficiency in general.
26.       This unbalanced industrial structure proved particularly vulnerable
following the profound changes in the domestic and international environment
in the period 1974-75 (paras. 3 and 4). The consequence for a large number
of enterprises was a sharp decline in industrial profits. Private firms
(which, despite the nationalization in March 1975 of many major industrial
groups, still account for 85 percent of value added, 88 percent of manufactur-
ing employment, and more than 90 percent of manufactured exports) reacted to
the depressed post-revolutionary financial and political environment by an
almost complete halt in investment.
27.       Measures introduced by the Government as well as increased demand,
eased industry's most immediate problems and prompted a marked recovery of
private investment in 1976 and 1977 (para. 12). However, industry's full
long-term potential will be realized only through a difficult restructuring
process, the opening of new lines of activity and the development of new
markets. This will take some time, particularly as private entrepreneurs'
attitude towards new investment continues to be cautious as a result of past
losses, and of the deflationary impact of the stabilization program. Essen-
tially for the same reasons, enterprises are running arrears, mostly on short
term debt to banks.
28.       Manufacturing is concentrated in the coastal regions between Viano
do Castelo and Oporto in the north and Lisbon and Setubal in the south,
particularly in the Lisbon and Oporto districts. In recent years industrial
activity in the coastal regions has continued to increase, while that in the
non-coastal regions has declined in relative terms. The industrial estates
program under the proposed loan aims at encouraging greater regional balance.
Small- and Medium-Scale Industry
29.       The Portuguese authorities define small- and medium-scale indus-
trial enterprises (SMI) as those employing less than 400 workers and with
annual sales not exceeding Esc. 150 million ($3.3 million equivalent). In



- 10 -
1976/1977 SMI represented 97 percent of the manufacturing enterprises employ-
ing at least 5 workers and accounted for about 60 percent of manufacturing
employment and an estimated 40-50 percent of manufacturing value added. SMI
are predominant in export-oriented sectors, such as woolen textiles, clothing
and footwear, wooden furniture, fish processing and metal products; however,
realization of their full export potential would require improvements in the
incentive structure and provision of increased financial and technical assis-
tance.
30.       Labor productivity is lower in sectors dominated by SMI; although
partially a result of lower capital intensity, this also stems from deficien-
cies in production technology and management. The technology component of
the project, together with IAPMEI (para. 40) technical assistance, would help
increase productivity in SMI.
The Financial System and SMI Financing
31.       The principal institutions of the Portuguese financial system are
Banco de Portugal (the Central Bank); ten Portuguese commercial banks; Caixa
Geral de Depositos (CGD), the major savings institution; and Banco de Fomento
Nacional (BFN), the major development bank which was the beneficiary of an
earlier Bank loan (paras 19 and 45). The commercial banks and BFN were
nationalized in March 1975; and CGD has been a public institution since its
inception, but these institutions nevertheless retain a significant degree of
autonomy.
32.       Banco de Portugal sets mandatory interest rates for both deposits
and loans. Interest rates were raised five times between July 1974 and August
1977. Since Portugal uses a floating interest rate system, these rate in-
creases affected all outstanding loans regardless of their term and not just
new loans. The. maximum lending rate on term loans for over 5 years rose from
11.5 percent to 18.7 percent during that period, but these increases were
not sufficient to eliminate the gap between interest rates and inflation (20
percent in 1975, 18 percent in 1976, 27 percent in 1977). As part of the
stabilization program, interest rates were raised again very substantially in
May 1978. Following this increase which applied to all outstanding loans, the
maximum rate on term loans (22.25 percent) became marginally positive in real
terms as the inflation rate has been declining and was about 22 percent in
1978. The expected further declines in the rate of inflation (to about 18
percent in 1979, 15 percent in 1980, 10 percent and below in 1981 and there-
after) gives scope for interest rates to attain significantly positive levels
in real terms even with possible reductions in nominal levels of interest
rates. The Government intends to maintain interest rates at positive real
levels as inflation subsides and to review these interest rates (including
interest subsidies) with the Bank at regular intervals.
33.       The structure of interest rates is modified by surcharges levied on,
and subsidies paid to, borrowers by the Central Bank. The subsidies struc-
ture as well as levels, were established in 1977 when interest rates began
to rise steeply and when the investment climate was unfavorable. The main
subsidies for investment credit affect about 10 percent of loans to industrial



- 11 -
projects and are geared to the labor intensity of the project and the impact
of the investment on the balance of payments. This system is expected to be
improved to give more emphasis to foreign exchange earnings or savings. It is
not known whether subsidies have led to sub-optimal investments while it is
accepted that they have mitigated the adverse psychological effect of the
large increases in interest rates on SMI investment decisions. Subloans under
the proposed SMI line of credit will be eligible for subsidies as long as
these are maintained. Over the life of a twelve-year loan, these interest
rate subsidies would lower the effective lending rate to a simple average of
19.6 percent per annum (discounted average would be 17.5 percent). This
effective rate would be marginally positive during the first few months of
project implementation late in 1979 and significantly so as applications for
the SMI line of credit gain momentum in 1980. It is expected that reductions
in the interest rates in nominal terms in the interim would be accompanied by
reductions in subsidies.   Moreover, the Government is examining new policy
proposals which would eliminate interest rate subsidies for larger projects,
and replace them with other incentives; if the new policy is successful it may
be extended to smaller projects.
34.       To reduce the adverse impact on industrial investments, notably SMI,
of the high uncertainty of future depreciation of the escudo, the Government,
in February 1977, established the Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund (FGRC) under
the supervision of Banco de Portugal. The FGRC absorbs the exchange risk
associated with selected foreign borrowipgs for high priority projects. In
return the Fund receives fees corresponding to the difference between the
domestic (floating) interest rate and the interest rate on the foreign borrow-
ings, after deduction of a commission for the intervening Portuguese financial
intermediary. The subloans under the SMI line of credit will benefit from
FGRC coverage which, given the nature of SMI, is an appropriate arrangement.
The fees paid to the fund are fixed with a view to achieving self-sufficiency.
Exchange rate adjustments are expected to compensate for the differences in
local and international inflation rates.
35.       Until Portugal's efforts, starting in 1978 to reduce overall domestic
credit expansion, liquidity in general had not been a constraint to industrial
investment. Rather, most financial institutions have been ill-equipped to
appraise investment projects and commercial bank loan terms have been inade-
quate. SMI have confronted special problems in securing financing because of
insufficient equity, a lack of suitable collateral, and reservations on the
part of the financial intermediaries to lend to unknown entities.
36.        Before 1977 term credit was only available from BFN and CGD.
Commercial banks were restricted, except under special conditions, to opera-
tions not exceeding one year; their principal exposure to term lending was
through roll-over arrangements of short-term loans reserved for prime custo-
mers. Legislation of August 1977 permits banks to lend for up to ten years
and requires them to direct a given amount of resources to medium- and long-
term credit operations. Commercial banks are now building up a project
appraisal capability. The Government has agreed not to modify the statutory
maximum amortization period in the August 1977 legislation without consulta-
tion with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).



- 12 -
37.       Due to decentralization and expediency, commercial banks have been
and remain the best conduit of credit to SMI. BFN, which specializes in large
scale projects, has satisfactory but slow appraisal procedures and a rela-
tively small network of branches. CGD has an extensive network of branches
and has been intensifying its efforts to serve SMI; however, it has had the
reputation of operating slowly and putting too much emphasis on the adequacy
of collaterals.
38.       As a result of losses suffered during the post-revolutionary years,
many potentially viable SMI are undercapitalized and they do not meet local
bank criteria for further borrowing. However, channelling of much needed
equity funds to SMI has been delayed due to statutory constraints and fears on
the part of firms about equity participations from government-owned banks in
view of past nationalizations. Capital participation schemes are never-
theless under consideration in Portugal at this time.
39.       Most Portuguese credit institutions have recently been affected in
varying degrees by arrears (in most cases arrears amounted to about 15-18
percent of the credit portfolio), essentially on short-term loans which are
frequently rolled over as a matter of course. This is explained by the
financial difficulties in the wake of the revolution, and the austerity
measures constraining investments (to rationalize operations), liquidity and
profits. A modest decline in arrears was registered in the first quarter of
1979 and it is expected that arrears will subside progressively as overall
economic conditions continue to improve. The Bank has been discussing the
issue with the Government since mid-1978 and an understanding has been reached
that the Government will continue to review arrears with the Bank at regular
intervals. The Government has helped the ailing SMI through viability con-
tracts under which the company commits itself to financial, production, and
profitability targets, and the Government helps with debt rescheduling and
other financial support. The Government has approved proposals for a new
agency to continue this assistance, and it is preparing a special scheme for
the SMI; the Bank would be afforded the opportunity to comment on the new
scheme.
Financial and Technical Assistance to SMI
40.       The Institute for Support to Small- and Medium-Size Industrial
Enterprises (IAPMEI). In May 1974, the Government established a commission
to help SMI to adjust to the changes in the economic environment after the
revolution. This commission was transformed in May 1975 into IAPMEI, an
agency in the Ministry of Industry and Technology. Although not a credit
institution, IAPMEI facilitates SMI access to institutional credit partic-
ularly through guarantees it can offer on behalf of the State for investment
financing. It also provides technical advisory services to SMI and plays a
catalytic role in training, in investment promotion, and in mergers and other
forms of collaboration among SMI. IAPMEI has 3 regional offices and 7 branch
offices. IAPMEI's major impediment in the past has been a significant staff
turnover, largely a result of uncompetitive salaries. IAPMEI needs to further
decentralize its activities and decision-making power, and over time intends
to set up additional branches, particularly at the industrial estates. To



- 13 -
better serve its purpose IAPMEI should have wider autonomy and offer a more
competitive compensation package to its staff. The Government and the Bank
have discussed the amendments to be made to IAPMEI's statutes for reaching
these objectives. The government approval of draft legislation, acceptable to
the Bank, to amend IAPMEI's statutes would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(e)); the remaining legislative
formalities would be completed by December 31, 1979 (Loan Agreement, Section
3.07). The Government is also considering permitting IAPMEI to take equity
participation in SMI by means of the proposed changes in statutes. IAPMEI is
developing into a strong institution capable of giving SMI the assistance they
need and has therefore been selected as the pivotal agency for the proposed
Bank project, particularly for providing technical assistance to SMI, and
appraising and authorizing projects for the SMI line of credit.
41.       The Industrial Estate Program.  Portugal's industrial development
has been heavily concentrated on the northern littoral above Lisbon. A poten-
tial for industrial (particularly SMI) development exists, however, in a
number of other regions, but has been constrained in the past by inadequate
infrastructure, a lack of incentive measures and of financial and technical
support. The absence of planning in allocation and equipment of land for
industrial use has also been an obstacle. This is particularly the case (a)
in a number of medium-sized towns in the northern and central hinterland which
possess industrial traditions but are confronted with problems of industrial
restructuring and (b) in certain districts of the southern regions where
significant manpower and natural resources provide good prospects for indus-
trialization. These regions face serious problems arising from migration to
the coastal urban/industrial centers - a trend which the Government has been
trying to slow down. Following the completion of studies and regional devel-
opment plans in the early 1970's, the Government in 1973 began preparing an
industrial estates program involving the less developed regions, and created
the Public Enterprise for Industrial Estates (EPPI) to implement the program.
An investment plan covering the period 1977-85 and involving six estates (see
map) was adopted in 1976. A follow-up plan involving another six estates is
under preparation but would not be implemented until the first six are sub-
stantially completed and occupied.
42.       The first phase of the first industrial estate in Braga was con-
structed by the end of 1977 and became available for factory rental in early
1978. Space in this facility was not sufficient to meet the strong demand
from the newly formed industrial enterprises; all of the 22 factories in the
first phase are now occupied or committed, and 44 industries have registered
themselves for space in the subsequent phases. Also under construction start-
ing in 1979 are three estates, in Guimaraes, Covilha and Evora; work on the
remaining two estates is scheduled to start by the end of 1979. The indus-
trial estates component under the proposed loan would support the Government's
efforts in this area and help complete the financing plan for the 1979-82
tranche of the industrial estates program (paras 48,52) which includes the
bulk of the total planned expenditures.



- 14 -
43.       Export Promotion.  The 10-year old Export Development Fund (FFE),
under the Secretariat of State for Foreign Trade within the Ministry of
Commerce and Tourism, is the main government body in charge of export pro-
motion. It organizes preferential credit for exporters at low or subsidized
interest rates, administers a number of other export incentive schemes and,
with the help of its overseas branches, assists in direct export promotion.
FFE appears to have spread its activities too thinly and to have inhibited
the application of some potentially effective incentives by excessive delays
and red tape. Moreover, it has not concentrated sufficiently on export pro-
motion activities directed to SMI. The Government plans to reorganize and
reinforce FFE with the assistance of the International Trade Center (ITC),
and this is expected to strengthen institutional support for exports. The
proposed project would assist the Government efforts in this field (para. 54).
44.       Technology Assistance to Industry.  Technology assistance is pro-
vided to industry by a number of specialized laboratories, and information
and training centers. The Government is consolidating the services offered by
many of these institutions, which in the future will be coordinated or con-
trolled by the National Laboratory for Industrial Engineering and Technology
(LNETI), a new institution under the Ministry of Industry and Technology.
LNETI is successfully implementing the industrial management training centers
financed under the FY1978 First Education Loan (para. 19). The technology
study component of the proposed project is expected to assist the Government
in more clearly formulating its policies of assistance to industry, partic-
ularly as they relate to SMI.
Bank Operations in the Sector
45.       With the 1977 manufacturing export industries review (para. 20), a
fruitful policy dialogue was established between the Government and the Bank.
Among other things, the review recommended more investment in the labor-
intensive export industries, notably measures to encourage entrepreneurship
in this area. More specifically, it suggested (i) making the banking system
more responsive to the investment needs of the industry including provision
of equity, (ii) the Government financing factory buildings directly and
leasing them to industries, (iii) the banks assisting the industry in project
preparation, and (iv) the Government and the banks improving project selection
methods. The review also recommended measures aimed at raising productivity
such as management training, technical assistance and plant modernization,
combined with restructuring weak industrial units. The Government is imple-
menting the recommended measures in close collaboration with the Bank, and
operations in the industrial sector, notably the proposed project, are geared
to supporting the Government's efforts (para. 21). The focus of Bank strategy
in its development finance lending is to assist viable industrial enterprises
and to strengthen the institutions which give them needed financial and
technical assistance. The Bank's first loan in the sector (No. 1432-PO)
became effective in March 1978 and was made to Banco de Fomento Nacional
(BFN), which supports larger industrial ventures. Despite an initial six
month delay, about half of the $50.0 million loan was committed as of April
15, 1979, and commitments are increasing rapidly. BFN's performance has been



- 15 -
highly satisfactory; however, like the other financial institutions it is
affected by arrears amounting to about eleven percent of its credit portfolio
(para. 39). The proposed project would be the Bank's first integrated SMI
development project in Portugal and would be complementary to the BFN loai,
since BFN concentrates primarily on larger scale enterprises. At present,
there is substantial scope for development in SMI and their labor-intensive
nature makes SMI suitable for employment generation. SMI are also suitable
for export production since one of Portugal's main comparative advantages is
its relatively cheap skilled labor. The Government considers SMI as a prime
vehicle to accelerate Portugal's economic recovery, and is intensifying
assistance to them.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
46.       The project was identified by a Bank mission in November/December
1977. Preparation assistance was provided to the Government during a Bank
mission in April 1978, and the project was appraised in June/July 1978. Nego-
tiations took place in Washington from April 4 to 11, 1979. The Portuguese
delegation was led by Mr. J. Salgueiro, President of the BFN, and included the
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, IAPMEI and EPPI. A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project" (No.
2312-PO) dated April 24, 1979, is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. The main features of the loan and project are listed in the Loan
and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
47.       The objective of the proposed project is to provide a comprehensive
and well coordinated support package consisting of credit, technical and tech-
nological assistance to SMI - the backbone of the Portuguese industry. It
would mainly (i) assist the restructuring, modernization and expansion of SMI;
(ii) encourage foreign exchange earnings or savings; (iii) develop the indus-
trial base of the less developed regions of the interior and extend support
to SMI in those areas; (iv) ensure the viability of existing jobs in SMI and
create new ones at a moderate cost per job.
Project Components, Cost Estimates, and Financing Plan
48.       The project to be implemented over four and one half years has a
total cost of about $116.4 million of which about $45 million, or 39 percent,
is in foreign exchange.   It comprises five components:   (i) $66 million for
credits to small- and medium-size industry, of which the proposed loan would
finance $33 million which is the estimated foreign exchange cost of fixed
investments to be financed, and the financial intermediaries and borrowers,
the balance; (ii) about $47.2 million for an industrial estates program, of
which the proposed loan would finance about $9.5 million corresponding to the
foreign exchange costs of the program; the balance (local costs) is expected



- 16 -
to be financed by a European Free Trade Association (EFTA) escudo loan of
$1.1 million equivalent for 12 years including 2 years grace at 19.25 percent
interest per annum (but enjoying interest subsidies), a Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) loan of $4.7 million equivalent, for 20 years at 4.5
percent interest per annum; the Government would provide about $18.8 million
equivalent in equity and $2.4 million equivalent in a long-term subordinated
loan with grace period and interest capitalization extending through 1982
(this loan may be converted to equity) and local financial intermediaries
about $10.7 million equivalent in loans; (iii) a $300,000 export promotion
component, of which about $240,000 to be financed by the Bank loan and the
rest by the Government; (iv) about $2.3 million for a technology component of
which the Bank loan would finance about $1.9 million corresponding to the
foreign exchange component, and the Government the balance; (v) a textile
study and a technology study costing about $580,000 in total, of which the
proposed loan would finance $410,000, UNIDO (a grant for the textile study),
$80,000, and the Government, the balance. The above costs include price and
physical contingencies for items other than the credit line (loan and project
summary). A total of about 119 man months of consulting services would be
used for items (iii) and (v) above; the average total cost of consulting
services is estimated at about $7,400 per man month.
A. The SMI Line of Credit
49.       This component would help provide credit to SMI for industrial
ventures. The ten Portuguese commercial banks, as well as Banco de Fomento
Nacional (BFN) and Caixa Geral de Depositos (CGD) would operate the credit
line under the coordination of Banco de Portugal, as the apex institution, and
the Institute technical adviser. For this purpose, the Government would on-
lend $33 million of the loan proceeds to Banco de Portugal and the latter
would channel it to the SMI by financing eligible subloans extended by the
above intermediaries to SMI. While Banco de Portugal would be responsible for
financial coordination, for disbursements and repayments under the SMI line of
credit, IAPMEI would be in charge of appraising subborrowers and their proj-
ects and following up on project implementation. The operation of the credit
line would be governed by the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement with
IAPMEI, a subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and Banco de
Portugal, and a protocol between Banco de Portugal and IAPMEI on one side and
the participating financial intermediaries on the other. The latter instru-
ment would, among other things, establish the respective roles and respon-
sibilities of all the institutions involved in operating the credit line.  In
view of its crucial role, the signing of such a protocol by at least three
intermediaries representing at least 40 percent of the 12 intermediaries'
total assets (as of December 31, 1977) would be a condition of effectiveness
of the loan, as would be the signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and Banco de Portugal (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (b) and
(c)). The above agreements and protocol would regulate, inter alia, the
eligibility criteria for the SMI line of credit, spell out procedures for
appraisal and commitment of funds and set the subloan terms. Under a new
system (under preparation) for fixing credit ceilings for each financial
intermediary, Banco de Portugal would give preferential treatment to inter-
mediaries who make special efforts to use selected types of credits (i.e.
exports, agriculture). The SMI credit line would be included among these
credits.



- 17 -
50.       Eligibility Criteria.  The proposed SMI line of credit would finance
the foreign exchange cost of projects eligible for IAPMEI's assistance, i.e.
firms with 5 to 400 employees (600 for multi-shift operations) and sales not
exceeding Esc. 150 million (about $3.3 million equivalent) provided that they
are in sound financial position and also meet the following criteria simul-
taneously: (a) have a technically and financially viable project which is
also economically efficient; for projects above $57,000 equivalent total cost,
efficiency would be demonstrated by a satisfactory ratio (corresponding to at
least 11 percent economic rate of return) between annual cash flow and invest-
ment cost (both adjusted to border prices); (b) have, with the proposed
investment, the capability to export directly or as input in other products at
least 20 percent of the output generated by the project, or to successfully
compete with imports. An understanding has been reached with IAPMEI that it
would make a special effort to use at least 50 percent of the funds available
under the credit line for financing export oriented industries; (c) have a
total investment cost (including permanent working capital but excluding land)
which must not exceed Esc. 30 million (about $570,000 equivalent) at end 1979
prices; in the case of enterprises proposing an expansion or modernization
project, fixed assets, excluding land, revalued to end 1979, must not exceed
Esc. 75 million (about $1.4 million equivalent) in end 1979 prices before
expansion or modernization; and (d) have an investment cost per job created
or maintained not exceeding Esc 1.25 million ($23,800 equivalent) at end 1979
prices. Exceptions for meeting this last criterion would be made for SMI
projects when more than 50 percent of the output of the enterprise may reason-
ably be expected to be exported; or, with prior agreement of the Bank and
IAPMEI, when the investment per job criterion is fulfilled if the investment
enterprise is taken together with other enterprises that sell or purchase from
the investment enterprise. In view of the limited experience in SMI project
financing in Portugal, cut-off points in the above criteria may be subject to
minor adjustments from time to time by agreement between the Government and
the Bank; any adjustments, however, would not change the SMI orientation of
the project. With regard to the application of the export criterion under
(b) above, an understanding has been reached with IAPMEI that export projec-
tions would be supported by past performance record, orders, or by a market
study satisfactory to IAPMEI. IAPMEI would monitor the achievement of export
targets, as part of its general supervision effort, and report progress
annually to the Bank. The financial intermediaries would require best efforts
from export oriented borrowers to achieve the projected export targets.
51.       Procedures for Appraisal and Commitment of Funds.  Projects with a
total investment cost of over Esc. 15 million (about $285,000 equivalent) in
end 1979 prices would require prior Bank approval, which would be based upon
appraisal reports prepared by IAPMEI or the sponsoring financial institutions,
and summary forms which IAPMEI would prepare and which would include the main
features of the project. After the Bank will have reviewed 10 such reports,
it would decide, on the basis of IAPMEI's appraisal performance, whether
IAPMEI could thereafter authorize commitment of Bank funds for these larger
projects with selective prior review of appraisal reports by the Bank for
supervision purposes. From the start, IAPNEI would authorize commitment
of Bank funds for smaller projects costing between Esc 3 million (about



- 18 -
$57,000 equivalent) and Esc 15 million (about $285,000 equivalent) in end
1979 prices, and the sponsoring financial intermediary would authorize com-
mitment of Bank funds for the smallest projects costing below Esc 3 million,
with an a posteriori control. Projects costing less than Esc 15 million
would require only schematic appraisal reports on the basis of which IAPMEI
would forward to the Bank, at periodic intervals, summary tables on projects
financed.
B. Industrial Estates
52.       The $9.5 million subsidiary loan from the Government to EPPI out
of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan, would help finance two or more
self-contained phases in each of the six industrial estates during 1979-1982
(para. 41). Disbursements on each phase would be subject to prior Bank
approval which will be based on a satisfactory appraisal by EPPI, including
a separate assessment by IAPMEI of the feasibility of EPPI's estimates of
occupancy for the particular phase, and a secured financing plan (Loan Agree-
ment, Schedule 1, para. 4(c) and EPPI Project Agreement, Section 2.01). EPPI
and the Bank have already appraised one phase of four of the industrial
estates. The main contribution to the financing plan would come from the
Government partly in the form of equity (40 percent) and partly in the form of
a subordinated long-term loan (5 percent). The commitment of the equity funds
would be a condition of disbursement of the Bank loan for this component (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(b)). Local banks, the EFTA industrial fund for
Portugal, and KfW would also contribute to the financing of the program (para.
48). Should any estate phase appear unjustified and not be replaced by
others, the unused portion of the subsidiary loan would be reallocated to the
SMI line of credit. EPPI and IAPMEI would prepare a detailed program of
collaboration by June 30, 1979 for promotion of the estates and to work out a
plan whereby at least $5 million out of the SMI line of credit would be
channelled for financing SMI on the estates (EPPI Project Agreement, Section
2.03, IAPMEI Project Agreement, Section 2.05). Export oriented enterprises
would be given priority for at least half of the occupancy on the industrial
estates (EPPI Project Agreement, Section 3.05).
53.       EPPI, an efficient institution, has successfully completed and
rented the first phase of the Braga estate. It operates as an independent
revenue earning public enterprise under the supervision of the Ministry of
Industry and Technology. It has a small competent staff of 41; in line with
the implementation of the investment program, an increase to 65 by end 1979
has been planned. Hitherto EPPI has been more concerned with technical
aspects of developing industrial estates but would direct more attention to
attracting suitable SMI to the estates in the future (EPPI Project Agreement,
Section 3.04). The main source of EPPI's present revenues is the rent it
receives from the Braga estate which started operating in 1978. While heavily
subsidized originally, EPPI's rental rates for new contracts have been in-
creased to market levels recently. In the absence of specific regulations
applicable to industrial estates EPPI's existing contracts would be subject
to general rent regulations and can only be revised every five years. Any
increase in rental rates for new contracts is subject to prior Government



- 19 -
approval. A more flexible rental policy which ensures adequate returns and
routine adjustment to inflation is needed. In this connection agreement has
been reached with the Government that in the future EPPI will determine the
initial rents for factory buildings and equipped plots ready for rental at
such levels as to ensure, on the assumption of 90 percent occupancy of the
estate in question, a net revenue of 7 percent on EPPI's actual investment
costs accountable to those facilities. To determine initial rents in this
manner, EPPI's investment costs will be revalued to the prices of the fiscal
year when factory space or a plot is first offered for rent. Rental fees thus
determined for factory buildings and plots would be revised each following
year to reflect inflation, until the facilities are rented (EPPI Project
Agreement, Section 4.04). When a contract is signed for a building or plot
the rental fees would be fixed for a three-year period and would thereafter be
adjusted every three years in line with domestic inflation. The coming into
force of the new EPPI rental policy, which has been discussed by the Govern-
ment and the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement of the proposed Bank
loan on the industrial estates component (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para.
4(b)). With this rental policy, EPPI is expected to have a positive cash flow
after debt service in 1982 and a net revenue of about $1.1 million in 1986
when substantial occupancy on all six estates will have been achieved; net
revenue would increase significantly thereafter. Prior to 1982, the Govern-
ment would meet EPPI's cash deficit (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04). In view
of the long gestation period associated with the industrial estates, these
results are satisfactory. EPPI currently has no long-term debt and its
debt/equity ratio is not expected to exceed 1.5 at any time. Its long term
debt service coverage is projected to be 1.4 by 1986 and not to fall below
that level thereafter. Agreement has been reached with EPPI that it would
maintain the above ratio and achieve the above coverage (EPPI Project Agree-
ment, Section 4.05).
C. Export Promotion
54.       Export-led growth is the center piece of the Government's economic
strategy towards overcoming the pressing short-term constraints facing the
economy, and towards preparing Portugal for European Communities (EC) member-
ship. The International Trade Center (ITC) of UNCTAD/GATT has prepared a
proposal for an integrated large scale technical cooperation program for
Portugal over the 1978-81 period, which includes a number of export promotion
and market development activities, as well as technical assistance towards
strengthening the Export Development Fund (FFE) (para. 43) and the Secretariat
of State for External Trade. The proposed Bank loan would finance priority
activities under the ITC program, mainly technical assistance for establish-
ment of joint export marketing schemes, export marketing studies for selected
product groups as well as some urgent export related activities not in the ITC
program, including a study on the system of export incentives. Multilateral
and bilateral aid agencies are financing other activities under the same pro-
gram but outside the scope of the project. A small committee would be estab-
lished to coordinate the activities proposed for financing and to approve
individual expenditures (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part D2). Conclusion of
an agreement between the Government and ITC on the execution of the Bank
financed activities would be a condition of disbursement on this component



- 20 -
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 1 para. 4(d)). An understanding has been reached
with the Government that FFE would prepare by December 31, 1979 a plan of
activities for the next five years involving, inter alia, concentration on
selected products and export markets, improvements in the export subsidy
system, exports by subcontracting, and streamlining of export development
support.
D. Assistance to Technological Institutions
55.       This component is designed to reinforce and render more effective
the institutions which provide technological support to SMI. Improved tech-
nological support would help SMI develop new products, provide quality checks,
meet export demands and increase competitiveness.  It encompasses consultant
services, training abroad, pilot plants, and urgently needed quality control
and testing equipment for three institutes operating under LNETI: (i) the
Food Industry Technology Institute; (ii) the Ceramics and Essential Oil
Departments of the Industrial Technology Institute; and (iii) the Physics
Laboratory (including Metallurgy, Electronics and Optics Sections). IAPMEI
would provide the liason between the SMI and LNETI while LNETI would super-
vise the installation of equipment. The component would be administered,
under the supervision of LNETI by a small committee, consisting of one senior
representative each from the Ministry of Industry, LNETI and IAPMEI, which
would have to approve individual expenditures (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2,
Part C2).
E. Studies
56.       Textile Study.  The textile industry, which accounts for 35 per-
cent of SMI registered with IAPMEI, is in difficulty due to the changes which
occurred after the 1974 revolution. It needs to be modernized and restruc-
tured to reinforce its viability, particularly to help it regain its export
potential. The proposed textile sector study would identify the necessary
measures and priority investments required for modernization, restructuring,
and ensuring export competitiveness; and it would help prepare a textile
industry project to support the recommended strategy. The Textile Industry
Office (GIT), a special administrative unit within the Ministry of Industry
and Technology in charge of formulating and implementing the Government's
policy towards the textile sector, would set up a Portuguese team to
work closely with foreign consultants for the implementation of the study.
57.       Technology Study.  Portugal has substantial investment in a network
of laboratories and institutes to provide management training and techno-
logical support and guidance to the industry. However, technology institu-
tions will have to rationalize their operations and adapt to the requirements
of the industry, notably SMI. The Technology Study would evaluate industrial
technology institutions, delivery systems, and incentives for promoting
transfer of technology, recommend ways and means of supporting industrial
development objectives with emphasis on exports, employment and SMI develop-
ment, suggest a medium term technology policy and identify the investments
required by this policy. LNETI, a capable organization under the Ministry of
Industry and Technology, would supervise the implementation of this study,
which is expected to lead to a future technology project.



- 21 -
Disbursement and Procurement
58.       The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan, to be disbursed over the
period September 1979-December 1983, would finance (a) 65 percent of SMI fixed
investment costs estimated to represent the full foreign exchange costs ($33
million), with procurement according to standard procedures applicable to
development finance operations which are acceptable to the Bank,(b) 20 percent
of EPPI investment costs estimated to represent full foreign exchange costs
($9.5 million) of goods and construction contracts to be procured in accordance
with EPPI's procurement procedures (local competitive bidding), (c) 100 per-
cent of the foreign expenditures on equipment for the technology institutes
(1.8 million), procured through solicitation of at least three bids or price
quotations, fellowships for staff involved with the implementation of the
technology component ($50,000), and (d) 80 percent of total expenditures for
consulting services (para. 48) for export promotion activities, technology
and textile studies ($650,000). The SMI credit line would be administered
through a special account in Banco de Portugal. The opening of this account
and the establishment of a small unit to administer it would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(d)).
Disbursements under the SMI credit line would be made against withdrawal
applications made by Banco de Portugal acting as representative of the Govern-
ment. For small subprojects (investment costs under Esc. 15 million), Banco
de Portugal would certify that the expenditure has been made and that satis-
factory documentary evidence is available for Bank review. Prior submission
of full documentation would be required for disbursement against large proj-
ects (20 percent of disbursements). Advance contracting of consultants (up
to $500,000) is required for starting the studies as early as possible since
urgently needed improvements in two crucial areas in the industrial sector
depend on these studies. Execution of the industrial estates program
according to the schedule for EPPI's investment plan would also require
advance contracting of about $2.5 million. Retroactive financing of $150,000
for the studies and $500,000 for the industrial estates is therefore recom-
mended for expenditures after December 31, 1978 on consulting services, and
on construction and equipment respectively. The Government has appointed
consultants in agreement with the Bank and UNIDO for the textile study. The
terminal date for the submission of SMI (except the smallest projects) and
EPPI projects is October 31, 1982 and the closing date of the proposed loan
is December 31, 1983.
Onlending Arrangements and Terms
59.       Onlending arrangements would be necessary for the SMI credit line
and the industrial estates components. (a) For the SMI credit line, the
Government would make a $33 million subsidiary loan to Banco de Portugal, to
be repaid according to a fixed amortization schedule reflecting the estimated
aggregate amortization schedules of SMI subloans. The subsidiary loan would
bear the same interest rate and commitment charge as the proposed Bank loan.
Banco de Portugal would use the proceeds of the subsidiary loan to refinance
eligible subloans from financial intermediaries to SMI. The SMI subloans
would have an amortization period corresponding to project life but in no case
exceeding 12 years, including up to three years grace; they would bear the
floating interest rate applicable to similar loans (currently 22.25 percent



- 22 -
per annum but subject to subsidies). Out of this, the financial intermedi-
aries would retain a 3.5 percent commission and pass on the rest to Banco de
Portugal. The latter would pay IAPMEI a one percent fee for technical ser-
vices and retain a 0.75 percent fee for itself to offset the commitment
charges under the Government subsidiary loan. After a further deduction of
7.9 percent for the interest charges on the Bank loan, the balance, or 9.1
percent, would be paid to the FGRC as a fee against the coverage of the
exchange risk on the SMI subsidiary loan. (b) For the industrial estates
component, the Government would make a $9.5 million subsidiary loan to EPPI
for 15 years, including five years grace. This longer grace period is justi-
fied by the longer gestation period associated with investments in industrial
estates. The subsidary loan would bear the same interest rate and commitment
charge as the Bank loan, and EPPI would assume the foreign exchange risk.
Onlending arrangements would be governed by subsidiary loan agreements between
the Government and Banco de Portugal and between the Government and EPPI. The
conclusion of these agreements would be a condition of effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01(a) and (b)). Refinancing arrangements between Banco
de Portugal and financial intermediaries would be governed by a protocol
(para. 49).
Benefits and Risks
60.       The prospect of Portugal becoming a competitive exporter and an
economically stable EC partner depends on the export performance of its
manufacturing industry where SMI predominate. As mentioned previously, while
manufactured exports increased in 1978, Portugal's performance was unsatis-
factory during the preceeding years; it was poor compared both to Portugal's
historical performance and to that of the least-developed countries vis-a-vis
the main trading partners of Portugal. SMI is a long neglected sector and
improvements in this area will require the administration of successive,
well-coordinated assistance packages including financial, technical and tech-
nological support. The proposed loan would-help meet the minimum immediate
needs in this area through availability of credit, industrial infrastructure
in less-developed regions, better technological support, and technical assis-
tance in project appraisal, financial management, structural change and
export promotion. The main impact of the project would be in strengthening
the institutions which assist the SMI and in improving coordination between
them. IAPMEI and EPPI would substantially increase their capacity and expe-
rience in handling new investments; LNETI would receive support and Bank tech-
nical advice during a far-reaching reorganization aimed at achieving higher
efficiency. FFE would also receive substantial assistance, both through the
acceleration of the ITC assistance program and through direct contributions
under the proposed loan. With this assistance it would plan its activities
for the next five years and concentrate on areas where Portugal has a compara-
tive advantage. Institutional development would not be restricted to the
above mentioned public agencies, but would also involve commercial banks which
would develop or increase the project identification and appraisal capabili-
ties required for term lending. A boost in term lending by commercial banks
and the technical support which will accompany this lending are expected to
contribute significantly towards re-establishing small investor confidence.



- 23 -
61.        The 300 to 400 subprojects to be financed under the SMI line of
credit would help create about 2,500 new jobs at a relatively low investment
cost ($13,000-$15,000 per job), by ensuring the long-term viability of many
SMI which are in the process of adjusting to new conditions after difficult
years. In addition, the industrial estates program would stimulate the
creation by 1985 of 15,800 jobs at a low average investment cost of about
$3,000 per job for infrastructure and buildings, and of about $8,500 per job
for the locating enterprise in 1977 prices. Under both components, exporting
industries would receive encouragement through incentives (access to credit)
and institutional support (joint marketing, export credits by FFE; technical
assistance by IAPMEI, access to space on industrial estates) to increase
competitiveness, initiate or increase exports. The establishment of indus-
trial estates would encourage regional development and help attract hitherto
non-existent financial and technical support to SMI in less-developed regions.
It would also help to alleviate the industrial concentration in the Lisbon-
Oporto coastal strip. the economic rate of return on the industrial estates
program (40.5 percent of total cost) is estimated to be 22 percent, with
variations between 15 to 25 percent for individual estates; the economic rate
of return for SMI subprojects (56.7 percent of total cost) would be at least
11 percent (for subprojects with investment cost below $57,000 equivalent,
a detailed rate of return calculation is not required; the merits of these
subprojects would be judged by the financial intermediaries according to their
standard practices).
62.        The major project specific risk relates to the overall implementa-
tion of a complex and novel project requiring the coordination of many insti-
tutions; for this reason, at the initial phases, commitments and disbursements
may be slow. This makes the effective functioning of IAPMEI a key to success.
The past performance of IAPMEI suggests that it will be able to discharge
responsibilities effectively. The expected new statute of the IAPNEI would
help to further increase the efficiency of this organization (para. 40). The
project may also face the risk that the financial intermediaries may not be
sufficiently active in promoting the line of credit or that the expected
demand for credit may not materialize. However, this risk is minimized by
offering an adequate spread and other incentives to the intermediaries
(paras. 49, 59), and by making conservative demand estimates based on a
thorough survey of SMI investment plans by IAPMEI. In addition, an under-
standing has been reached with the Government that it would create additional
incentives if needed, after consultation with the Bank. A third risk may be
inadequate demand for some of EPPI's currently planned industrial estates.
However, the provision for a thorough assessment of demand among SMI in each
region by IAPIVI prior to Bank approval of each phase of individual estates is
designed to safeguard Bank financing non-viable industrial estate projects.
All of the above risks are well worth taking in view of the central importance
in Portugal's economic recovery of restoring confidence and initia-
tive to the private sector.



- 24 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the
Bank, the draft project agreements between the Bank and IAPMEI, and between
the Bank and EPPI, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. As special conditions for the effectiveness of the proposed loan,
Banco de Portugal would open an account for the SMI line of credit and set up
a small administrative unit for the account; the Government would approve the
draft legislation to change the statutes of IAPMEI; subsidiary loan agreements
would be concluded between the Government and Banco de Portugal and the Gov-
ernment and EPPI; a protocol would be concluded between Banco de Portugal and
IAPMEI on the one side and at least three financial intermediaries on the
other (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). The revision of EPPI's rental policy,
commitment of the Government's equity contribution to EPPI and approval by
the Bank of each phase of each industrial estate would be conditions of
disbursement for the EPPI subsidiary loan; conclusion of an agreement between
the Government and ITC regarding Bank financed export activities would be a
condition of disbursement for the export promotion component (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, Para. 4(b),(c),(d)).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 7, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -
Annex I
TABLE 3A                                        Page  1  of  5
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RM.)                  PORTUGAL                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             92.1                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      41.7                                  MDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  380.0        990.0    1850.0           1898.8     1796.4       2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      382.0       754.0      983.0          1869.3      1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          9.0         9.1        9.8*
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.7          26.9      28.8             43.0       52.2.
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        98.0        99.0      106.0             81.4       27.6         55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    186.0        211.0      235.0            135.2      116.4         83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          29.2        28.5       27.3             26.2       34.8         40.0
15-64 YRS.                          62.8        61.8       62.5            63.4        56.0        55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    8.0          9.7      10.2              9.9        5.7          3.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               0.7 /f      0.1 If    0.4               0.8        1.6          2.9
URBAN                               1.4          1.8       2.4              2.2        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      24.0         21.1      19.2             19.2       27.0         31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.8         10.4      10.5              9.0        9.9          7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.6          1.5       1.5              1.3        1.9          1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        ..             38.0       19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              76.2        100.0      82.9            113.7      103.8        114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   107.0        118.0     118.0 /1         127.4      110.4        113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           77.0        85.0       85.0 a4          92.8       77.7         89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        33.0        40.0         ..             39.3       22.2         48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       5.2 /h       3.4       2.2              1.6         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.3          66.1      68.7             68.9       63.0         60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            77.5         58.0      37.9             34.5       38.2         22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             68.3       67.7         83.0
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             74.3       83.5        100.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             64.4       41.5         36.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             94.0       70.3         57.8
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             94.0       90.7         99.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             93.0       38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1180.0       1120.0     900.0            686.5     1310.8        976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1430.0       1090.0     870.0            339.0      849.2        676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             190.0        170.0     170.0            178.0      275.4        325.8
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             70.0       129.9       250.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..           1770.0      965.9        770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         10.0      12.0             15.3        18.9        18.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               3.9          3.7        ..               ..         3.9
URBAN                               4.0           ..        ..
RURAL                               3.9           ..        ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.1          0.8        ..              0.9         0.9
UR8AN                               1.0           ..        ..              0.8         0.8
RURAL                               1.1           ..        ..              1.0         1.0
ACCESS To ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              40.5         64.2        ..             57.5        59.2
URBAN                              88.5           ..        ..             99.0        78.0
RURAL                              27.4           ..        ..               ..        12.5



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SIEET
BEFERZNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PORTUGAL                                                  A
- MOST RECENT ESTIIATE)
SAIIE       SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Ab     1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb       REGION LS   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                131.0        98.0      116.0           108.0        97.6       104.1
FEMALE              129.0         96.0      94.0             99.5       87.4        120.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 20.0        57.0      49.0 /i          62.8        47.8        44.7
FEMALE               16.0         51.0        ..             63.6       42.6         46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 46.0         32.0       40.0            28.2        22.7         18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            34.0        34.0       27.0            24.9        25.4         30.6
SECONDARY                          19.0        17.0       14.0            17.3        24.9        16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        62.0         71.0        ..             88.3       96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         17.0        54.0       98.0            90.4        32.3        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         95.0       142.0      174.0           199.0       201.9        195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.0        40.0       66.0           132.5        97.9        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  63.0        84.0       91.0             97.1       70.9        108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0          3.0        4.1              6.6        4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..   4100.0 Li
PEMALE (PERCENT)                     ..           ..      25.5            32.4        17.4        26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                ..           ..      32.5 /:         32.8        38.4         25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   ..          ..      33.7 /f
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..      44.6            39.1        33.7         40.1
MALE                                   ..           ..      56.4             56.7       50.8         55.8
FEMALE                                 ..           ..      32.3            29.7        12.6         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                ..           ..       0.9              0.9        1.4          1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        56.1 Ik.l 56.3 /k.m        31.9        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         79.4  Jk,j 78.6 /k.        59.7        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         6.2 /tJ  7.3 /k.m          4.0         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        20.6 /k.1  21.4 /k.         12.9       13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..            194.9      157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         .           295.1       448.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     454.0   *       309.2       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             18.2       23.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      20.0             24.2       54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Europe;  /d   Upper Hiddle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /e  High Income  (over $2500 per capita, 1976);
/I Due to emigration, population grawth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;   aj  Av. 1969-71;
/h  1965;   /i  disrupted enrollment due to political unrest;  /f  Estimtes based on inquiry of esloyment
conducted by Institute of National Statistics;   /k   Highest 252 and 502 and lowest 252 and 502 of households;
/f 1968; /m 1973-74.
*  Revised  population  figure  for  1977  is  9.7  million.                                          SIptember. 1978
** This figure is for 1976. The estimate for 1977 is $480.0



- 27 -
Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                    Page   3  of    5
kiota: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population--eighted geometric means, excluding the extreme velnes of the irdicator and ths moo.
populated country hi each avouP. Coverage of ceuntries among the indicatoe- depends on availability ef data and in not aniform. Doe to lack of dat,
group averages foe Capital 'orplas Oil Epeeters and indicators ef access to eaten and esreta disposal., housing, in.em. distributien and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric Means without the eclusien ef extreme values.
LAND AREA (thnosand sq. kh)                                                            lepslatinn per hospital bed - total. urban. ad rural - Fopulation (total,
Total - Total surface 0-00 comprising lacd aea. and iui-,c          n                   unh   amd raral) divided by their rnupvctive nueber of hospital bed.
ARri-ultoral - Most cecent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily               availebIh is public asd prieate general and speciali-ed hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitation renters.  Hospitals are establishkents perm.sestly staffed by
lefulloc.                                                                           at lea..t ass physioiam.  Etstalishm..ats pr-vidiog priocipallp  . tadind1a
efo.ase  rea  oea  in ded.  Rarsl hospitals, h-weve, inoluie health and -ed<-
(lP PER CAPITA (        GNP) - INP yen capita autOmates at current market pri-es,        ral  centers cot pernanestly staffed by a physiciar (but by a medical as-
calcuiated ky same converstoo method as meld Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);              sistant  nue, midwife, et..) which ofEer is-patient accotnodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                            penvide a limited mange af sedical facilities.
Admissions pey hosPitaI bed - Total number of adntasioas Cc cr discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial enengy                  from hospitals divided by the snken ni heds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, satural ga. and hydre-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograma of coal eqaivalent per capita.                 HOUSING
Average sie  of hounshold (pesens per hosehoid) - tonal. urhan, and rcaal-
POPULATION AlD VITAL STATISTICS                                                          A household consists of a grasp  of individuala who share living q.a.tern
Total population, mid-year (=illions) - An of July 1; if not available.                 and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included is
avevage of ran end-year entinaceo; 1960, 1970, and 1977 dana.                         the hounehold for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitiocs of haste-
Urban populatia  (rerones of  Rocal) - Rtcit of urbha  to total popula-                hold vary.
tion; diffevent definitiocs of -rbac areas may affect comparability                Average nu=ber of persons Der room  - total, arban, and ranal - Average 0cm-
of data among countries.                                                              ber of persess per roon in all. anbhn, and rural occupied conventional
Popolation density                                                                      dwellings.,  respectively.  Dwellings enclude non-pernanent structures and
Peer sq. k. - Mid-year popultilon per square kil.o=eter (100 hectares)                 anoccupied parts.
of total on-o.                                                                     Ancess Ca electrit ity (perent of dt elliags)  - total, arban, and rnaal -
Per sq. ion. nriculture land - Computed as ahove for agricultaral land                 Coaventional dwellings naith electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                 of total, urban, and rntal dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (perceot) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 yearn), and retired  (65 years asd over) as percentagea of mid-           EDICATION
year population.                                                                  Adijoted enrollmacteasios
Pnpalation grtF.th rate (Percent) - total, and ubnan - CG=pnund annual                Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth nates of total and arbha  mid-year popalations for 1950-60,                    at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-_l, and 1970-75.                                                                 popalatiann; normally inlsdes children aged 6-11 years kut adjusted for
Crude hirch rate (per thousand) - Annual live binths per thousand of                    different lengths nf primary eduaetion; for coantrien with universal eda-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 end                  cation enrollment asy eareed 100 percent sin-e none p.pils are helow or
1970 and fine-year uverage ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate.                  above the official school age.
Crude death rtac foer thnusand) - Annual deaths per thouaand of mid-                  Secondarv schoel - total, and female - Caspnted as ahove; secondary educa-
year populatioc; ten-year aritlntetic aeecsgs ediag in 1960 and 1900                  ion requires at least four yearn at appreved primary instruction; pro-
_nd five-year average ending in 1975 for most -reent estimate.                       vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupiln
GInss reprodnetion rate - Average numhee of daughters a unman will bear                 usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence --urses ane gen-ally
in hot normal seprod-ctive period if she experienees present age-                     e-eluded.
specIfic fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,               toCational enroll. est iprercent of secondary) - Veationsl institaticns in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                      elude teohnical, industrial, or other program-  which operate iudnpeodc-tly
Family planninga- acceptons, actual (thousands) - Annual n=bker of                      or an departmenta nf serendary institutions.
acceptors of hirth-control devices under auspices of natianal family              topil-ceanhen ratio - eri=ary, and secondarv.- Total students enrolled in
planning progran.                                                                     primary and secondary levels divided by nu-bern of teachers in the co-re-
Eamily planning -uers (percent of married womee) - Percentage of                        spanding levels.
married ennen of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who -ae birth-eontrol            Adalt litner-c  rate (percent) - Literate  dolts (abla to read and weits) ac
devices to all married women in name age graup.                                       a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
POOD AND NUTRITION                                                                  CONSUhPTION
lode of  oodprodctio pe  capta (ilOlOl)-Indee sunken ef per            Passenger car  (perhouan  VpupuatiPn     aas.esgerscner coprise motor-a-r
capita annual production of all fond coameodities.                                 seating lens than eiaht persons; exlcude  aeance, hars    and milt ary
Per capita supplY of calorien (percent of requireeenss) - Copputed fro=              vehicles.
energy equivalnet of net food supplies available in country per capita            Radio receivers (per thoasand peoulatiam) - All types of reo-ivern fcr radic
per day.   vanil gbl   i sopplien  Nrc it 5 dnmstic preduttian a impsrte ies       brod .a.ts to genre1 public per thousand of pepalatios;nxM         ds ucenotd
enot,ad changen in scci.  Net anpis _srlde animal feed, seeds,                reiasis cutries and in years  hnrgitration of  .adi.vsetnwss.in
qusotities used in food proeensing, and loses in distribution.  Re-                effect; date for recent years may not be canparakbe since most countries
qauremeniswerer istmated by FAO baaed ye phyniologieal needs Eor nor-              abolished licensing.
=al activIty end helIth ennside,ing environmental tempe-atune, body               TV receivers (yen thoasand populunion) - TV receivers for broadoad t to genera
weights, uge and ne distribations of population. and allowing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; emclsdes unlieenssd TV receivers inrcau-
cent for waste at household level.                                                    tries and in yearn when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Pen capita ouPpol  of proteio (gramsoPer day) - Protein content of per              Newspaper circulation (per thousand papalation) - Shews the average circula-
capita  net supfly of rood per day.  Net nupply of food in defined an                ties of 'daily general interest newsp-pep.r", defined as  periodical pshli-
above.  Requirements for all countries establiahed by USDA provide for                -ation deveted primarily to recording general sewn.  It iacnu -idred to
minimum allo.ance of 60 grana of total protein per day and 20 grams                be "daily" if it appears at leani four times a week.
of animal and plse protein., of which 10 grams should be animal proaei.           Cinema annual attendance Penrcapita per year - eased on the nab-er of tickelt
These stondarde are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                 sold daring the year, including admissions to drive-in c-nemos and nobile
23 gRa_n of animal peontin an an average for thc woeld, proposed by                  a-its.
FAO in the Thitd World Food S.rvey.
Fer capita protein supply from eninal and pulse - Prntein supply of focd f         EteLOYMENT
devived fenn animals and pulese  in gre..  per day.                               Totel labor fore (thoasands) - Economically active person., includiog arced
Child (ages 1-u) mortality rate per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                forcns and une=ployed bht exclading housewives, students, etc.  Defint-
and in age group 1-4 years. tc child-en in thiu age gr-of.                            tions to vanioas eenntsies are not co-paPsble.
Female (perent) - Female labor force an percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                Agriculture (Percent) - Labke  force in farming, forestry, hunting and fisichg
Life eacrctoucy at liuth (years-) - Average anhber of years of life                     an penntage of total labor foene.
re=nining at birth; asually fite-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,              IndusEty (percent) - Labor force in mining, conatructito, man-facturi-g and
and 1975.                                                                             eleoc-tiity, cater and  ean as percentage of votal lahoe foce.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under               Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, aad
one year of age pen thousand live birhts.                                             eesle labor force at percertages of their respective populations
Acrens to su  e waten  mnrcant cc pepulesien) - tetal, urban, and rueal -               Tsese are ILca adjanred parntiip-yion races reflecting ace-sec
N-ober of people (total, urban, and rutal) with reaesnable access to                  strur__re of the poplultics, and onIg tine tcend.
nafe water nupply (inclade- treated surface waters on untreated but                Econneic dependency resti  - Ratio uf popalatioc under 15 avd b5 atd over so
uncontaminated water sach an that frem protected borehol-s, springs,                  the labkr for-e in age group of 15-64 7ea-s.
and saoatcry aello) us percentages of thei mespeonive ppoplations.
In an arban area a public fountain or standpost lated not mare                   INCOMn DISTRIBUTION
thas 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                Percentage of private ineome (both in rash and kind) teceived by richest 5
sonable -ccesn of that inane.   t raral areaa eaasonable acces would                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and po-rest 40 percent
imply thut th: housecife or mrmbers of the household do aot have to                   of houneholds.
spend a disproportionate part of tha day in fetchiag the family's
cat er needi.                                                                     POVERTY TARGFT GROtPS
Accets to eacreta disposal Eceronet of copulation) - total, arban, and               Esti=ated absolute yensY income level (f1) pee caPita) - urban and roral -
rural - Nanber of people (total, urban, and rural) setemd by eaceeta                    Absolute poverty income level is that iscome level blow whih             -in1
dip_sal as perrentages of their resp-tti-e populationn.  tEeta                         utrit .enal.py  dequate diet plus essenti      o-od require e    is n
disposal may Inclode the collecutin and disposal, with  or without                    affordabi.r
trest=ent, of hkaan excreta and waste-water by water-bone systems                 Eltlmated relative eovnntv ineome level (Oil oar capita) - crban cod rural -
on thy use of pit pFivien  nd sitlar installations.                                  Relative poverty innome level is that income level less than one-third
Population cer physician - 7fpulation divided kp nuyebr ef practicing                   pee capita personal income of the country.
phys-ci-nn qualified from a nedicnl sehool ast univsiny level.                      ascinated coculoilo helow poverty income level (percent) - unhao and natal
Population ten  nursing person - Population divided by nu=ber of                        Percent of population (ubnan snd rural) whe ave either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nases, and                      "relanive pOOr" whichever is greater.
aiscant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Ditvsion
Economic Analysts and Projectioma Oe-arcsroc



- 28 -
Annex I
Page 4 at S
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMET DATA
(A-sats in Millions of US Dollar)
Astual                             Enti-at.d
1973          1974          195           1976          1977          1978          1974      1975     1976      19.77    1978         1973. P197.5t 1977    1978
NA_TION-ALCCOUNTS                                    Ana    osa  1975 Price  nod ExhneRte of $1   Ens. 25.551                                       Annua  Groth Rote                          As Pe n  of cDI'
Gros  D-netia Pradat                               15,233        15,340         14,773        16,117        17,020        17,667          0.7      53.7      9.1       5.6      3.8         96.8  100.1  100.4  100.8
Colas iron To-   of Tr-dr                              306           3805          -             104           -77          -137                                                             3.2    -       -0.4   -0.8
Gras  D-sotia Insan                                13,759         15,725        14,775        16,0115       18,955        17,550         -0.1      -6.1      8.4       5.9      3.4        100.0  100.0  100.7  100.0
Iprs((sal. NFS)                                 6,170         6,464         4,758         0,067         6,286         6,195          4.8    -26.7      17.5      13.1     -1.6         39.2   32.5    07.11  35.3
isora   RaI. NWO)                              3.962          3.340         2,899         303j          3 240         3.505        415.7    :15.2       4.8       6.6      8.8         25.1   19.6   19.1    20.0
ERsor-  Gap                                         2,208         3,124          1,859         2,529         5,051         2,690                                                            14.1   12.0   10.0    15.3
Coa-aptilo  Enp-nditur-A1                          12,723        14,032         14.203        15,503        16,001        16,455         18.5       1.2      9.1     373        2.6         80.9    96.1   94.5   95.7
1--vostoa  Eaposdit-r  (i-1. Stoabs)                4,718         4,452          2,409         5,143         4,010         5,924         -6.1   -45.7       30.5     20.8      -5.1         30.0   16.3   23.9    22.4
Da-otis SavIgn61                                    2,510         1,508            570           614           999         1,234        :47.9   -56.4        7.7     62.7      25.5         155.9    5.9     5.       7.5
aia-l 0an10g5                                      4,055         2,620         1,595         1,465          2,054                       3  50.4   -39.2   -8.0    40.2         ..         25.8   10.8    12.1
MROCHANDISE T.RADE                                                     Annua   Data at Current  ebi-0                                                                                          As Prr--t of Tate1
C.piali goads                                        621           761           565           607           693          ..20.5   14.5   14.0
Irtrn-diato goads                                 1,769         2,635         2,185         2,431         3,043           ..58.4    06.1   61.3
n-la and rlnltad  astrln.le                         105           575            611           696           743          ..6.0   16.0   05.0
Conss,sai   ads458                                                 677           502           595           485          ..15.1   15.4                                                                    9.7   __
Total Mlaro.  In.parlts  (ali.f.)                 5,051         4,640         5,893         4,529         4,964         5,300                                                           100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agr--istol praduots                                 347           369           324            312           554          ..18.8    16.0   14.5
food and Cork Pr-duot                               223           366           306            351           564          ..14.8    15.8    17.9
Toals   clothing & foatanar                         560           684           577            533           602          ..30.4    29.0    29.6
Muahi-oyn  tranport aquipn-t                        243           290           254            230           301          ..13.2   13.1   14.8
Other                                              _420           569           424            396           426          ..22.8   24.5   21.2   __
T-1o  M-rh. Eaports  (f.a.b.)                     1,843         2,278         1,933         1,822         2,022         2,457                                                           100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
MERCHlANDISE TRIADE 0IND1CE0                                                       19715   100
Eap-r  Priso  Indro                                  80           103           100             90           94            102
I.pors Prino Index                                   61            87           100             95           97            106
Gonn  of Trado Indon                                131           118            100            03           97             9
fapo-  Vol1-c loden                                 110           114           t00           103          ill             120
VALUE 40010 BY 1OCT01                                 (Annua  Data at1975 PIls an-d Enahana  Rota of $1   E ns  25.55)
goAulaa2,231                                                    2,189         2,131         2,1163        1,$947=        2,044         -1.8     -2.2       1.5   -00         5.5         16.2    15.9   12.4   12.8
lodartrn                             ~~~~~~       ~~~~~6,080  6,323  0,731      5,9708         ,0           6,885          4.0    -9.3        4.3     104        43         4.`4.             20     4.
Sorniass    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~5,1                        5.462          5.348         6.423         6J846         7.051          0.0      1.6      15.8      6.6       3.0        39.3    41.4   44.5   4.4.1
Total                                            13,750        13,973        13,410        14,064        15,394        15,978           1.8    -4.0        8.6      3.7      3.8T       100.0  100.0  100.0  150.7
1975   1976    1977    1070
PLaLIC 700AN00                                                                  Carrest Prlars                                                                                          Ar P-r.e.t of 007/Markt Prices
Carroasroseipta                                ~~~~~~        ~~~~~1,657  1,056  2,256     2,456         2,991                   10.8     22.9       8.0     21.8         12.4    14.3   14.       16.
Carrena enpondlanrer                           1,740         2,493          2,901         2,008         3,484                  43.3      16.4      5.2     19.0          16.9   10.3    17.6     0.
tha Stoma                                                       -03          -657          -645          -432          -493                                                             4.5     4.0     2.6      2.7
Baan-   of A,,tanorsa   F-sdr and
sc--                                            ~~~          ~~~~~~~~~55  278  89         324           142                                                             1.9     0.6     1.9    8.8
Currat Dofjo it of Central Govt.                                  -28          -379           -556          -128          -351                                                            2.6      3.5    0.0      0.0
B.alansa o  La-al   aarnns91                                                    106             16            18            49                                                            0.7     5.1      0.1     0.3
Balanno of Soalal Oxoarity System                ~~~-12         -94          -327          -0~12          -14                                                             0.6     2.1     0.7
Cartns- fIitof Public Orator5                                                   -367          -942          -22           -316                                                             2.5     05      1.3     1.7
Capital Enp-adistare057                                                          642           204    ,   1,040          1, 042                 40.3      22.1     32.7      0.2          4.3      5.0     6.3     5.0
Onora1 I6fiolt                                                   -327          -681        -1,610        -1,188        -1,587                                                             4.6   10.2       7.0     8.3
LA000008000.00SOTIIT PIEWOOKER-                                       OA   ACsFRE                                              VALUE ADDED PER 0011D17   RCS00  EXCHANGE1 RATE 01 - Era  25.55)
in Thonsands            Pe-et of Tatni             Ans.al                      in US Dolinrs            Percen.t of An-sea             A-erexe RA-a   Groth fate
1074          1977          1974          1977         Goerrh Ants                  1974      1837              1974      1977                        1974_77
Agrli-lturo                                      1,300         1,219          54.5          32.2             -2.1                    1,684    1,097                  45        39                          -1.8
I'dasry1,387                                                   1,276          34.7          33.7             -0.8                    4,837    5,173                 130      127                            2.3
Sriass                                           1.160         1.291~         30.9          54.1              5.8                    4.709    5,303                 127      150                            4.1
Total                                            3,787         3,786         100.0         100.0              0.2                    3,709   4,066                  100      100                            3.1
a!Stati-tinal dinarepu...y is ixeladed in the soonuaption data.
b/  1ooudor sakern' reit t-ecen
c!  Total employed labor farc   eusladiag srker  abroad and usnrployod.
d/   sisotos
O Enhungo Eater 1923:  51 -Era  24.67; 1074:  71 -  25.408; 1973:  51   Ira. 25.53; 1928: 51 = Era  30.23; 1977:  51 - ins. 38.2779; 1978:  51    Ee.. 43
Negligible



- 29 -
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Amousts In Milli.os of U.S. Dollars at Current Prices)
Actual                           Estinated
1973         1974         1975          1976         1977          1978
15886110 OP BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
Etports (F.o.B.)                              1,843         2,278        1,935         1,823        2,027        2,437
Innerts (F.O4.B.)                             2.745         4.277        3.605         3.932        4,533        4.833
Trade Balance (X-} '                            -902       -1,989       -1,670       -2,109        -2,506       -2,396
Net Non Factor  Services                          67          -74         -169            26           52          195
Tourism RecciPts (Gross)                     (550)         (513)        (360)         (332)        (403)        (583)
Resource Balance                                -835       -2,063       -1,839       -2,083        -2,454       -2,201
Net Investment Incone-                            86          129          -14          -133         -179         -327
Net Transfers_/                               1,097         1,111        1,037           972        1,134        1,585
eoonren nn C,,,-s=net sr,.n,t                    348         -823         -817       -1.244        -_1499         -943
Direct Foreige Investment                        110          109          122            75           57
Public MLT Loans
Disbursements                                 158           153          231           249          387
A      -orti-ation                             74            67           77            68           93
Net Disbursenents                                 84           86          154           181          294
Other MLT Loans
Net Disbursenents                             ..            ..           ..            .            213
Sheet-Tern Capital and Errors and
Onissions                                     135           -82          -89          206
Other Capital (N.E.I.)                         -332           156          -58           641        1,046
Changes ic Official Liquid
FPreigo Exchange Reserves
( - = Increase)                            -345          554          688           141         -111
Official Reserves
iceon End of YearS!                         2,813         2,292        1,535        1,385         1,450
Of Which:  Gold                             1,149        1,181         1,137        1,125         1,025
-oreige Enchange                1,633        1,079           391          250          361
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                                         DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE            1973    1974    1975    1976          1977
Official Grants & Grant-like                     -            _               3                       _         . Public Debt Outstanding
And Disbursed                  609      723      826   1,005       1,304
Public M&LT Loann
IBRD                                                                                   36            i4        Interest vs Public Debt           24       22       35       38         56
IDA                                           -             -            -            -             -          Repaynentn on Public Debt         74       68       78       67         93
Other Multilateral                            _             -            _            126            88        Total Public Debt Service         98        90     113      105        149
Goves-nents                                   -              20           45            96          113        Other MALT Debt Service           . .          ..      ..              332
Suppliers                                      28            27           35           48            39        Total M&LT Debt Service           ..       ..      .4. 4I
Financial Markets                              23           413           83          152           121
Public Leans n.e.i.                           -            _             _            _             _          BURDEN ON EXPORT. NON FACTOR
Tctal Public MALT Lons                           51          460          163          458           435        SERVICES AND WORKERS
REMSITTANCES (%)7
Public Debt Sernice            2.4      2.0      2.9      2.9        3.7
Total MALT Debt Service        ..       .         .       ..        11.9
Actual Debt Ogustanding On Dec. 31, 1977
EXTEBNAL DEBT                                                 Disbursed Only                    Pet                Average Teens of Public Debt
I0RD                                                              32                            2.4
IDA                                                               -                             -                  Interest as 70 Prior Year
Other Multi-laternl                                              163                           12.5                  D04D                         4.8      3.6      4.8      4.6         5.6
Goverenents                                                      321                           24.6                Anort. as 7 Pricr Year
Suppli-es                                                        388                           29.8                  D4OD                        14.9    11.2    10.8        8.1        9.3
Fitancial Markets                                                400                           30.7
Public Debt  n-..,                                                                              -                IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed   45.2    42.2    39.0    35.6             32.2
Total Public M&LT Debt                                         1,304                          100.0              IBRD DO&D as '4 Public
Debt Out. & Disbursed          7.4      5.4      4.7      3.5        2.5
IBRD Debt Service as 7
Public Debt Service            6.3      6.9      5.6      5.8        4.7
a   Largely iaterest payments.
b/ Largely workers' renittances.
c/ Gold is valued at official prices.
dl  Debt service as a ratio  of earnings fron enports, son factor services and
workers' renittaones.
Not available                                                                                                                                 Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regian
Asril 19. 1979



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of March 31, 1979)
Amount (less cancellation)
Loan No.   Year          Borrower        Purpose         Bank            Undisbursed
Five loans for power development fully disbursed    57.5                       -
1301        1976    Electricidade de
Portugal            Power           36.0                 30.6
1334        1976    Republic of
Portugal            Highways        24.0                 22.1
1432        1977    Banco de Fomento   Development
Nacional            Finance         50.0                 43.9
1541        1978    Republic of          Water
Portugal            Supply          40.0                40.0
1559        1978    Republic of
Portugal            Education       21.0                 21.0
1603        1978    Republic of          Agricultural
Portugal            Credit          70.0                 70.0 /a
1649       1979    Quimica de            Fertilizer
Portugal, E.P.      Moderniza-
tion           58.0                 58.0 /a
TOTAL                                      356.5 /c             285.6
of which has been repaid                   29.2
TOTAL now outstanding                      327.3
Amount sold                          2.6
of which has been repaid            2.1       .5
TOTAL now held by Bank /b                  326.8
TOTAL undisbursed                                               285.6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1979)
None.
/a   Not yet effective.
lb   Prior to exchange adjustment.
/c   In addition a $40 million loan for a Second Highway Project was approved
in May, 1979.



- 31 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1301 - Sixth Power Project; $36.0 Million Loan of September 24, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
While the loan is now fully committed project completion is expected
to be delayed more than one year because of organizational changes in the
Power Authority (EDP), revisions in the Project scope and in the list of
goods. These factors delayed procurement under the loan, and the start of
significant disbursements. EDP is being reorganized with emphasis on decen-
tralizing management and merging municipal and small private electricity
undertakings with EDP. Mergers are expected to be completed by 1981. After a
poor year in 1976 owing to the bad hydrological conditions, EDP's earnings in
1977 were better. In 1978, EDP generated only 4 percent internal cash, in
spite of a 50 percent increase in tariffs, owing to large increases in the
interest rates. EDP estimates that it will be able to generate 18 percent
cash in 1979 and reach a self-financing level of 30 percent in 1980.
Loan No. 1334 - Highways I; $24.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1977; Effective-
ness Date: July 8, 1977; Closing Date: July 31, 1980.
Road rehabilitation is on schedule, but other project items are
behind schedule. The Government's decision to postpone bidding until the
effectiveness of the loan resulted in a 12-month delay in purchasing highway
maintenance and workshop equipment. Delays in land acquisition (which is now
completed) has caused an 18-month delay in the construction of the Covilha
bypass road; the contract for this road has now been awarded. The railways
study and the transport master plan are also 18 months behind schedule due
to delays in the selection of consultants. Selection is now completed and
work is progressing.
Loan No. 1432 - Development Finance Company Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
December 19, 1977; Effectiveness Date: March 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
While loan signing was delayed due to legal questions raised by the
Attorney General's office, it is expected that project implementation will
catch up with appraisal estimates. Approximately half the loan proceeds were
committed, as of April 15, 1979.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan 1541 - Lisbon Region Water Supply Project; $40.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1978; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The contract for the Castelo do Bode pipeline (about $33 million)
has been awarded. Works are expected to proceed without delay.
Loan 1559 - Education Project; $21.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: September 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Consultant architects for all project institutions, including
management training centers, have been selected and have started work.  All
sites for project institutions have been or are being acquired. In general,
overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan 1603 - Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Project; $70 Million Loan of
September 28, 1978; Effectiveness Date: (not effective); Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The staffing of the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (IFADAP)
is practically completed. Consultants have been selected for the groundwater
survey, and for the fish stock assessment survey; contract negotiations are
underway.
Loan 1649 - Fertilizer Modernization Project; $58 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effectiveness Date: (not effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The selection of engineering consultants is underway.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to                About 7 months from
prepare the project:                       November 1977 to June 1978.
(b)  The agencies which have prepared            Institute for Support to Small-
the project:                                 and Medium-Size Industrial
Enterprises (IAPNEI)
Public Enterprise for Industrial
Estates (EPPI)
National Laboratory for Industrial
Engineering and Technology
(LNETI)
Banco de Portugal
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                      November 18, 1977
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                                   June 26, 1978
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:  April 11, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              October, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
No specific action.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) For effectiveness:
*                 (i)  Government approval of draft legislation amending IAPMEI's statutes
(para. 40).
(ii) Signing by at least three financial intermediaries accounting for
at least 40 percent of the total assets of the 12 intermediaries
involved (as of December 31, 1977) of a protocol acceptable to the
Bank (para. 49);
(iii) Opening of a special account in Banco de Portugal for the purpose of
the SMI line of credit with a small unit to administer this account
(para. 58);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iv) Subsidiary loan agreements to be concluded between the Government
and Banco de Portugal and between the Government and EPPI (para.
59).
(b)  For disbursement of the EPPI subsidiary loan:  a change in EPPI's
rental policy, commitment of the government's equity contribution
to EPPI, and Bank approval of each phase of each estate (para. 52, 53).
For disbursement on the export promotion component: conclusion of
an agreement between the Government and ITC (para. 54).
(c)  Other conditions spelled out in the Loan Agreement with the
Government and in the Project Agreements with EPPI and IAPMEI:
(i)  Government to consult with the Bank if the ten years maximum
amortization period on commercial loans is to be reduced
(para. 36).
(ii) Effectiveness by December 31, 1979 of a revised statute for
IAPMEI acceptable to the Bank (para. 40).
(iii)  EPPI and IAPMEI to prepare a detailed program of collaboration
by June 30, 1979; EPPI to increase promotion and marketing
activities, to give priority to export oriented enterprises
(paras. 52, 53).
(iv) Government to appoint a small committee and a suitable counter-
part team, to implement ITC's technical assistance program to
FFE (para. 54).



I BRD 14024
-7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Iv v -4 0  JW V 7 d V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 II
t  <                                        N                           v               dN             S            _              'I NV7J
J                                                                                                                       t  N    o w    '   \r E   C   \  i   H ;) | a L X %, )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O ~ R R R  7



