Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY  F                    vLECto    
Report No.2312-PO
PORTUGAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 24, 1979
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PORTUGAL
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1975                  1 US Dollar , 25.553 Escudos
1 Escudo    = .039 US Dollar
1976                  1 US Dollar = 30.223 Escudos
1 Escudo    = .033 US Dollar
1977                  1 US Dollar = 38.227 Escudos
1 Escudo    = .026 US Dollar
1978 (July)           1 US Dollar = 45.548 Escudos
1 Escudo    = .022 US Dollar
BFN             Banco de Fomento Nacional
CGD            Caixa Geral de Depositos
CIFRE           Interministerial Commission for Financing Expatriates
COSEC           Companhia de Seguro de Creditos
EEC             European Economic Community
EFTA            European Free Trade Association
EPPI            Empresa Publica de Parques Industriais
FFE             Fundo de Fomento de Exportacao
FGRC            Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund
GIT             Gabinete Industria Textil
IAPMEI          Instituto de Apoio as Pequenas e Medias Empresas Industriais
LNETI           Laboratorio Nacional de Engenharia e Technologia Industrial
SMI             Small and Medium Scale Industrial Enterprises



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY IN PORTUGAL ....                .........       1
Introduction ..1.......................................... 
Economic Setting                  .................................. .....     1
Industrial Development  ......            ............................         2
Small and Medium Scale Industry .........................                      4
Industrial Policies  .....................................                     7
II.    FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO SMI .............................                       8
The Financial System ......           ......................                   8
The Financial Intermediaries and SMI Financing ........             ..        11
The Institute for Assistance to Small and Medium
Enterprises  (IAPMEI)  ................       ..     ................       16
Equity  Financing and SMI ..............          ..     ...............      20
III.    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMI ........                 .....................     20
Technical Assistance Role of IAPMEI .....................                     21
LNETI and Mechanisms for Technological Assistance to
SMI ...................................................                     22
The Export Development Fund and Export Promotion
Policies        ........................      ......................        23
IV.    INDUSTRIAL ESTATES PROGRAM  ..............         ..      ..............      26
Introduction ...........................................................      26
Origin and Purpose of the Program .......................                     26
Services Included in Industrial Estates  ....... .. ........                  26
a                       Program of Construction of the Estates ......                ............     27
Investment Cost  ....... ..............            ....................       27
Financing Plan ....... ...............             ....................       29
Rental Policy ....... ...............             .....................       29
Rental Differentials and Government Incentives for
Regional Development                         ..                             30
Financial Projections  ................        ..      .................      30
Financial Policies  ...... ..............             ..................      30
Employment Creation .... ..................             ...............       30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Portugal in July 1978. The mission was composed of Messrs. Snoy, Batzella and
Feige and Ms. Kafka.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                       PaRe No.
Export Promotion ...........  31
EPPI's Staff and Organization ...........   ................  31
Procurement ......................................................  32
Expanded  Program  . ..... . .... ........... .. .. . .     ....... ... .... .  32
V.*  THE PROJECT . . . . ................................. ............  32
Components and Objectives .....*a..........................  32
SMI Line of Credit     ........... *................*..* ..... .  34
Industrial Estates Component ....      .................     41
Technical and Technological Assistance Component ........    43
Export Promotion Component ........-.............o......     46
Studies Preparing Future Projects .............. o.o.......  47
Project's Benefits and Risks ................. #...........  48
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS .......   ........................... ........  50
Supporting Tables
Table 1  - Distribution of Enterprises by Size and Industry
Table 2  - Distribution of Employment by Industry and Size of Establishment
Table 3  - Comparative Levels of Employment, Productivity and Earnings in
Manufacturing Industry, 1976
Table 4  - Maximum Interest Rates
Table 5  -  Structure of Lending Rates Established by Banco de Portugal
Table 6  - Registered Enterprises Supported by IAPMEI by Sectors and Regions
Table 7  - Investment Cost of EPPI's Industrial Estates Program (Size of
Estates)
Table 8  - Technical and Technological Assistance Programme
Table 9  - Export Promotion Component
Table 10 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Charts
Chart I  - Organization Chart of IAPMEI
Chart 2  - Organization Chart of EPPI
Map
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



PORTUGAL
APPRAISAL OF
A S,IALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I.  SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY IN PORTUGAL
Introduction
1.01       Industry was the driving force of the remarkable growth of the
Portuguese economy during the 1963-73 period. Following the troubled 1974-77
years, marked by a growing balance of payments deficit and a dramatic rise in
unemployment, industry holds again the key to the recovery of the Portuguese
economy, which will largely depend on the development of industrial exports
and the strengthening of industrial structures in preparation for Portugal's
accession to the European Economic Community (EEC). The private sector and,
within the private sector, small and medium scale industrial enterprises
(SMI), i.e. industrial enterprises employing between 5 and 400 persons and
with annual sales not exceeding US$3.3 million equivalent 1/, constitute the
backbone of Portugal's industry and account for the bulk of industrial employ-
ment and of industrial exports. Yet, it is this particular segment of the
industrial sector which is in particular need of restructuring, modernizing
and diversifying its activities to seize new opportunities in the interna-
tional markets, including those of the EEC. The proposed project aims pre-
cisely at providing financial and technical assistance to this crucial segment
of the industrial sector and at strengthening the institutional set up for
such assistance.
Economic Setting 2/
1.02       Impact of the Revolution.  Following the revolution of April 1974
Portugal's political and economic systems were radically transformed. The
colonies obtained their independence which resulted in the return of about
500,000 people and the temporary loss of important markets for Portugal's
exports. There was nationalization of the banks, insurance companies, power
companies, major transportation agencies and the large industrial groups.
Trade union activity was legalized.  Minimum wages were established and
restraints were put on the highest salary levels. Unemployment and social
security benefits were increased. There was a new relationship between man-
agement and labor, which at first resulted in indiscipline, absenteeism and
reduced productivity. The revolution created expectations of higher real
consumption, which the Government initially tried to meet through rapid
1/   See paragraph 1.11 below.
2/   An updating report on the Portuguese economy (Report No. 2214-PO) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on-September 7, 1978.



- 2 -
increases in money wages and Government transfers. As a result domestic
savings and private investment, which had sustained a high rate of growth
in the 1963-73 period, fell sharply.
1.03      Balance of Payments.  The impact of the revolution was compounded by
adverse changes in Portugal's international economic environment. The oil
price increase of November 1974 brought with it a substantial worsening of the
country's terms of trade, while the downturn in Western Europe meant the
slackening of demand for Portugal's exports, less earnings from tourism and
the levelling off of the demand for Portuguese workers. All of this placed
severe pressures on the balance of payments and turned the current account
surplus of $350 million in 1973 into a growing deficit reaching $1.5 billion
in 1977, i.e. about 9% of GDP. As Portugal obviously cannot sustain for long
deficits of this magnitude, the increase of exports has become a dominant
economic policy objective.
1.04      Unemployment.  A related consequence of the changed domestic and
international environment has been the rise in unemployment. In March 1978
about 320,000, or 7.7% of the labor force, were unemployed. Trade union pres-
sures, legislation against dismissals and Government intervention during
1974-76 prevented open unemployment from rising to even higher levels but
created widespread under-employment.
1.05      Stabilization Program.  The task that successive governments in
Portugal have faced has been one of reducing at a politically acceptable
pace private and public consumption as well as imports while a more favor-
able climate was restored to encourage savings, investment and exports. In
mid-1978, agreement was reached on a stabilization program which will attempt
to reduce the balance of payments deficit to $1 billion in the 12 months end-
ing April 1979. The program which is expected to be extended through the end
of 1979, includes restrictions on domestic credit expansion and will imply GDP
growth not exceeding 2% annually and a stagnant or decreasing domestic demand
for industrial products forcing industrial firms to seek increased export
outlets for their growth and, in some cases, survival. Besides its objective
of containing the balance of payments deficit the stabilization program aims
at buying time until confidence in the political stability of the country
develops and the country's export capability is strengthened through renewed
flows of private and public investment. Over the long term (1980-85),
and with the prospect of becoming a member of the European Economic Community
(EEC) by 1985, Portugal should be able to achieve and sustain a growth rate of
about 5.5% per annum.
Industrial Development
1.06      Industrial Performance.  The performance and the role of the manu-
facturing industry can be summarized by the following indicators:



Table 1.1
1963-73
1963    1973    1977   Growth
(%)
Value Added at constant 1973 prices
(1963=100)                                         100     250     267      10.3
Share in GDP at current prices                       30.3    34.6    35.0
Employment - in thousands                           826     868      n.a.     0.5
- percentage of total                               26.5    27.8   n.a.
Exports /1
- millions of dollars at current prices            240   1,283      n.a.    18.2
- percentage of total at current prices             57.4    68.9   n.a.
/1   Excluding wine and processed food.
The subsectoral distribution of value added and employment in manufacturing
(see Project File, item Al) shows the particular importance of metalworking,
machinery and transport equipment as well as that of textiles, clothing and
footwear. These are also the leading export subsectors.
1.07      Industrial Structure.  The remarkable performance of the 1963-73
period took place, however, within a seriously unbalanced industrial struc-
ture. Growth was concentrated in a relatively small number of large and
modern enterprises enjoying privileged access to credit and foreign tech-
nology, while the vast majority of medium and small enterprises, accounting
for up to 60% of industrial employment, were given little assistance and few
incentives to modernize and expand. The absence of incentives stemmed from
a context of artificially low wages (supported by a ban on trade-union acti-
vities), cheap raw materials and energy, restrictive industrial licensing,
protective tariffs and captive markets for Portuguese exports in the former
overseas territories. As a consequence manufacturing employment grew by only
0.5% p.a. during 1963-73 and the manufacturing sector remained highly frag-
mented (see Table 1.2).
1.08      Impact of Changes in Environment.  This unbalanced industrial
structure proved particularly vulnerable following the profound changes
of 1974-75. On the demand side, the captive markets of the colonies, which
many industrial enterprises, particularly SMI, were geared to serve, were
lost at least temporarily, while the world recession and the deterioration in
Portugal's competitive position made it particularly difficult to develop new
foreign markets. In the domestic market too there were problems. The redis-
tribution of income following the revolution meant less demand for products
geared to upper middle-class consumption while existing capacity could not
satisfy increasing demand for a number of products (particularly in food pro-
cessing) related to the needs of the lower middle class and of the displaced
persons. There were problems on the supply side of industry as well. Imme-
diately after the revolution, there was a sharp deterioration in labor rela-
tions which resulted in strikes, absenteeism, lock-outs and indiscipline in



a number of factories. It took some time for both management and labor to
recognize the need to evolve a new more mature relationship of the kind that
characterizes most advanced industrial countries. Indeed there is still
substantial way to go in this respect. With sharp rises in money wages,
controlled domestic prices and little adjustment of the exchange rate tiil
1976, industrial profits fell sharply and many firms suffered severe losses
which could only be borne by the liberal provision of credit by the banking
system. These losses could not be reduced through the retrenchment of labor
because of the very restrictive laws on dismissals. Although the recovery
of demand in 1976-77, accompanied by a relaxation of price controls and a
decrease of real wages has eased industry's most immediate problems, the long
term prospects of the industrial sector will be ensured only through a diffi-
cult restructuring process, the opening of new lines of activity and the
development of new markets.
1.09      Role of the Private Sector.  Despite the nationalization in March
1975 of the most important industrial groups involved in steel, oil refining,
chemicals, cement, shipbuilding, beer and tobacco, private firms continue to
account for about 85% of value added and 88% of employment in manufacturing
and for more than 90% of manufactured exports. The drop in profits in the
1974-76 period, combined with political uncertainties, caused private invest-
ment to come almost to a standstill. There was a marked recovery of private
investment in 1976 and 1977 but a substantial part of investment was either
for replacement of machinery or build up of inventories. The crisis of
1974-76, the expected deflationary impact of the stabilization program, and
the uncertainties about Government policies and legislation on a number of
critical issues (see para. 1.18) have dramatically hightened the entrepre-
neurs' perception of risk and they remain reluctant to increase capacity and
hire new workers. The granting by the Central Bank of interest subsidies for
loans financing priority industrial projects aims, inter alia, at compensating
this hightened perception of risk (para. 2.04).
Small and Medium Scale Industry
1.10      The distribution of manufacturing firms by number of workers for
1976/77 is as follows:



Table 1.2: DISTRIBUTION OF MANUFACTURING ENTERPRISES
BY NUMBER OF WORKERS
Number of       Number of      % Distribution   Total Number of  % Distribution
workers /1    Firms (1976)       of Firms        Workers (1977)      of Workers
5-10            4,931             33.1              41,273              5.2
11-20            3,781             25.4              58,838              7.4
21-50            3,314             22.2             107,359             13.4
51-100            1,388             9.3             100,357             12.6
101-500           1,268              8.5             235,814             29.5
501-1000             148              1.0            100,589             12.5
More than
1000                 70             0.5             154,738             19.4
Total             14,900            100.0             798,968           100.0
/1   These statistics do not cover enterprises with less than 5 workers.  The
1973 Industrial Census, however, estimated the number of such enterprises
at about 36,000.
Source: Ministry of Labor
1.11      The Portuguese authorities define small and medium industrial enter-
prises (SMI) as those employing less than 400 workers and with annual sales
not exceeding Esc. 150 million (US$3.3 million equivalent). Taking into
account only the number of workers criterion, the above table suggests that
SMI represented 97% of the manufacturing enterprises employing at least 5
workers and accounted for about 60% of manufacturing employment and an esti-
mated proportion of manufacturing value added in the range of 40-50%. The
sector by sector breakdown of firms and of employment (Tables 1 and 2) shows
the predominance of SMI in export-oriented sectors such as woolen textiles,
clothing, knitwear, footwear, wooden furniture, fish conservation and metal
products, as well as in activities where proximity to the local markets is
important such as building materials, carpentries, printing, bakeries, etc.
1.12      Labor Productivity.  Comparative data on productivity and earnings
in different sizes of enterprises are not available. The classification of
industries according to the share of SMI in total employment (Table 3) sug-
gests, however, a fairly consistent relationship between scale and average
labor productivity and between average productivity and remuneration. Indus-
tries in which SMI predominate generally get less output per worker and pay
less than is the case in large scale industry. Part of these differences are
explained by the lesser capital intensiveness of SMI.  But many of them, in
common with enterprises of similar size in other countries, also have defi-
ciencies in production, management and marketing. Differences in productivity
are also reflected in differences in labor costs between SMI industries and
large scale industries, although more militant unions in the latter group are
also a factor. As shown in Table 3, average annual remuneration per worker
in the SMI industries (except for the metal products and textile machinery



-6-
subsectors) has remained systematically below the average for the manufactur-
ing sector as a whole. Despite the substantial increases of the 1974-75
period, labor costs in the Portuguese SMI appear to remain internationally
competitive provided sufficient efforts are made towards increasing produc-
tivity, promoting exports and improving product mix and quality to meet the
changes in demand.
1.13      Investment and Technology.  The review of investment data for SMI
dominated industries (see Project File, item Al) confirms that, by and large,
such industries use substantially less capital per worker than do most large-
scale industries (with the notable exceptions of pharmaceuticals, shipbuild-
ing, and automobile assembly parts, which use relatively labor intensive
techniques).  The data indicate also a process of capital deepening in some
SMI industries (woolen textiles, saw mills, ceramics and printing) which
experienced a decline in total employment over the 1973-76 period. This
suggests that in a number of SMI with low labor productivity or where tech-
nological improvements have been overdue for a long time investments will aim
essentially at maintaining existing jobs, with little or no new job creation
for some time until a very significant rate of growth in the domestic or
foreign demand for these SMI's products is achieved.
1.14      Export Performance.  Exports represented 27% of the gross output of
manufacturing industry in 1974. The bulk of these exports came from indus-
tries composed predominantly of SMI. It is not possible to indicate the rela-
tive shares of each size group due to the lack of data. However, it seems
probable that the larger enterprises within these industries make a more
substantial contribution to exports than their share of total employment or
even of total output would indicate. Very small firms generally do not have
the financial and human resources to develop overseas markets by themselves
and the incentive structure (see paragraph 1.17) and institutional support
(paragraphs 2.32 and 3.11) has been deficient in the past in promoting their
exports. Nevertheless the analysis of SMI registered 1/ with the Institute
for the Support of Small and Medium Industrial Enterprises (IAPMEI, see
para 2.19 below) suggests that smallness of scale needs not be a barrier
to exports. One out of five IAPMEI registered SMI in the textiles and cloth-
ing industry was an exporter in 1976. Among the exporters 27% sold more than
50% of their production abroad and a further 8% exported between 30 and 50%.
Among registered shoe manufacturers, 42% were exporters of which 42% exported
more than 30% of their production. These figures apply to direct export only
and would be increased if account was taken of indirect exports through inter-
national or domestic sub-contracting or trading firms. In fact much more
should be done to encourage such indirect exports as many SMI have the quali-
ties - skilled craftsmen, low overhead and wage costs, reliability, and good
quality control - which could be harnessed to an export drive if linked
through sub-contracting or other arrangements with foreign or larger domestic
companies with the necessary technological and marketing know-how to penetrate
highly competitive international markets.
1/   SMI registered with IAPMEI in the textiles, clothing and footwear sub-
sectors account for about 60% of all SMI in these subsectors.



-7-
Industrial Policies 1/
1.15      Assistance to Private Sector Industrial Enterprises.  To achieve
the structural changes necessitated by the changed domestic and international
environment and to prepare for Portugal's accession to the EEC, the private
industrial sector, and particularly the SMI, need a strong infusion of finan-
cial and technical assistance. Such assistance should aim at increasing
productivity, upgrading product quality, diversifying production, opening up
new export markets and encouraging entrepreneurship. Existing programs and
institutions in charge of financial and technical assistance to SMIs are des-
cribed in Chapters II and III, while the industrial estates program encourag-
ing the desired regional redeployment of industry is described in Chapter IV.
The ultimate success of these programs in achieving their objectives will
largely depend on the capability of the Government to reform the incentive
structure and to improve the investment climate. These two aspects are
reviewed in the following paragraphs.
1.16      Cost Competitiveness and Incentive Structure.  Between the end of
1973 and the middle of 1977, the cost competitiveness of export industries
deteriorated by 10% to 20% as a result of a combination of sharp cost in-
creases (only partially offset by the depreciation of the escudo) and a
decline in productivity. At the same time an increasing distortion was intro-
duced in the incentive structure in favor of industries producing for the home
market and against production for exports; in 1977, taken together, the subsi-
dies received by export producers added up to, at most, 4% of their output
value while firms producing import substitutes for the home market received
protection sometimes exceeding 100% of value added. This was the result of a
generally arbitrary tariff structure inherited from the previous regime, on
which import surcharges of 30% to 60% were superimposed in 1975 and 1976.
1.17      Since the middle of 1977, the cost competitiveness of Portuguese
exports has recovered somewhat following the devaluations of the escudo in
August 1977 and May 1978, a decline in real wages of about 9% and some improve-
ment in productivity. The Government decided also in May 1978 to phase out
the 30% import surcharge, which should be completely eliminated by October 1,
1979. For the 60% import surcharge, applying mainly on luxury goods, the Gov-
ernment will be studying alternative domestic tax measures with a view to
phasing it out beginning in 1979. These measures, together with the projected
rationalization of the entire tariff structure, will progressively remove the
artificial incentives to produce for the domestic rather than for the export
market. Yet, further measures are needed to improve competitiveness and pro-
mote manufacturing exports. In particular progress is needed in the fields
of export incentives and institutional support for manufacturing exports (see
Chapter III, C below).
1/   A review of Portugal's industrial policies is contained in the Bank
Report on Manufacturing Export Industries in Portugal (Report No. 1695a-
PO, dated December 27, 1977).



-8-
1.18      Investment Climate.  Although, through a number of laws, the Gov-
ernment has gone some way towards allaying the fears of private entrepreneurs,
further progress is needed in the following critical areas:
(a)  Compensation for Nationalized Assets:  Although a framework has
been established to compensate the owners of the firms national-
ized in 1975, specific regulations necessary to permit the actual
issue of the bonds to be given in compensation has been postponed
due to the recent Government crisis; moreover long repayment
periods for these bonds and low interest rates reduce substan-
tially the real value of such compensation.
(b)  Role of the Private Sector:  Uncertainty still prevails as to
whether certain activities (e.g. investment banking which could
play a crucial role in providing equity financing for SMI) will
be open for private sector investment and as to whether indus-
trial firms nationalized indirectly (because they belonged
to the banks or industrial groups nationalized in 1975) but
involved in activities not reserved for the public sector will
be returned to the private sector. More generally, the Govern-
ment's industrial strategy has yet to recognize more explicitly
the role to be played by the private sector in increasing exports
and creating jobs.
(c)  Labor Relations:  strikes, dismissals, vacations and absences
from work, and role of workers commissions are all sensitive
areas where reasonable measures clarifying the rights and the
duties of workers and managers still need to be established.
(d)  Price and Wage Controls:  despite some relaxation over the
last two years, the existing price control administration
remains slow and bureaucratic; at the same time wage increases
agreed at the national level do not take sufficiently into
account the diverse financial situations of the specific
industrial sub-sectors. The National Council of Incomes
and Prices, established two years ago to organize a dialogue
and bring about a consensus between representatives of labor
and management at the national level, has failed to produce
so far any concrete result.
II. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO SMI
A.   The Financial System
2.01      The principal institutions of the Portuguese financial system are
Banco de Portugal (the Central Bank), ten commercial banks, Caixa Geral de



-9-
Depositos (CGD), the major savings institution, and Banco de Fomento Nacional
(BFN), the major development bank. Among the other entities in the financial
system are 20 savings banks of very minor importance, three foreign owned
commercial banks, whose activities are mostly concentrated on foreign trade
operations, t:e Sociedade Financiera Portuguesa, a development bank which
has been virtually inactive since the revolution, and a number of insurance
companies and small financial institutions. All Portuguese owned financial
institutions, with the exception of the 20 small savings banks, were national-
ized in 1975 (CGD has been since its inception a public institution). The
nationalized commercial banks nevertheless have retained a considerable degree
of financial and administrative autonomy.
2.02      Banco de Portugal.  Banco de Portugal has the usual power of central
banks, including the setting of mandatory reserve requirements and ceilings
on interest rates and on individual bank credit expansion. It finances credit
institutions through the usual rediscount facilities, with each individual
bank being attributed three rediscount ceilings to which different, and
sharply increasing rates apply. Currently, it operates a selective credit
policy through a system of interest subsidies and surcharges for specific
types of bank credit; prior to April 1977 it channelled credit to target
sectors through a scheme of preferential rediscount rates.
2.03      Interest Rates and Inflation.  The interest rate structure, which
was traditionally low before the revolution, was permitted to increase only
slowly after the revolution despite accelerating inflation (Table 2.1 below).
The six increases which took place between April 1974 and the beginning of
1978 were not able to eliminate the gap between the rates of interest and
inflation. As part of the stabilization program, a new and significant
increase in the interest rate structure was introduced in May 1978, affect-
ing all outstanding deposits and loans as interest rates are floating.
Table 2.1
Lending Rates    Term Deposit Rates    Rate of Inflation
1974 July             6.75-11.5            3.5- 9.5                 28%
December         7.75-12.5            3.5-10.5
1975 December         7.75-12.75           4.5-11.5                  20%
1976 July             8.75-13.25           4.5-11.5                  18%
1977 March           10.25-14.75           5.0-13.0                 27%
August          14.75-18.75           6.0-17.0
1978 May             18.25-22.25           8.0-21.0                  22% /a
/a Estimate
Source: Table 4
Following this increase, the current maximum rate on term loans (22.25%) is
marginally positive in real terms as the inflation rate has been declining and
was about 22% in 1978. The expected further decline in the rate of inflation



- 10 -
(to about 18% in 1979, 15% in 1980, 10% and below in 1981 and thereafter)
gives scope for lending rates to attain more significantly positive levels in
real terms. The proceeds of the proposed SMI line of credit will be onlent at
the rates applicable at the same time to domestic loans of the same maturity
and should therefore bear positive rates in real terms. The Government has
confirmed its intention to maintain interest rates at positive real levels as
inflation subsides.
2.04    Interest subsidies.  The structure of interest rates is modified by
surcharges levied on and subsidies paid to borrowers by the Central Bank 1/
depending on the purpose of the loans as outlined in Table 5. Subprojects
under the proposed SMI line of credit will be eligible for these subsidies.
These subsidies, which were established in 1977 when interest rates began
to rise and when the investment climate was unfavorable, are designed to
stimulate industrial investment, channelling it by preference to activities
with a significant impact on the balance of payments and, in the case of one
type of subsidy, on employment. Projects with an investment cost per job
created or maintained not exceeding Esc. 750,000 (US$16,000 equivalent) and
involving procurement of Portuguese goods or services in the proportion of at
least 60% are eligible for Type I interest subsidies, which decline from 10.5%
during the first year to 1.5% in the fifth year of the loan. Type I subsidies
apply to no more than 10% of industrial projects. Irrespective of their cost
per job, projects involving procurement of Portuguese goods in a proportion
of at least 50% are eligible for Type II subsidies, which decline from 5.5%
during the first year to 1.5% during the fifth year of the loan. Type II
subsidies apply to no more than 45% of all industrial projects. The impact of
these subsidies upon the effective cost of funds to typical borrowers is shown
below.
Table 2.2: REDUCTION IN THE EFFECTIVE COST OF A SUBLOAN
Term of the Loan
Subsidy                                   6 years   12 years
Type I                                      6.75%      4.75
Type II                                     4.50%      3.25
Even though the existing system of interest subsidies may have led to sub-
optimal investment decisions (to what extent is uncertain), it has undoubtedly
mitigated the adverse psychological impact of the large increases in interest
rates on SMI investment decisions. The Government has assured the Bank of its
intention to maintain the net cost of long-term loans at a positive level in
real terms. When decreases in nominal interest rates are made possible by the
projected reduction of inflation in 1979 and subsequent years, it is expected
that the Government will also decrease in parallel the interest subsidies.
1/   Funds to pay such subsidies originate from Central Bank profits from
rediscount operations as well as from various special funds.



- 11 -
2.05       The Banco de Portugal is presently reviewing the interest subsidies
scheme and a revision of the system will be implemented soon. For smaller
investment projects 1/, the present eligibility criteria for interest subsi-
dies would be amended in view of giving more emphasis to the project's overall
balance of payments impact (e.g. as measured by the ratio between the foreign
exchange cost of the investment project and the annual net foreign exchange
earnings or savings to be achieved). For larger 1/ projects, subsidies would
not be related any more to interest payments but to labor costs and to net
balance of payments earnings or savings.  The above proposed changes go in the
right direction since they tend to remove the possible distortion in the cost
of capital involved in the present system. The Government has confirmed its
intention to review with the Bank at periodic intervals the interest rates
situation, including the system of interest subsidies.
2.06       Foreign Exchange Risk.  The Central Bank must authorize all foreign
borrowings which it does with a minimum of formalities. With a few excep-
tions, all foreign exchange transactions must also be channelled through the
Central Bank. Investors are required to finance with foreign borrowings (or
foreign lines of credit through financial intermediaries) 80% of the cost of
foreign equipment purchases exceeding Esc. 12 million (US$260,000 equivalent).
To reduce the adverse impact on industrial investment of the exchange risk
associated with foreign borrowings in a context of high uncertainty on the
timing and magnitude of the future depreciation of the escudo, the Government
established in February 1977 the Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund (FGRC), under
the supervision of the Central Bank. The FGRC covers the exchange risk
associated with selected foreign borrowings financing projects of national
interest against payment of a fee reflecting the difference between the
domestic (floating) long term interest rate and the rate on the foreign
borrowings after deduction of a commission for the intervening Portuguese
financial intermediary. This fee is adequate to ensure that the FGRC is
basically self-sufficient and not excessively exposed to losses resulting from
possible future depreciation of the escudo. This mechanism which will apply
to subloans under the proposed SMI line of credit (para 5.13) applies already
to subloans made by BFN with the proceeds of the Bank loan approved in 1977
and of the EIB loans approved in 1976 and 1977. It appears particularly
appropriate in the case of the proposed SMI line of credit, given the SMI lack
of financial sophistication and their aversion to the exchange risk.
B.   The Financial Intermediaries and SMI Financing
2.07       The commercial banks in particular, and to a lesser extent CGD and
BFN, are the major source of industrial and SMI financing. The summary table
2.2 and the Project File (item A2) provide relevant information on these
institutions. Until recently, bank liquidity in general does not appear to
have been a major constraint to industrial investment; credit policy following
1/   The cut-off point between smaller and larger projects currently envisaged
by the Banco de Portugal is between Esc. 30 million and Esc. 40 million
in 1979 prices.



Table 2.2                                                                                 -  11  -
SUMMARY TABLE ON COMMERCIAL BANKS, CGD AND BEN
(as of 12/31/77)
Term Credit to                                             Cumalative Asount of
Term Deposits                Term Credit               Manufacturing as                                 I/        Fixed Capital Financing
Total Assets            Branches         as % of Total Deposits          'o0 'anufactoriog       7, of Total Teom  Credit       Net Toterest Margino        Granted witF LAfMEI's Gsacantee
(millions escodos)       (as of 7/78)                                      (silliosn  eocodos)                                                                        (milions escudos)
Caixa Geral ds Depositos (CGD)                            142,053                 130                     50.8                         na.                         0.0.                         2.0                            398
Banco de Fomento Naci-sal (BFN)                            41,524                   20                    96.0                        5,361                        54.3                         3.7                            325
Banco Partuguas Bo Atlantios                               79,299                   75                     57.0                       1,114                        43.9                         2.8                             25
Banco Espirito lanto E Comercial
de Lisbosa                                               70,974                   73                    50.0                          945                        41,7                         4.0                             37
Banco Necional Ultramarino                                 64,142                  111                     52.0                         941                        50.7                         4.2                             27
Banco Pinto & Sotto Mayor                                  62,531                   64                    59.6                          844                        38.7                         3.7                            131
Banco Totta & Acores                                       51,940                   66                    57.0                           98                        10.4                         2.8                             27
Banco Borges & Irmao                                       49,790                   47                    64.3                        1,529                        45.0                         1.1                             84
Banco FPnsecas & Barsay                                    36,811                   93                    49.4                          350                        15.1                          3.0                             13
Credits Predial Fortugues                                  23,284                   12                    66.2                          117                         2.2                         3.3                             70
Usiao De Bassos Portugueses                                16,434                   87                    64.2                          320                        23,6                          2.5                            64
TOTAL                                                     638,982                  758                    57.2                       11,619                        39.0                        2.93                          1,201
1/ as % of average total deposits
2/ weighted average interest margin (weighted by share of total assets)
Note: Lcladed from  this list is Banco  icaeles.e, a  minor bank with 6 branches in the Acorns.
Soarce: Tables 10-15, Annex I



- 12 -
the revolution was expansionary and bank liquidity since 1976 high. However,
credit policy and bank liquidity have been tightened beginning in 1977 and
particularly since the IMF stabilization program of May 1978; the latter
includes a commitment to reduce the rate of increase of domestic credit. This
reduction is to be achieved by mandatory ceilings on individual banks, reduc-
tions in the individual banks' rediscount ceilings with the Central Bank,
higher interest rates, higher reserve requirements and the limitation of
external borrowing to the financing of productive investment projects.
2.08      Rather than from liquidity shortages, financial constraints to
industrial investment have come in the last few years from the fact that
financial institutions, other than BFN, have been ill-equipped to promote
industrial investment projects, and that terms offered by commercial banks on
their loans have been inadequate. SMI have confronted the following special
problems in securing financing: (i) insufficient equity, (ii) a lack of suit-
able collateral, and (iii) hesitancy on the part of the financial intermedia-
ries to lend to unknown entities.
2.09      The Role of Commercial Banks in Lending to SMI.  The ten national-
ized commercial banks have been and remain the best conduit of credit to SMI.
They are the most significant group among the Portuguese financial institu-
tions, with 68% of the banking system's I/ assets, and 75% of its deposits
and have an extensive network of 608 branches throughout the country. They
have relatively more decentralization in decision making than other banking
institutions. Despite past limitations on term lending (see para. 2.10) the
commercial banks as a group have on average directed 4 and 3 times as much
term credit to manufacturing as CGD and BFN respectively.
2.10      The commercial banks in the past, however, have not met adequately
the needs of SMI. This largely has been a function of their concentration on
short term operations, primarily in the form of discounted commercial paper,
for which they emphasized the availability of real and personal guarantees,
thereby disqualifying many SMI. Prior to August 1977 commercial banks were not
permitted to lend at terms greater than one year except under special condi-
tions and then only for up to 5 years. Consequently, in the period 1974-1977
term credit represented no more than 5% of credit granted 2/. The banks prin-
cipal means of meeting term credit needs was through roll over arrangements of
discounted commercial paper (between 30-60% of this paper was regularly rolled
over) which were reserved for prime customers.
2.11      Legislation introduced in August 1977 permits banks to extend loans
with maturities of up to ten years. The Government has confirmed that this
legislation will not be modified without prior Bank consultation. This
legislation moreover stipulates that commercial banks must devote part of the
annual increase of their time deposits of over 181 days to medium and long
term credit operations. This may be achieved entirely through direct credit
1/ Including all commercial banks, savings banks and BFN.
2/   A sample of banks indicates that between 1975 and 1977 an average of only
58% of term credit outstanding was for terms of more than 2 years with
only 4.2% in 1975, 6.9% in 1976 and 16.6% in 1977 for more than 7 years.



- 13 -
operations; alternatively the banks may fulfill this requirement indirectly
by channelling resources to BFN in the form of bonds or deposits yielding a
spread of only 1% 1/. An additional support for term lending is constituted
since April 1977 by rediscount facilities offered by CGD for medium term
credit at 1 and 3% (respectively for the first and second year of their
duration) above the basic rediscount rate of Banco de Portugal. These
are a supplement to the commercial banks traditional resources, which are
essentially less than one year desposits (including workers remittances for
banks with branches or representation abroad) and rediscounts with Banco de
Portugal (available for loans of all durations).
2.12      Authorities recognize that in order to promote term lending there is
a need to develop project appraisal capability and have therefore established
a working group to standardize criteria in the banking system for the economic
and social evaluation of investment projects. The purpose is also to provide
the Government and Banco de Portugal with objective criteria for the priority
allocation of credit, and the administration of a revised system of interest
subsidies (see para. 2.05). In future, the Government intends to set up a
project preparation and appraisal unit within the Ministry of Planning 2/.
2.13     The new legislation greatly increases the commercial banks' potential
to meet the needs of SMI. For the first time all banks have established proj-
ect appraisal teams capable of evaluating the risks in term lending. However,
realization of the commercial banking systems' potential in lending to SMI
will require further decentralization of decision making and appraisal capab-
ility, to reach SMI scattered throughout the country, with the large majority
of SMI requests not exceeding Esc. 5 million (US$110,000 equivalent) 3!.
Indeed, although all the banks now have appraisal departments, most of them
so far have concentrated their project appraisal capability in their Lisbon
and Oporto offices. These factors contribute to the banks' traditional
1/   Regulation of July 1978 stipulates that for 1978 the banks must channel
35% of the increase in their time deposits of over 181 days to term
credit operations. Part of this requirement may be fulfilled indirectly
by using up to 15% of the monthly increase in their over 181 day deposits
to buy BFN 5 year bonds.
2/   The Group is enlisting Bank technical assistance and EDI support for
training courses in Portugal both for members of the proposed project
unit and for commercial bank appraisal staff. Although no arrangements
have been finalized, EDI is studying the proposal and it is expected that
a continuing dialogue will be maintained between the Bank and the working
group in Portugal.
3/   One bank provided information indicating that only 22% of investment
credit operations with SMI were for loans of above Esc. 5 million, nearly
one third were for loans of Esc. 2 million or above and 56% for loans of
Esc. 1 million or above.



- 14 -
tendency to concentrate operations in the Lisbon and Oporto regions 1/. A
further problem results from the higher administrative cost involved in
appraising SMI projects due to the SMI less sophisticated accounting and
information systems. The proposed SMI line of credit incorporates special
incentives designed to meet this problem (para. 5.32).
2.14      Role of CGD in Lending to SMI.  CGD, second to the commercial banks,
has the potential to be a significant source of funds for SMI. It is the
largest of Portugal's credit institutions in terms of total assets, deposits
and branches (it has 130 branches dispersed throughout the country and two 2/
abroad to collect savings from Portuguese migrant workers). Moreover, some
67% of its total credit is term credit and its lending to manufacturing,
although less than that of BFN is substantial. However, CGD has been hampered
traditionally as a source of credit for SMI by its limited appraisal capab-
ility, its conservative and slow procedures and its traditional emphasis on
the adequacy of collaterals, which tends to disqualify many SMI. Recently,
its appraisal capability has been significantly strengthened. Moreover, over
the last two years, CGD has intensified efforts to serve SMI, both in the
framework of the CIFRE program (para. 2.29) and a program of collaboration
with IAPMEI (paras. 2.20-2.28) and it is developing appraisal techniques
specially intended for SMI. However, appraisal capability remains concen-
trated in Lisbon (90 professionals), Oporto (19 professionals) and Madeira (2
professionals) and intentions to help SMI may have to be buttressed by further
development and decentralization of its appraisal capability.
2.15      Role of BFN in Lending to SMI.  Although BFN is the leading institu-
tion having access to long term foreign funds 3/ and the majority of its
lending is directed to industry, it has not been so far a major source of
credit for SMI. Indeed, it specializes in the financing of projects that by
Portuguese standards can be considered as large. In 1977 only 19% of credit
approved for investment projects was for projects with an investment cost of
less than US$500,000 equivalent. Although BFN's appraisal standards are the
highest in the country, they result in a slow processing of loan applications
and are illsuited to analyze a large volume of small projects. BFN's 20
branches are insufficient in number to meet the needs of the SMI scattered
throughout the country. Moreover, in the past, branches had little respons-
ibilities for project appraisal, which was almost exclusively the task of the
Lisbon office. Recent decentralization measures have created another major
appraisal department in Oporto, in addition to the one in Lisbon, and have
1/   A sample of 6 banks indicated that 54.6% and 25.1 % of term credit out-
standing were respectively in the Lisbon and Oporto regions.
2/   One branch in Paris and a financial agency in Rio de Janeiro.
3/   BFN was the recipient of a US$ 50 million Bank loan (see Report No.
1462-PO dated May 9, 1977) in 1977 and of two loans from the European
Investment Bank, it has contracted several loans on the Euro-currency
market and it has received mandate to manage the EFTA Industrial Devel-
opment Fund for Portugal.



- 15 -
delegated limited decision making authority to the branches.  BFN plans to do
more for SMI in the future but will need for this purpose more flexible and
decentralized appraisal procedures.
2.16      Arrcars in the Banking System.  Most Portuguese credit institutions
have become affected in varying degrees by arrears of debt service payments on
their loan portfolios. As of June 30, 1978, arrears affected 21% of BFN's
portfolio and amounted to 11% of that portfolio. Arrears of the commercial
banks were in the range of 15 to 18% of their portfolios, consisting essenti-
ally of short-term loans frequently rolled over as a matter of course. The
inability of enterprises, including a number of SMI, to honor their obliga-
tions to the banking system is partly explained by the financial difficulties
the enterprises experienced in the wake of the revolution and partly by the
strict austerity measures, including large increases in interest rates, and
limits imposed on credit constraining the investments needed to rationalize
operations and adversely affecting liquidity and profits. The proposed SMI
line of credit would come precisely at a moment when some relaxation of the
austerity measures and the readjustment of the incentive structure would allow
a recovery of industrial investment, leading in turn to a gradual improvement
of the arrears situation. The Bank has been discussing this problem with the
Government since mid-1978 and the Government has confirmed its intention to
review with the Bank at regular intervals the arrears situation and the means
to reduce them and restore the financial situation of enterprises in arrears,
including viability contracts or equivalent schemes (see para. 2.17).
2.17      Viability Contracts.  The viability contract, whose framework was
provided by legislation of April 1977, has been so far the main instrument
used by the Government to strengthen both the financial institutions affected
by and the enterprises responsible for arrears. It is a contract whereby an
economically viable yet financially troubled private 1/ enterprise may obtain
consolidation of its debts, new loans at subsidized rates and other financial
and fiscal benefits by committing itself to certain production, productivity
and financial targets. More details on the viability contracts are in the
Project File (item A3). While viability contracts appear a sound instrument
to deal with such situations, complicated procedures, in which a leading role
was given to the financial intermediary most exposed in the ailing enterprise,
have prevented this instrument from achieving the widespread application for
which it was intended. In particular, many enterprises have been discouraged
by the complexity of the information required as well as the slow processing
of applications for the contract. Both of these factors have particular
relevance for SMI. A Banco de Portugal regulation, effective January 1978,
simplified the'procedures for the SMI involved and established (with the
support of IAPMEI) a temporary regime (interest subsidies) for the maximum
period of one year to sustain them until a contract is concluded. By the end
of 1978, 467 applications for viability contracts had been received. As of
March 1979, 127 applications had been approved, providing for the consolida-
tion of about Esc. 6.8 billion (US$136 million equivalent) of bank credits.
1/   A similar instrument, the "Acordo de Saneamento Economico-Financeiro"
exists for public enterprises.



- 16 -
2.18      The final date for applications for the viability contract was
December 31, 1978. However, the Government has already approved the creation
of a special agency, named PARAGESTE, in the equity capital of which all the
banks would participate and the purpose of which would be to assist the
recovery of economically viable private enterprises that have not applied for
viability contracts by the end of 1978. PARAGESTE's assistance would involve
procedures and benefits similar to those available under viability contracts.
Furthermore a special Government working group (see para. 2.27) is presently
reviewing the possibility of introducing a new instrument which would be made
available only to SMI. This latter instrument would involve a special contract
between IAPMEI and the enterprise as to production and profitability targets,
and fiscal benefits, with the contract between the banks and the enterprise
limited to the rescheduling of debt at favorable terms.
C.   The Institute for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises (IAPMEI)
2.19      Introduction.  Before the revolution of April 1974, there was no
specialized institution to provide assistance to the Portuguese SMI. In May
1974, the Government established a Commission of Support for Small and Medium
Industry, transformed in February 1975 into IAPMEI, with the objective to help
SMI adjust to the changed economic conditions in the country. To qualify for
assistance from IAPMEI, industrial SMI must employ between 5 and 400 persons
(up to 600 if working more than one shift) and must have annual sales below
Esc. 150 million (US$3.3 million equivalent). However, IAPMEI assistance
may be extended to enterprises which, following a merger or restructuring,
would exceed the employee or sales limit. Out of approximately 15,000 indus-
trial enterprises believed to be eligible for IAPMEI assistance, 8,514 enter-
prises with total sales of Esc. 94,000 (US$2.1 billion equivalent) and 384,000
employees had registered 1/ with IAPMEI by the end of 1977. The distribution
of SMI registered with IAPMEI broken down by geographical distribution, manu-
facturing subsectors, employment and sales is summarized in Table 6. IAPMEI
offers both financial and technical assistance services to eligible SMI; the
former are described in paras. 2.23-2.26, the latter are described in paras.
3.02-3.08. More details on IAPMEI's activities are to be found in the Project
File (items Bi and B2).
2.20      Structure and staffing of IAPMEI.  IAPMEI is a Government agency
within the Ministry of Industry and Technology (MIT). It has a Board of
Directors and a consultative Board, in which the banking system, the Ministry
of Finance, Banco de Portugal, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Labor
and the MIT are represented. The IAPMEI management team (one president and
three vice-presidents) is fully competent. An organization diagram of IAPMEI
is given in Chart 1. IAPMEI's head office is in Lisbon. In addition, there
are two regional offices in Oporto and Coimbra and seven branch offices. As
of mid-1978, the staff of IAPMEI was 185, including 124 professionals (split
approximately equally between economists and engineers). About half the staff
is in Lisbon, a fifth in Oporto a tenth in Coimbra and the remainder in the
various branch offices.  IAPNEI needs to further decentralize its activities
throughout the country, particularly in the Oporto region, where there are
nearly as many SMI as in the Lisbon region.
1/   Registration requires submission to IAPNEI of summary business data, plus
annual updated reports and is a prerequisite for IAPMEI's assistance.



- 17 -
2.21      Although IAPMEI's staff generally is competent and conscientious,
retention of experienced staff is a serious problem as a result of the low
civil service salary structure. IAPMEI needs to strengthen its staff in terras
of number, specialization and experience. The Government recognizes that
IAPMEI must be permitted to offer more competitive conditions of employment
in order to recruit and retain the experienced and specialized staff essential
to allow IAPMEI to fulfill its role and is considering a new statute which
will provide the Institute with greater autonomy. Because of IAPMEI's key
role in the coordination and implementation of the proposed SMI development
project, Government approval of legislation, acceptable to the Bank, amending
IAPMEI's statutes will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank
loan. Completion of the legal formalities for the effectiveness of the new
statute is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.
2.22      Performance and Evaluation.  IAPMEI's operations started in the
midst of political and economic turmoil. During the first three years of
its operations it was involved primarily in rescue operations, providing
guarantees for SMI in urgent need of funds, mostly for working capital. How-
ever, it was soon realized that more fundamental changes were required. Since
mid-1976 IAPMEI has applied increasing amounts of its limited resources to the
basic restructuring problems of SMI and has shifted its activities towards
providing more technical assistance and promoting new enterprises. In a few
years, IAPMEI has made impressive progress towards assuming responsibility for
the formulation and implementation of effective programs of assistance to the
SMI segment of the manufacturing sector.
2.23      IAPMEI's Financial Facilities.  Although it is not itself a credit
institution, IAPMEI facilitates SMI's access to credit from the banking sector
through the following main facilities, in which it acts on behalf of the
Portuguese State and relies on Government budget allocations:
(a) Guarantees for short term loans which prefinance confirmed
orders or finance the purchase of raw materials. The maximum
guarantee in each case is Esc. 1.5 million (US$33,000 equiv-
alent) or 50% of the loan, whichever is less. As of June 30,
1978 IAPMEI had guaranteed under this facility 555 loans
totalling Esc. 510 million with the total amount guaranteed
equalling Esc. 291 million (Esc. 154 million outstanding).
Of loans granted up to June 30, 1978, 46 loans (9%) had
defaulted and IAPMEI had to pay Esc. 27 million (9.3% of the
total amounts guaranteed) to the banks under the guarantee
facility. 1/
1/   In the event of an enterprises default the creditor may request IAPMEI
(in effect the State) to pay the percentage of the amount in arrears
equivalent to the percentage of the guarantee. Unless it can arrange a
rescheduling, IAPMEI will honor the guarantee and subsequently the State
and the creditor must together initiate court proceedings against the
firm.



- 18 -
(b) Guarantees for medium and long term loans which financed
fixed and working capital investment or expenditures incurred
in restructuring operations. The maximum guarantee in each
case is Esc. 5 million (US$100,000 equivalent) except in cases
of mergers, joint ventures or projects located on industrial
estates where the ceiling can be raised. As of June 30, 1978
IAPMEI had participated under this facility in 435 loans amount-
ing to a total of Esc. 1,205 million with the total amount
guaranteed by IAPMEI equalling Esc. 562 million (Esc. 484 mil-
lion outstanding). Of loans granted up to June 30, 1978, 10
loans (3%) had defaulted and IAPMEI had to pay Esc. 16 million
(2.8% of total amounts guaranteed) to the banks under the
guarantee provision.
(c) Support in obtaining rescheduling of debt, particularly when
short term debt had been contracted to finance fixed assets (a
widespread practice for SMI prior to 1974). 1/
(d) Support in obtaining the benefits (in particular interest subsi-
dies) of a temporary regime created to sustain SMI during the
intervening period between application for and conclusion of a
viability contract (see para. 2.17). The maximum period of this
regime is one year.
2.24      The granting of guarantees (on behalf of the State), the outstanding
total of which may not exceed Esc. 2 billion (US$ 44 million equivalent), is
the most important of IAPMEI's financial services (Table 2.3). Although ini-
tially the banking system was suspicious of IAPMEI, particularly that it was
supporting enterprises of dubious viability, a better understanding has
developed between the two. This is, inter alia, evidenced by the decline
(from 64% in 1975 to 45% in 1977) of the amount guaranteed relative to
the amount of credit mobilized with IAPMEI's support. As of June 30, 1978 the
cumulative total of finance provided by financial institutions with IAPMEI's
collaboration had reached Esc. 1.7 billion (about US$40 million). IAPMEI had
guaranteed 50.0% of this amount. 70% of the total consisted of term loans for
fixed asset investment. The amount as well as the proportion of fixed asset
financing has risen over the years (the latter representing 86% in 1977)
reflecting IAPMEI's increased selectivity, with the realization that rescue
operations (in the form of working capital) would provide only a temporary
solution to fundamental problems.
2.25      Cumulative data as of the end of 1977 show that 80% of the total
number of loans (381) and 69% of the fixed asset investment allocated in conj-
unction with the IAPMEI guarantee were made available to small scale firms
(i.e. 5-100 workers). 44% of the fixed asset investment went to firms with
less than 50 workers. Yet the number of small scale firms benefiting from
1/   Between November 1976 and August 1977 IAPMEI assisted Banco de Portugal
in a program whereby SMI in difficulty could obtain financial assistance
from Banco de Portugal.



Table 2.3
SIORY TABLE OF L4W5I S  MNSVERSE
(all anounto in thousand escudos)
I.  Enterpriaes Registered rwith 7A I 1/                                                          N5.  ie          Po. oE                 Value of
15,701           704,121              93,745,059
No. of         Amunt              Armont          Average Financing
Jr AMEITs Gusranteete operurin  2                                                 operations2    Fiounscgd           Gvar. ed             per OPeration
Fixed Capital                                                               435          1,205,768           562,2                  2,772
Working Capital                                                             355            509,a09           291,035                   91S
Total                                                                       990          1,715,577           853,253                1,733
all.  No. of IAIRI'e Guarantee Operations t                                            21-50           51-100           102-300
by Size of Enterprise 11                  .-___
Fixed Capital                                                    97          121             S9                64                   70                389
Worldog Capital                                                  79          155             133              118                   14                509
Total                                                           176          286            222               182                   24                998
IP.  Sectors 8aenfiting MOst fEr  IAPI's                                                             Netal           Textiles &              Ci,i1
Guarantee 2/                                                                               meehhanlicn        Clothing            Constr-nti`n
No. of Fixed Capital Operations                                                              163               80                   32
No. of Working Capital Operations                                                           165               131                   62
Total                                                                                       329               211                   94
/ As of December 30, 1977
/  AZ of June 30, 1978
Gourno.-Annex 1, Tables 17-20



- 20 -
IAPMEI's financial assistance represented less than 3% of all small scale
manufacturing enterprises in Portugal. The decentralization of IAPMEI will
strengthen its efforts to meet the needs of this group which have had so far
the most limited access to institutional finance.
2.26      Metal-working, textiles and construction are among the sectors
which have secured the greatest amount of financing through IAPMEI. Not
unexpectedly most of its clients are in the Lisbon and Oporto areas. IAPMEI
should be encouraged to reach more enterprises in other parts of the country.
D.   Equity Financing and SMI
2.27      Other than a past program (CIFRE program) under which public funding
in the form of quasi-equity was provided for projects sponsored by displaced
persons from the former colonies, there exists no modus operandi whereby
financial institutions or the government may channel equity participations to
needy SMI (or other firms). 1/ The abstention of the banks results both from
statutory constraints and from fears on the part of firms that equity partic-
ipations from government owned banks may be a prelude to nationalization. The
law of October 1977 on compensation for nationalized assets provides for the
possibility of credit institutions redeeming securities issued as compensation
if the proceeds are used to finance productive investment or participate up to
70% in the equity of productive investments; however, the implementation of
the mechanisms provided under this law are expected to take time.
2.28      The Government has established a special group to study, inter alia,
possible means whereby equity funds could be channelled to needy SMI either
through IAPMEI, a special Fund in BFN, or other mechanisms, such as special-
ized investment companies. A preliminary proposal made by the study group
would significantly enlarge the scope of IAPMEI's financial assistance and
endow it with special resources to take minority equity participations (and
possibly also bonds) in eligible SMI. Such new financial functions would be
complementary to IAPMEI's technical assistance functions, which would remain
the central functions of the institution.
III. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMI
3.01      Besides the Public Enterprise for Industrial Estates (EPPI), whose
investment program is particularly geared to the needs of the SMI, technical
assistance for the SMI is essentially provided by three agencies, namely
(i) IAPMEI, already deccribed above for its role in financial assistance to
SMI (paragraphs 2.23 to 2.26) which provides general technical advisory
services for SMI and plays a catalytic role in training, promotion, mergers
and other forms of collaboration among SMI; (ii) the National Laboratory for
Industrial Engineering and Technology (LNETI), an autonomous agency within the
1/   The viability contract also provides for increases in the equity of par-
ticipating enterprises; this is primarily through revaluation of reserves.



- 21 -
MIT, which coordinates Portugal R&D efforts for industry; and (iii) the Export
Development Fund (FFE), an autonomous agency under the Ministry of Trade and
Tourism, which is in charge of promoting Portugal's exports abroad. The
technical assistance activities of these agencies, which the proposed project
will aim at strengthening, are described in the following paraglaphs.
A. Technical Assistance Role of IAPMEI
3.02      Technical Assistance Services.  The advisory services of the IAPMEI
cover production, marketing, organization as well as financial and economic
matters. The organization of the technical assistance departments of IAPMEI
is shown in Chart 1. In addition the IAPMEI maintains a roster of independent
consultants in various fields of specialization who are available for assign-
ments at the request of enterprises, and administers funds to assist in the
financing of R&D expenditures and feasibility studies for SMI projects.
Although in the past the IAPMEI concentrated its advisory services on firms
experiencing serious financial difficulties with the risk of closure and loss
of jobs, IAPMEI recognizes the need to shift now the majority of its technical
assistance resources towards assisting enterprises which, although in a
financially satisfactory situation and with adequate management, need assis-
tance in order to diversify their product lines, improve productivity through
better organization and management, modernize equipment and working methods,
raise quality standards and develop better marketing techniques. As it is
impossible to provide full assistance to each SMI, the sectoral approach would
be used more, through sector studies (as has been done in the case of footwear
and is contemplated for textiles), training, information dissemination, models
for management systems (plant layouts, production and quality control proce-
dures), common purchasing and marketing, and other group services.
3.03      Promotion.  A further function of the IAPMEI, to which only limited
resources have been devoted until now, is the promotion of new enterprises
and products. IAPMEI promoted and approved loan guarantees for 27 new SMI
projects in 1977, with a total investment envisaged of Esc. 291 million
(US$7.6 million) and a total employment creation of 1,108 (which implies an
average investment cost per job of about US$6,900). IAPMEI has also issued
a very useful manual on project preparation for the guidance of potential
industrial entrepreneurs. It has published recently a manual on national
legislation (covering investment licenses), legal requirements, factory
inspection, pollution control, taxation, etc.) which will make it easier for
new entrepreneurs to comply with their legal and financial obligations and to
gain access to existing incentives. This type of indirect promotion may be
best suited to IAPMEI's structure and staff. IAPMEI cannot and should not
expect to assume the role of the entrepreneur in "smelling out" new market
opportunities or in genuine products or process innovation. But it could
facilitate the entrepreneurs task by carrying out techno-economic and market
studies in product fields where opportunities exist for SMI exports or effi-
cient import substitution. For this purpose, it should collaborate more
closely with FFE, which currently lacks a detailed knowledge of the capacity
of the SMI segment of the economy and of its informational and promotional
needs.



- 22 -
3.04      Mergers and other forms of collaboration.  IAPMEI's achivements
so far in arranging mergers between SMI have been meager. The experience
has been that SMI, even in very deteriorated financial positions, show con-
siderable reluctance towards mergers. This should not, however, discourage
IAPMEI from playing a catalytic role in other forms of collaboration between
enterprises. The potential exists for the establishment of closer and bene-
ficial links between large industrial enterprises and SMI not only through
subcontracting arrangements, but also through the fostering of cooperation
in marketing both on the domestic and exports markets (with the assistance
of FFE for the latter), exchange of technical information and direct manage-
ment assistance from the larger to the smaller firms. These efforts could
be closely linked to the industrial estate program of EPPI (see Chapter IV
below), working through local associations or groupings of SMI. Ultimately
IAPMEI could work out specific concrete proposals, going beyond common market-
ing arrangements, for the gradual integration of the production programs of
SMI in the same region and sector, utilizing capacity as available in the
different firms, leading to final restructuring in larger industrial units,
possibly relocated on an industrial estate. IAPMEI has agreed to prepare by
June 30, 1979 a specific program to stimulate the above forms of collaboration
between enterprises. This program will be reviewed by the Bank.
3.05      Training.  With a central training staff of three professionals,
IAPMEI is initiating a program of training activities for SMI. These acti-
vities would aim at raising the quality of management and technical know-how
in the SMI through a range of seminars and on-the-job training sessions.
A special program already underway aims at training SMI workers in the under-
standing of the basic concepts of business economics. IAPNEI's role in
these programs is only to organize the courses and recruit the lecturers,
without further involvement of the IAPMEI's staff. So far, about 70% of the
IAPNEI's training activities have taken place in Lisbon; more regional pro-
grams are planned for the future. The IAPMEI's training activities are
complementary to those of the management training centers being set up in
Lisbon and Oporto as part of the Ministry of Industry and Technology and with
Bank support in the framework of the recently approved Education Project (see
Report No. 1807-PO, paragraphs 2.22 to 2.25); these training centers are
expected to concentrate on the training needs in the larger public and private
enterprises.
B. LNETI and Mechanisms for Technological Assistance to SMI
3.06      In the past, a number of laboratories operated in areas of poten-
tial interest to SMI.  These laboratories were either grouped in the National
Institute of Industrial Research (INII) 1/ of the MIT, employing about 400 of
which about half were graduates or independent institutions supported finan-
cially by the Government such as the Physics and Nuclear Energy Laboratory
1/   Including the Food Industry Technology Institute and the Industrial Tech-
nology Institute.



- 23 -
(LFEN) - essentially a physics laboratory, employing 440 or which one-third
were graduates.  For the future, the Government has decided to channel all its
efforts of technological support to industry, and in particular to SMI through
one new centralized institution, the National Laboratory for Industrial
Engineering alA Technology (LNETI), which within 4 to 5 years would control
or coordinate all the laboratories and technical information and training
centers in the country. The LNETI will operate under the supervision of the
MIT. The laboratories, or sections of them, will mainly be located in the
industrialized Lisbon, Oporto and Coimbra regions.
3.07      At present the organizational structure is in flux and the linkage
between industrial needs and scientific and technological R&D, information
and technical assistance services is not well established. The Government
has requested Bank assistance for a review of its policies of assistance
to industry in the field of technology. Part of the funds allocated under
the proposed Bank loan for studies would be earmarked for such a review,
particularly as it relates to the needs of the SMI (para 5.31).  The potential
role of IAPMEI in organizing the two-way flow of technical information and
data between the SMI and the laboratories would be given special attention in
this review.
3.08      Pending the outcome of the above review, specific areas where the
laboratories could immediately provide technological and product development
assistance to the SMI have been identified. The foreign exchange cost of the
equipment needed to perform these tasks, mainly small pilot-plants with a
total cost of $1.9 million, will be met from the proceeds of the proposed Bank
loan. Details of the equipment, and its proposed application, are described
in paragraphs 5.20 to 5.25.
C. The Export Development Fund and Export Promotion Policies
3.09      Scope of Activities of FFE.  The main Government agency for helping
exporters is the Export Development Fund (FFE i.e. Fundo de Fomento de Exporta-
cao), which has been in existence for the past 10 years.  The FFE is under the
supervision of the Secretariat of State for Foreign Trade within the Ministry
of Commerce and Tourism. Its main purpose has been to organize preferential
credit for exporters at low or subsidized interest rates, but it also admin-
isters a number of other export subsidies or incentives schemes and provides
assistance for such matters as market research, businessmen's trips abroad to
promote exports,) participation in international fairs, and the publication of
sales promotional material. The FFE undertakes and publishes both general
country studies on foreign markets and specific studies on the prospects for
particular Portuguese products abroad. In recent years, the FFE has played a
direct role as negotiator for Portuguese exports particularly with centrally
planned economies (e.g. East Germany and the Soviet Union). The operating
budget for FFE in 1978 was the equivalent of US$10 million, plus a further
US$6.7 million equivalent for direct export subsidies.



-24 -
3.10      Staff and Organization.  The FFE employs a total of about 530,
of which 380 work in Lisbon (including about 100 professionals) and 150
abroad (including 70 professionals) in 26 offices throughout the world. These
overseas offices try to identify export outlets for Portuguese products and
provide continuous information on foreign markets. They also help Portuguese
exporters when visiting the country concerned or in any special promotional
activity. Much remains, however, to be done to improve the communications
between the FFE head and overseas offices and private exporters. Most of the
FEE staff are recent university graduates with little practical experience;
FFE has a chronic problem of attracting and retaining experienced personnel,
partially due to the higher salaries paid by industry. A complete reorgani-
zation of FFE is under consideration with assistance from the International
Trade Center (see paragraph 5.26 below) and the institution will change its
name to the Portuguese Export Development Institute. It is hoped that the
reorganization of the FFE will also be the occasion to make it an institution
with more dynamic leadership, better quality staff and closer contacts with
industry.
3.11      Assessment of FFE Performance.  While there is no doubt that the
FFE has been of assistance in many cases, it appears to spread its activities
too thinly for its resources. In an attempt to push Portuguese exports
in different parts of the world, it has established offices in places where
the cost of maintaining an office bears little relationship to the potential
volume of Portuguese exports to the countries concerned. Similarly the
attempt to promote all industrial exports almost indiscriminately has led
to a disproportionate amount of time devoted to specific items, such as
wines, which in many cases have already established market channels. The
Government has confirmed that the FFE will prepare by December 31, 1979 a plan
for the next five years concentrating on a limited number of markets where the
potential is greatest and on items where Portugal is able to offer a competi-
tive product and where there is a need for identifying, contacting and develop-
ing suitable distribution channels. The metal working, food processing,
clothing, footwear, and furniture sectors (also all sectors dominated by SMI)
would be the major fields in which the FFE might concentrate its efforts. The
role of the FFE in promoting links between SMI and larger firms within Portu-
gal and overseas would also receive more attention, and concentration should
be given to setting up, under FFE supervision, a subcontracting exchange to
disseminate abroad information on unused industrial capacity available in
Portugal.
3.12      Export Development Contracts.  One of the most important task of
the FFE in the coming years would be the organization of Export Development
Contracts, and the conception and administration of more incentives for
exporters. 1/ The export development contracts are contracts between firms
1/   One of these new incentives could be Exporter's Certificates, similar
to those used in Spain and in France. Such certificates enable indus-
trial enterprises that are already exporting (e.g. those that have over
two years exported more than 30% of their output) to obtain imported
inputs free of customs duties and to benefit from other incentives.



- 25 -
or groups of firms and the FFE under which the firms undertake to implement
projects of investment, reorganization or restructuring (including association
or mergers of SMI and joint ventures with foreign partners) in an effort
to increase non-traditional exports or develop new markets. The export
development contracts entitle the participating firms to a number of incen-
tives, including technical and commercial assistance from the FFE, partial
financing by the FFE of R&D, marketing and promotional expenditures, bank
credit at subsidized rates, reduced taxation on profits from exports, accel-
erated depreciation and generous deductions from the tax basis of selected
investment expenditures. These contracts could become a powerful instrument
to stimulate SMI to enter the export field, but only if administered through a
dynamic institution able both to promote the contracts and to ensure through
adequate follow-up that they are effectively carried out. The performance of
FFE in this respect needs to be improved. The Government has confirmed that
it will by December 31, 1979 (i) simplify the present cumbersome procedures
for the processing of export development contract applications (delays,
deposit requirements, number of government departments whose views must be
obtained); and (ii) strengthen the FFE unit in charge of processing these
applications.
3.13      Export Subsidies.  The FFE is administering a budget of export sub-
sidies (US$6.7 million equivalent in 1978 to be increased to about US$30 mil-
lion in 1979), which in the past has been used to subsidize traditional
exports (mainly wines, textiles, shipbuilding and canned fish). A review of
the criteria for the allocation of such subsidies is expected to be part of
the reorientation of FFE's activities for the next five years (para. 3.11).
Special efforts are needed towards making a correct diagnosis of the obstacles
(not always financial) that are preventing enterprises, particularly SMI, to
expand their exports. Direct subsidies could be restricted to product lines
and enterprises where their impact in starting exports, penetrating new
markets and upgrading product quality for exports is maximum. Such subsidies
should preferably be based on domestic value added, be simple to administer by
the FFE, and be confined to a transitional period pending more basic measures
(e.g. restoration of cost-competitiveness and elimination of the bias for
import substitution and against exports resulting from the present system of
tariffs and surcharges) and a strengthening of manufactured exports. Portugal
would need approval of the EEC to use such subsidies for a limited transi-
tional period until Portugal becomes a full-fledged number of the EEC.
3.14      The technical assistance program of the ITC described below (para.
5.27-2.29) and for which partial financing would be provided under this proj-
ect is expected to contribute significantly to the strengthening of the FFE
and Portugal's export promotion policies (including possible reforms of the
export subsidy schemes), particularly as they related to the export perform-
ance of the SMI.



- 26 -
IV. INDUSTRIAL ESTATES PROGRAM
4.01      Introduction.  This chapter reviews the essential features of the
Government's industrial estates program, another program with a potentially
significant impact on the Portuguese SMI and which the proposed Bank loan
would support through a specific component financing the foreign exchange cost
of specific industrial estates.
4.02      Origin and purpose of the program.  Portugal's industrial develop-
ment has been so far heavily concentrated in the coastal regions stretching
from Viana do Castelo and Oporto in the North to Lisbon and Setubal in the
South. A potential for industrial (particularly SMI) development exists, how-
ever, in a number of other regions but has been constrained in the past by
inadequate infrastructure, lack of Government incentives and support for SMI,
and absence of any form of regional planning, particularly as regards the
allocation and equipment of land for industrial use. This is particularly
the case in regions with established industrial traditions but confronted
with problems of industrial restructuring and diversification away from tex-
tiles such as the district of Braga 1/ in the North and the Covilha region in
the central hinterland. This is also the case in regions in the South with
less strong industrial traditions but with significant manpower and natural
resources that could serve as a basis for industrialization, such as the Evora
and Beja districts in the agriculturally rich Alentejo region and the Faro dis-
trict in the Algarve, the main center of that region's tourism and fisheries
development. A number of studies 2/ on all the above region's development
potential, undertaken by the Government in the early seventies, concluded that,
together with a number of other measures, in particular improvement of infra-
structure, the creation of industrial estates in these regions would play a
catalytic role in stimulating industrial development, restructuring of diver-
sification. These studies showed also that the growing urbanization of these
regions, and in certain cases the physical configuration of the land, made
imperative the concentration of industrial development on areas especially
equipped for this purpose. The Government's response to the above studies was
the creation in 1973 of the Public Enterprise for Industrial Estates (EPPI or
Empressa Publica de Parques Industriais), a public enterprise under the super-
vision of the MIT. EPPI's mandate is to facilitate industrial development,
particularly SMI development, through the construction and operation of indus-
trial estates in medium sized urban centers which, while away from the already
excessively congested coastal areas, have the potential to develop into so-
called "industrial development poles".
4.03      Services Included in Industrial Estates.  EPPI's terms of reference
for the construction of industrial estates include the following: (i) prelim-
inary studies, topographical surveys and engineering design; (ii) purchase of
1/   Industrial activity in the district of Braga concentrates in the densely
populated quadrangle formed by the towns of Braga, Guimaraes, Barcelos
and Vila Nova de Familicao.
2/   These studies are in the project file (items Cl to C6).



- 27 -
land; (iii) land levelling, roads, and sewerage works; (iv) water, electricity
and fuel supply systems; (v) drainage systems, including polluting affluent
treatment stations; (vi) telecommunications; (vii) factory buildings (most of
them standardized into four types ranging from 475 square meters to 1,950
square meters, with a few buildings built according to specifications) and
"nursery-factories" (using approximately 250 square meters) for smaller enter-
prises; (viii) technical support services such as repair workshops, garages,
warehouses, and machinery and equipment leasing services; (ix) social services
such as nurseries, canteens, and first aid centers; and (x) administrative and
promotional services. The estates projects prepared by EPPI so far involve
areas of between 20 and 50 ha of which 30 to 35% is planned to be covered
eventually by buildings. Although the legislation establishing the EPPI also
envisages the possibility of sales or leasing arrangements, recent Government
instructions provide only for the rental of factories or other industrial
buildings as well as for lease-hold rights over the adjacent plots of land.
4.04      Program of Construction of the Estates.  The revolution of 1974
delayed the preparation of EPPI's investment program, and it was only in 1976
that the Government formally approved an investment program involving the
construction by EPPI over the period 1977-1985 of six estates at Braga,
Guimaraes, Covilha, Evora, Beja and Faro. The construction of each estate is
subdivided in two or three phases, each being more of less self-contained.
Construction for the Braga estate (Phase One) started in 1977 and by early
1978 industrial buildings were already available for rental, eliciting a very
encouraging response of industrialists, including a substantial proportion of
displaced persons from the former colonies. Construction of the industrial
estates of Guimaraes and Covilha is now well underway, and work for the Evora
estate is expected to begin in the spring of 1979. The least advanced estates
are those in Beja and Faro for which work is not expected to begin before the
end of 1979. A summary of the basic features of the proposed six industrial
estates is given in Table 4.1.
4.05      Investment Cost.  A detailed account of the investment cost of the
industrial estates program is given in Table 7. The total cost of the six
estates (including phsysical contingencies amounting to 9.3% of the baseline
cost) from 1977 (inception of the Braga estate) to 1985 (completion of the
third phase of the Evora estate) is estimated at Esc. 2.0 billion 1/ (US$52.4
million equivalent). Although work has already started with about Esc. 330
million 1/ (US$8.6 million equivalent) already expended by the end of 1978,
the bulk of the cost (i.e. Esc. 1.5 billion 1/ or US$39.1 million equivalent)
is expected to be incurred over the 1979-82 period, with only 8.5% of the cost
remaining to be incurred over the 1983-85 period, most of which would be for
the third phase of the Evora estate. On the basis of detailed economic
analysis, including the use of an input-output matrix and a matrix of capital
coefficients, it is estimated that the direct and indirect foreign exchange
component of the investment cost amounts to about 20% of total cost, i.e.
US$7.8 million 1/ for the 1979-82 period. The allowance for price contingen-
cies (21% of the baseline cost) brings the foreign exchange cost projected for
1/   Amounts at 1977 prices.



- 28 -
Table 4.1: BASIC FEATURES OF INDUSTRIAL ESTATES INCLUDED
IN EPPI INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Invest-
Total                ment cost
invest-              per job
ment                  (infra-
cost                 structure
Total             in US$                and build-
Basic          Land    Covered  million   Expected  ings only)
Justification      area       area   at 1977   Employ-   in US$ at
Location   for Location        (in ha) (in ha)  prices        ment    1977 prices
Braga       Industrial tradi-
tion
Diversification
away from textiles
and clothing         32.9    9.37    11.2         3,200        3,500
Guimaraes  Idem                  28.0    7.11       8.5       2,500        3,400
Covilha    Potential for
agro-industries      20.55   6.63       7.3       2,000        3,650
Decline of the
local wool indus-
try
Evora      Good transport
connections
Potential for
agro-industries
Surplus manpower
resulting from
agrarian reform      50.0    9.01    11.1        4,500         2,467
Beja       Potential for
agro-industries
Surplus manpower
resulting from
agrarian reform
and phasing out
of military base    28.2    5.16        6.7       1,750        3,829
Faro       Diversification
away from tourism
and canning indus-
try                  25.0    6.05       7.6       1,850        4,108
Total                           195.7   43.33    52.4        15,800        3,316



- 29 -
the 1979-82 period to US$9.5 million. This last amount has been the basis for
determining the size of the proposed loan component to EPPI to finance the
foreign exchange component of its investment program over the 1979-82 period.
4.06      Financing Plan.  Until the end of 1978 EPPI has been financed
entirely by Government non-reimbursable allocations from the budget. For the
years 1979 up to and including 1982, it has been agreed that EPPI would be
capitalized directly by the Government with 45% of the sums needed for its
investment program (40% in the form of equity and 5% in the form of a long-
term subordinated loan 1/) 2/, while the remaining 55% would be raised through
domestic and foreign loans. EPPI has already obtained an Esc. 50 million
(US$1.1 million equivalent) loan (for 12 years with a 2 year grace period)
from the EFTA Industrial Development Fund for Portugal which will be used to
finance investments in the industrial estates of Braga, Guimaraes and Covilha.
Besides the proposed Bank loan component of US$9.5 million, the financing gap
of about US$16.5 million equivalent would be financed by a DM 8.8 million loan
from the Federal Republic of Germany currently under negotiation, which would
amount to about 10% of EPPI's program (i.e. US$4.7 million during the 1979-82
period), loans from CGD as well as some internal cash generation. A Decree-
Law, committing the Government to finance 45% of EPPI's investment program
(40% in the form of equity and 5% in the form of long-term subordinated loan)
during the 1979-82 period will be a condition of disbursement of the indus-
trial estates component.
4.07      Rental Policy.  EPPI's program began with heavily subsidized rent.
This policy has now been abandoned and factory space is now offered at a
basic rate of Esc. 47 (US$1 equivalent) per square meter per month which
appears in line with the market situation. For the future, EPPI has agreed to
establish its initial rentals on equipped plots and buildings being placed into
service, at such levels as to generate, on the assumption of 90% occupancy, a
net revenue of at least 7% of EPPI's actual investment costs accountable to
such plots and buildings. To determine initial rents in this manner, EPPI's
investment costs will be revalued to the prices of the fiscal year when the
plots are first offered for rent. If plots are not rented within the year,
EPPI will adjust its initial asking rents at least once a year to take account
of inflation. Once a plot is rented EPPI will revise at least every three
years (instead of five years as is now the case) its rentals so established,
as well as those charged under existing contracts, in line with an index
reflecting domestic inflation (particularly in the construction sector).
Approval by the Government in the form of a Decree-Law, which is required to
make possible such changes in EPPI's rental policy, will be a condition of
disbursement for the industrial estates loan component.
1/   The Government long-term subordinated loan to EPPI will provide for a
grace period for both principal and interest (with the latter being
capitalized) through 1982; the Government will determine in 1982, in
consultation with the Bank whether EPPI's financial situation would
require the conversion of the subordinated loan into equity.
2/   Taking into account that the Government financed until the end of 1978
100% of EPPI's investment program in the form of equity, Government's
financing of 45% of the 1979-82 tranche of EPPI's investment program is
sufficient to ensure that by the end of 1982 50%, of the investment
program since its inception will have been financed by the Government.



- 30 -
4.08      Rentals Differentials and Government Incentives for Regional Devel-
opment. While rentals on the average would be established according to the
above principle, EPPI intends to differentiate the rentals among the different
estates in line with the encouragements needed to attract entrepreneurs and
the external benefits associated with the estates. Rental discounts of 15%
are envisaged for the Covilha and Beja estates and of 10% for the Evora estate
while a 5% surcnarge would be added to rentals in the Braga and Faro estates,
reflecting the scarcity of land for industrial use in these regions. Further-
more the Government is offering to enterprises establishing themselves on the
estates a number of fiscal and financial incentives, varying according to the
estate and the enterprise's line of activity. These incentives include reduc-
tions under or exemptions from customs duties for imported equipment, taxes
on income and capital, capital gains tax, as well as accelerated depreciation,
investment allowances, special financial assistance through IAPMEI, etc. An
assessment of the justification and impact of these incentives will be given
as part of the appraisal of the individual estates (para. 5.15).
4.09      Financial Projections.  With the above rental policy, EPPI is
expected to have a positive cash-flow after debt service in 1982 and to make
profits in 1986 over its entire program. The Government has agreed to meet
EPPI's cash deficits during this period. EPPI would earn a net revenue of
about $1.1 million in 1986, when full occupancy on all six estates will have
been achieved, increasing significantly thereafter. In view of the long
gestation period associated with industrial estates, these results are satis-
factory. The internal economic rates of return (IERR) of the individual
industrial estates are estimated between 15% and 25% and the IERR for the
program as a whole would be 22%. EPPI's financial projections and the
calculations of the IERR are detailed in the Project File (item C7 to C12).
4.10      EPPI's Financial Policies.  EPPI's financial policies are prudent
and take into account the particular risks involved in the industrial estates
activity. Currently EPPI has no long term debt and its debt equity ratio
is not expected to exceed 1.5:1 at any time in the future. Its long term
debt service coverage is projected to reach 1.4 by 1986 and not to fall below
that level thereafter. EPPI has agreed to maintain the above ratio and
coverage.
4.11      Employment Creation.  Total employment creation by the enterprises
expected to occupy the six estates included in EPPI's investment program would
reach 15,800, which would imply an average investment cost per job (infra-
structure and industrial buildings only) of US$3,316 at 1977 prices, and an
average covered area of 27 square meters per job. A detailed analysis of the
first 21 factories installed on the Braga estate, with projected employment
creation of 653, suggests that EPPI has invested in infrastructure and factory
construction about US$3,175 equivalent per job, while the enterprises invest-
ment in equipment and working capital was about US$8,550 per job, bringing
total investment cost per job at about US$11,725 a very reasonable figure for
Portugal.



- 31 -
4.12      Export Promotion.  Besides the objective of employment creation,
the Government plans to see EPPI give priority in industrial estates to
industrial enterprises, particularly SMI, with a significant potential for
generating exports. Such exports generation would be based on the utilization
of local raw materials (ceramics, timber, marble, cork, etc.) and skills, and
on subcontracting for larger domestic exporters or foreign enterprises.
Details on the first 21 enterprises on the Braga estate indicate that 10 plan
to export from 20% to 80% of their output, reaching total annual exports of
US$5.25 million. EPPI has agreed that, in a joint effort with IAPMEI, it will
aim at attracting in priority export oriented SMI to the estates, with the
objective of having at least half of the occupants exporting directly or
indirectly more than 20% of their output.
4.13      EPPI's Staff and Organization.  EPPI which started effectively to
operate only in 1975, is still a small organization with a total staff of only
41, of whom 30 work in the head office in Lisbon and 11 are superving the
construction of industrial estates already underway. The present organization
chart of EPPI is given in Chart 2. Practically all the professional staff
which numbers 12 are civil engineers or architects concerned with the physical
planning of the estates. EPPI's top management is fully competent and includes
a civil engineer with considerable construction experience (managing director),
a very competent economist, who with a few aids is working on EPPI's financial
projections and will play the leading role in the preparation of the appraisal
reports on the individual industrial estates projects to be submitted to the
Bank (para. 5.15), and a recently appointed senior staff member with business
experience who will direct EPPI's promotional efforts. Directors have already
been appointed to manage the industrial estates of Braga, Guimaraes, Covilha
and Evora.
4.14      To carry out its ambitious program of launching six industrial
estates that would be almost completed by the end of 1982, EPPI will need
to enlarge its present staff substantially. Plans have already been made to
bring EPPI's staff to 65 by the end of 1979, of which 25 would be working
outside of Lisbon, supervising the construction and initial operation of
the estates, establishing contacts with potential occupants, reviewing appli-
cations, preparing contracts and managing the estates. What is most necessary
is a strengthening of EPPI's marketing and promotional activities and suitable
coordination of such efforts with the local authorities, IAPMEI, FFE, and
banks and the Institute for Foreign Investment. In particular, cooperation
with IAPMEI needs to be intensified and to include technical and technological
(in collaboration with LNETI), managerial and financial assistance to SMI
interested in establishing themselves on the estates. IAPMEI decentralization
plans will involve, whenever possible, the establishment of small offices
in the vicinity of EPPI's industrial estates. EPPI has agreed to prepare by
July 31, 1979 a plan for the strengthening of its marketing and promotional
activities. It will also cooperate with IAPMEI in the preparation by IAPMEI
of a plan of technical assistance to SMI interested in establishing themselves
on the estates (para. 5.19). Both plans will be reviewed by the Bank.



- 32 -
4.15      EPPI's Procurement.  EPPI's procurement is either on the basis of
public tenders solicited through newspaper advertisements, or by inviting a
minimum of five competitive firms to submit bids for more specialized goods
or services. The procurement practices are closely supervised by EPPI's man-
agement, and are considered appropriate.
4.16      Expanded Program.  Impressed by the favorable response of indus-
trialists to the offer of factory accommodation on the Braga industrial estate,
the Government requested EPPI, in November 1977 to prepare an expanded pro-
gram for the construction of six further estates. Following the submission
of a preliminary expanded program in March 1978, it was decided that further
study should be undertaken to select the location of further estates within
the interior of the country and that the construction of such estates should
begin only after the six estates of the present program are almost completed
and occupied.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Components and Objectives
5.01      Project Components.  The project, for which a Bank loan of US$45
million to the Government is proposed, would be the Bank's first integrated
SMI development project in Portugal and would comprise the following compo-
nents:
(a) an SMI credit component, to be on-lent by the Government to
Banco de Portugal under a subsidiary loan agreement, to help
finance through the network of the Portuguese commercial
banks and specialized financial intermediaries, and with the
active involvement of IAPMEI, selected SMI investment projects
with special emphasis on export-oriented and labor-intensive
projects or projects in less developed regions;
(b) a tranche of EPPI's investment program, for which part of the
Bank loan would be on-lent by the Government to EPPI under a
subsidiary loan agreement, to help finance selected industrial
estates projects to be implemented over the 1979-82 period;
(c) a technical and technological assistance program, including
selected projects sponsored by the LNETI and contributing to
the infusion of new technology into the SMI;
(d) an export promotion program to be implemented jointly by a
Portuguese team and by the UNCTAD/GATT International Trade
Center and aimed at increasing SMI exports and at strengthen-
ing FFE; and
(e) two studies preparing new projects with a significant
potential impact on SMI development.



- 33 -
5.02      The total project cost and financing plan are outlined in Table 5.1
below:
Table 5.1
(amounts in US$ million)
Foreign            Other                     Other
Total   Exchange   Bank   Foreign                   Domestic
Project Component 2/       Cost     Cost       Loan   Sources   Government   Sources
1.  SMI lending program  66.00 1/ 33.00    33.00                                33.00
2. EPPI industrial
estates program
(1979-82)           47.19      9.47     9.50    5.80          21.24       10.65
3. Technical and
technological
assistance           2.35      1.85      1.85                  0.50
4. Export promotion
program              0.30      0.24      0.24                  0.06
5.  Studies                 0.58     0.46      0.41    0.08          0.09
Total             116.42    45.02    45.00    5.88           21.89       43.65
1/   Including permanent working capital, see footnote 2/ page 39.
2/   The above estimates include the following contingencies for items 2
through 5.
Local    Foreign       Total
Cost     Exchange
(amounts in US$ thousands)
2.   Industrial Estates
physical contingencies            2,898        790        3,628
price escalation                  6,398      1,639        8,037
total contingencies               9,296      2,369       11,665
3.   Technical and Technological
Assistance Program                   38        130          168
4.   Export Promotion Component               6         24           30
5.   Studies                                 12         48           60



- 34 -
The export promotion program, the textile study and the technology policy
study (items 4 and 5 of the above table; see also paras 5.26-5.31) will
require about 119 man-months of consulting services, at an average total cost of
$7,400 per man-months.
5.03      Project Objectives.  The project objectives are to:
(a)  assist, through an integrated package of financial and
technical assistance, the restructuring, modernization
and expansion of SMI, in the perspective of Portugal's
accession to the EEC;
(b)  generate foreign exchange earnings or savings, by pro-
moting SMI investment leading to competitive exports
or to efficient import substitution, by strengthening
institutional support for SMI exports and by encouraging
the necessary changes in the incentive structure for
exports;
(c)  ensure the long term viability of existing jobs in SMI
and to create new ones at a moderate capital cost per job
through a selective credit program and support to technical
assistance activities aimed at increasing productivity;
(d)  bring new industries, mostly SMI, to the less developed
regions of the interior, to diversify the economic basis
of these regions and stimulate or tap new resources of entre-
preneurship (notably those of the displaced persons from
the former colonies) by providing assistance to industrial
estates; and
(e)  provide a stimulus to industry to investigate new tech-
nologies either for the creation of new industries and the
restructuring of existing ones, or for the upgrading of
products and production processes.
5.04      The proposed loan would be complementary to the US$50 million Bank
loan to BFN, which became effective in March 1978, and of which about $25 mil-
lion have been committed. 1/ This latter loan is used by BFN in its operation
normally aimed at larger projects and enterprises than those which would be
the target group for the proposed loan.
B. SMI Line of Credit
5.05      Eligibility Criteria.  The proposed SMI line of credit would
finance the foreign exchange cost of projects sponsored by SMI eligible
for IAPMEI's assistance (para. 2.19) and meeting all the following criteria:
1/   The rate of commitment has been increasing recently and the loan is
expected to be almost fully committed by the end of 1979.



- 35 -
(a) technical and financial viability, and, in the case of
projects exceeding Esc. 3 million (US$57,000 equivalent) 1/,
economic viability to be demonstrated on the basis of a
simple economic efficiency test (e.g. the ratio between
investment cost and expected annual cash-flow, both adjusted
at border prices), which would ensure an IERR of at least
11%;
(b) capacity to export directly or indirectly (i.e. as an input
in other products) at least 20% of output to be generated
by the project, or capacity to compete successfully with
imports; more details on the application of the export orien-
tation criterion are given in para. 5.08 below;
(c) total investment cost, including permanent working capital
but excluding land, not exceeding Esc. 30 million (US$570,000
equivalent) 1/. In the case of enterprises proposing an
expansion or modernization project, a maximum of Esc. 75
million (US$1.4 million equivalent) 1/ before expansion or
modernization would be required for fixed assets (excluding
land) but revalued 2/ to take into account recent inflation.
These ceilings on project size and size of existing fixed
assets reflect a double concern (i) to concentrate IAPNEI's
assistance and the impact of the proposed SMI line of credit
on the lower end of the SMI universe where financial assis-
tance needs are more acute, as larger projects and SMI enjoy
easier access to other sources of foreign exchange, including
the Bank loan to BFN; and (ii) not to overtax IAPNEI's and
the commercial banks' appraisal capability which is not
geared for projects and enterprises exceeding the above
magnitudes;
(d) investment cost per job created or maintained 3/ not exceeding
Esc. 1.25 million (US$23,800 equivalent) 1/ 4/. Exceptions
1/   Figures expressed in December 1979 prices.
2/   Most enterprises still carry on their books the historical value of their
assets; IAPMEI and the participating financial intermediaries will be
expected to provide a judgment about the market value of existing fixed
assets, in the light of inflation and possible technological obsolescence.
3/   The rationale for supporting projects which aim more at ensuring the long
term viability of existing jobs rather than at creating new jobs was given
in paragrpah 1.13. In cases where the viability of a whole enterprise (or
subdivision thereof) would hinge upon a modernization investment, the
investment cost per job criterion would be applied in dividing the invest-
ment cost plus the market value (if any) of existing fixed assets by the
total number of employees whose jobs would be maintained.
4/   This ceiling is close to the UPP capital-labor threshold for Portugal,
estimated at US$17,480 in 1977 prices.



- 36 -
could be made for SMI projects with a strong export orienta-
tion (i.e. exporting directly or indirectly over 50% of the
output to be generated by the project) or, with the specific
agreement of the Bank and IAPMEI, when the above cost per
job criterion, although not fulfilled by the applying SMI
itself, is fulfilled by that SMI taken together with other
enterprises that sell to and/or purchase from that SMI.
It has been agreed that the above eligibility criteria would need to be
reviewed from time to time during project implementation. The first review of
the criteria is expected to take place about nine months after effectiveness
of the loan. Possible adjustments following these reviews would be small, and
would in no event change the SMI orientation of the Project.
5.06       Financial Intermediaries.  There is no financial institution in
Portugal specialized in catering to the financing needs of the SMI, nor is any
of the existing institutions ideal for this purpose (Chapter II).  A potential
for SMI lending exists, however, through the joint efforts of the ten commer-
cial banks, BFN and CGD. The SMI line of credit will therefore be made
available to each of these twelve institutions. All of them have expressed
interest in participating in the SMI line of credit. As a condition of
effectiveness, at least 3 institutions accounting for at least 40% of total
assets of the group should adhere to suitable protocol (or standard protocols)
(Project File, item B3) with the Banco de Portugal and IAPMEI based on the
following principles:
(a) IAPMEI or participating financial institutions would identify
eligible SMI projects and appraise them in line with the
procedures defined in paragraph 5.07;
(b) the participating financial institutions alone would decide
whether to finance an SMI project, using the proceeds of the
Bank loan for the foreign exchange (para. 5.10) and their
domestic resources for the local cost of the project if
necessary. IAPMEI would be allowed to provide guarantees
in line with existing regulations (para. 2.24(b));
(c) in the case of export-oriented projects (see para. 5.08 below),
the participating financial institutions would insert in their
loan agreement with the SMI a covenant committing the SMI to
make its best efforts to achieve the export targets in the loan;
(d) IAPMEI would assume a contractual obligation with the Bank
(i) to ensure that the sub-projects financed under the SMI
line of credit are technically, financially and economically
viable and meet the agreed eligibility criteria; (ii) to
follow up the implementation of these projects; and (iii) to
provide them with technical assistance if needed;



- 37 -
(e)  the Banco de Portugal, in view of its impartiality and of
its institutional control function over the banking system,
- would serve as an apex institution, channelling disburse-
ments and repayments on SMI subloans, centralizing the
administration of the line of credit, and collecting docu-
mentation (para 5.08).
5.07      Appraisal and Commitment Procedures.  The procedures for determining
a sub-project suitability for Bank financing would be simple to avoid discourag-
ing SMI and to enlist the participation of the commercial banks. Different
procedures are proposed according to the size of the SMI projects:
(a)  For sub-projects with a total investment cost of over Esc.
15 million (US$285,000 equivalent) 1/, either IAPNEI or
the sponsoring financial institution would prepare an
appraisal report (which in the latter case would have to be
endorsed by IAPMEI) similar to reports currently being
prepared by IAPMEI for typical SMI projects requiring its
guarantee. In addition, to facilitate Bank supervision,
IAPNEI would prepare and send to the Bank (with a copy to the
Banco de Portugal) a form in English summarizing the main
characteristics of the project. Only in the case of projects
of this category, would the Bank's prior approval be required
for commitment of the funds (as for sub-projects in an
usual DFC project). After the Bank will have reviewed at
least 10 such reports and summary forms, it will be decided,
on the basis of IAPNEI's appraisal performance, whether
review by the Bank of only a small sample of SMI appraisal
reports is sufficient for supervision purposes, with author-
ity for commitment of Bank funds being delegated to IAPMEI
for the other sub-projects, as proposed under (b) below.
(b)  For sub-projects costing between Esc. 3 million and Esc. 15
million (US$57,000 and US$285,000 equivalent) 1/ the Bank
would delegate to IAPMEI the responsibility to commit Bank
funds on the basis of its appraisal (or endorsement of the
sponsoring financial intermediary's appraisal) of the project.
On the basis of a summary appraisal report (prepared by itself
or the sponsoring financial intermediary), IAPMEI would send
to the Banco de Portugal a statement certifying that in its
judgment the project is suitable for financing under the Bank
loan. IAPMEI would only have to submit to the Bank summary
tables prepared periodically (e.g. monthly) providing basic
data for such projects. The summary appraisal reports would
be filed by IAPMEI for review by Bank supervision missions.
(c)  For sub-projects costing less than Esc. 3 million (US$57,000
equivalent) 1/, the same procedure as in (b) would apply
1/   Figures in December 1979 prices.



- 38 -
except that responsibility for checking the project's
suitability for Bank financing (including the preparation of
a summary report on the project) would be completely dele-
gated to the participating banks, with IAPMEI's control
(including the preparation of summary tables for the Bank)
taking place only a posteriori, on the basis of periodic
supervision reviews.
5.08      Export-oriented SMI Projects.  IAPMEI would use its best efforts to
ensure that at least 50% of the SMI line of credit is used for export-oriented
projects. For the purpose of monitoring the achievement of this objective,
the following understandings have been reached with IAPMEI:
(a)  Export-oriented SMI projects are defined as those for which it
is expected under the basis of reasonable estimates that the
equivalent of not less than 20% of output to be generated by
the project can be exported;
(b)  For the purpose of estimating the percentage of output that
can be exported, indirect exports would be added to direct
exports; indirect exports will be estimated in multiplying
output to be sold as an input to another Portuguese enterprise
by the fraction of that enterprise's output that would be
exported;
(c)  the accuracy of the export estimates would be demonstrated
on the basis of one or several of the following: (i) past
export performance; (ii) existence of effective marketing
channels abroad; (iii) purchase orders obtained from foreign
importers; (iv) a market study (prepared by FFE, IAPMEI, a
financial intermediary, the SMI applicant itself or another
source) satisfactory to IAPMEI; and
(d)  Except for projects of less than Esc. 3 million, appraisal
reports prepared or endorsed by IAPMEI would quantify for
each export-oriented project the expected annual foreign
exchange earnings; IAPMEI would subsequently monitor the
export performance of the SMI concerned and submit annual
reports to the Bank indicating the degree to which export
targets are being met and the measures taken by IAPMEI (in
collaboration with FFE as appropriate) to assist these SMI.
5.09      Disbursement Procedures.  As a condition of effectiveness for the
proposed Bank loan, the Banco de Portugal would open a special account to be
administered by a small unit comprising one or two professional staff, prefer-
ably with a background in financial control. The unit would be responsible for:
(a)  opening a file on each subproject for which commitment
of Bank funds is approved, upon notification by the Bank
(projects exceeding Esc. 15 million equivalent), by IAPMEI
(projects between Esc. 3 million and Esc. 15 million equiva-
lent), or by the participating financial intermediary (proj-
ects of less than Esc. 3 milion equivalent);



- 39 -
(b) advising at periodic intervals (e.g. monthly) the Bank
of expenses actually incurred against the investment cost
of approved subprojects, certifying that evidence of such
expenses, transmitted by the financial intermediary financ-
ing the projects, is available and satisfactory to the Banco
de Portugal, and requesting the Bank to disburse the funds
against the foreign exchange component of such expenses.
In the case of projects with a cost exceeding Esc. 15 million
equivalent the Banco de Portugal would send normal docu-
mentation to the Bank together with the disbursement
request. This would ensure that the Bank be provided with
evidence of actual expenditures for at least 20% of total
disbursements;
(c) receiving funds disbursed by the Bank and channelling
them to the participating financial intermediaries and
correspondingly collecting from these intermediaries (and
from FGRC to make up for the depreciation of the escudos as
discussed in para 2.06) payments of interest and principal,
and servicing the Bank loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule referred to in para. 5.13;
(d) holding the related documentation on each SMI project
(invoices, cancelled checks, etc.) for review by Bank
supervision missions.
5.10       Definition of the Foreign Exchange Cost.  A single percentage
representing the average import content of SMI investment in general would
be applied to all fixed investment expenditures of sub-projects 1/. This
percentage has been estimated at 65% on the basis of a representative sample,
compiled by the Banco de Portugal, of 200 SMI fixed investment projects
financed by Portuguese financial intermediaries since the beginning of 1977.
Bank funds would therefore not be used on average to finance local cost. At
the same time use of a single percentage would simplify the administration
of the loan and avoid, in the context of the current domestic credit squeeze,
the creation of an artificial incentive to substitute imported to domestic
investment goods to qualify for a Bank sub-loan.
5.11      Terms of Subloans.  The term of the individual subloans would
be in line with the economic life of the SMI Projects being financed with
a maximum of twelve years, including a grace period of up to three years for
repayment of principal. The ultimate beneficiaries would pay to the financial
1/   Use of Bank funds would not be allowed to finance SMI permanent working
capital, given Portugal's higher income status and the fact that financ-
ing for this purpose can be obtained relatively easily from local sources.
With permanent working capital accounting on the average for 20-25% of the
SMI investment projects, 65% of fixed investment cost is equivalent to
about 50% of total investment cost.



- 40 -
intermediary the floating interest rate applicable for similar term escudo
loans (currently 22.25% as explained in para 2.03) and would be eligible for
the same interest subsidies (see paragraph 2.04) as they would be financed by
the banks domestic resources. Interest paid by the beneficiaries of subloans
would be apportioned as follows:
IBRD Rate                               7.90
Financial Intermediary Spread           3.5
IAPMEI Fee                               1.0
Fee of Banco de Portugal 1/             0.75
Balance: Premium to FGRC for
Coverage of Exchange
Risk 2/                       9.1
Current Floating interest rate
for loans of over 5 years            22.25
5.12      Preferential Treatment for the Purpose of Credit Ceilings.  Ceilings
on the overall expansion of credit are part of the stabilization program
agreed between Portugal and the IMF. Credit ceilings are presently fixed
every month for each bank by Banco de Portugal, taking into account changes in
the bank's resources (whether deposits or foreign borrowings). Banco de
Portugal is preparing a new system to fix these ceilings every month for each
bank with the purpose of giving preferential treatment to certain categories
of lending operations considered as priority lending operations. Such opera-
tions will include all operations eligible for interest subsidies granted by
the Banco de Portugal (see para. 2.04-2.05 and Table 5). The preferential
treatment given to these operations will consist in an increase of a bank's
credit ceilings based on a percentage of the priority lending operations made
by that bank in the preceding month. The Government has agreed that this
preferential treatment will also be applied to the entire loans made by a bank
for an eligible SMI project out of the proceeds of the Bank line of credit and
out of the bank's domestic resources. Such preferential treatment will be
important in creating an incentive for intermediaries to use the SMI credit
line rapidly, counter-balancing the negative impact of the additional paper-
work required and the natural tendency, reinforced in the context of credit
restrictions, of intermediaries to discriminate against SMI in favor of less
risky or politically more powerful larger enterprises.
5.13      Size and Terms of the SMI Line of Credit.  IAPMEI estimates that
sub-projects for which it would be approached directly (without prior inter-
vention of the banks) over the two-year period 1979-80 period would require up
to US$40 million in foreign exchange. Although detailed projections could not
be obtained from the banks expected to participate in the scheme at least a
1/   The main purpose of this fee is to compensate the Banco de Portugal for
its assumption of the commitment fee on the unused portion of the Bank
SMI line of credit.
2/   See para. 2.06.



- 41 -
similar amount would be required by all the banks combined. This would
indicate that the proposed scheme could absorb up to $80 million in foreign
exchange over a two year period. However given the country's slowly improving
investment climate and the novelty of the scheme implying collaboration
between the banks, IAPMEI and the Banco de Portugal, it appears reasonable, to
start with a Bank line of credit for SMI of about $33 million, which could
play a catalytic role in attracting other foreign sources of financing. The
final date for project submission and the closing date would be October 31,
1982 and December 31, 1983 respectively. Commitment and disbursement estimates
are given in Table 10.  The proposed $33 million component of the Bank loan to
the Government would have a fixed amortization schedule designed to approximate
the summation of the amortization schedules of the individual subprojects, as
derived from the projected commitments (Table 10) and the assumption that on
the average sub-loans will be for 9 years with a 2-year grace period. The
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and Banco de Portugal is
expected to have similar terms.
C. Industrial Estates Component
5.14      EPPI's Industrial Estates Program.  EPPI's industrial estates pro-
gram, which has been described in Chapter IV above, is a key component of the
Government's assistance and support to restructure industry and stimulate
investments in export-oriented and/or labor intensive SMI in "industrial
development poles" away from the congested coastal areas. US$9.5 million of
the proposed bank loan would be allocated to finance the estimated foreign
exchange cost of the 1979-82 tranche of EPPI's investment program.
5.15      Appraisal Procedures.  Although EPPI's overall investment program
appears sound, a certain flexibility is still needed to allow EPPI to adjust
the size, phasing, and even location of individual estates, in line with
possibly changing conditions. Also the estates have to be appraised on
a phase by phase basis to follow closely past performance and prospects for
occupancy. Although appraisal by the Bank of those estates phases already in
an advanced stage of preparation (second phase of the Braga estate and first
phases of the Guimaraes, Covilha and Evora estates) suggests that they are
well conceived and economically justified, no such direct appraisal by the
Bank has been possible for the other estates or phases in EPPI's investment
program. An approach similar to that used for sector loans, appears therefore
the most appropriate for the industrial estates component of the proposed Bank
loan. Under this approach EPPI would be required to submit an appraisal
report satisfactory to the Bank on each phase of each industrial estate before
disbursement of Bank funds would be allowed for that phase. EPPI's appraisal
reports would present and analyze the same type of data base as that given
in Bank appraisal reports 1/ of industrial estates and follow the same
1/   See particularly the appraisal reports on Mauritius Coromandel (Report
No. 178-MAS, dated June 6, 1973), Thailand Lat Krabang (Report No. 1530-
TH, dated September 16, 1977) and on Colombia Cartagena Industrial Export
Processing Zone (Report No. 1973b-Co, dated May 24, 1978).



- 42 -
methodology in assessing prospective occupancy and in estimating the internal
financial and economic rates of return. Although EPPI would assume overall
responsibility for the preparation of the appraisal reports, EPPI would be
required to obtain as part of the reports a separate assessment by IAPMEI on
the feasibility of EPPI's estimates of occupancy of the pOrtiOhi Uf L!e _staLt
to be built under the phase for which Bank financing is sought. This assess-
ment by IAPMEI would be supported by IAPMEI's views on (a) the region's
potential for and constraints on industrial development, particularly in the
SMI segment of the sector; (b) the justification and the expected impact of
existing Government incentives for such development; (c) the resulting
demand for industrial land and buildings in the region; (d) the supply of
industrial land and buildings in the region; and (e) the proportion of indus-
trial land and buildings requirements expected to be captured on the relevant
portion of the estate at the level of rents projected by EPPI, taking into
account the expected effects of the proposed rent indexing. Being more
decentralized than EPPI and having an intimate knowledge of SMI, IAPMEI is
capable of preparing such assessments and is the most appropriate institution
to provide this type of assistance to EPPI.
5.16      Appraisal reports (Project File, items C8 to C1I) 1/ recently
submitted by EPPI for the first phases of the Covilha, Guimaraes and Evora
estates and the second phase of the Braga estate suggest that EPPI is fully
capable to perform the appraisal role proposed above. Appraisal reports on
the first phases of the Beja and Faro estates will be submitted before June
30, 1979. Should any of the above reports, or of subsequent reports on future
phases, not prove satisfactory, solutions would be sought through alternative
design or phasing of the estates or through substitution by other phases of
viable estates in different locations, to be completed within the 1979-1982
period. If fewer estate investments materialize than presently envisaged we
would consider ultimately reallocating to the SMI line of credit the portion
of the industrial estates component that is not used.
5.17      Terms and Modalities of the Proposed Loan Component for Industrial
Estates. The proposed loan component for industrial estates would be lent
to the Government for fifteen years with a grace period of three years. On
the basis of a subsidiary loan agreement, the loan component would be onlent
by the Government to EPPI at the Bank rate also for fifteen years with a
longer grace period of five years to enable EPPI to achieve full or almost
full occupancy of all estates before repayment of the loan. Confident in its
policy of indexing rentals, EPPI has expressed preference for assuming itself
the exchange risk on the Bank funds; however, it could apply, if it so wished,
to cover part or all of the exchange risk with the FRGC against payment of an
appropriate premium (para. 2.06). The final date for submission by EPPI to
the Bank of an appraisal report on an industrial estate project or phase
1/   These reports, which update the Bank's own appraisal work, do not yet
incorporate an assessment by IAPMEI on the feasibility of EPPI's occu-
pancy estimates. Such assessment is expected to be received by June
30, 1979.



- 43 -
thereof will be October 31, 1982, while the closing date will be December 31,
1983. Disbursement of Bank funds will take place on the basis of a fixed
percentage (20%) of EPPI's investment expenditures for approved phases of
estates projects. Such percentage based on the use of an input-output matrix,
represents the direct and indirect import component of EPPI's investment
program and ensures that on the average Bank funds will not be used to finance
local costs.
5.18      Retroactive Financing.  EPPI's investment program is running on
schedule and is expected to require expenditures in foreign exchange up to
US$0.5 million in the first five months of 1979. Retroactive financing of up
to this amount is therefore recommended for EPPI's investment expenditures
incurred after December 31, 1978.
5.19      Financing for SMI on the Industrial Estates.  Current estimates
are that about US$100 million equivalent including about US$50 million in
foreign exchange, will be needed for investments in all the enterprises that
would settle in the six industrial estates currently planned to be fully
completed by 1985. Given the time lag between construction of the estates and
investment of the enterprises, it can be estimated that at least 40% of these
sums will be needed during the commitment period of the proposed SMI line of
credit (i.e. between mid-1979 and end 1982). Assuming that about half of
these enterprises establishing themselves on the estates will be eligible for
financing under the SMI line of credit a plan of technical and financial
assistance will be worked out by IAPMEI with the assistance of EPPI aiming at
having at least US$5.0 million out of the SMI line of credit channelled for
financing on the estates (para. 4.14).
D. Technical and Technological Assistance Component
5.20      US$1.85 million of the proposed Bank loan, to be lent to the Govern-
ment for 15 years with 3 years of grace, would be allocated to meet the
foreign exchange cost of a package of technological support and assistance
activities designed to help SMI to develop new products, provide quality
checks meeting export demands, and increase competitiveness. The package
which was selected from proposals submitted by LNETI 1/ encompasses pilot:
plants and quality control and testing equipments for three institutes or
laboratories operating under the LNETI, namely the Food Industry Technology
Institute, the Industrial Technology Institute, and the Physics and Nuclear
Energy Laboratory, as well as funds for consultants and travel abroad. IAPMEI
will provide the liaison between the SMI and the research and development
institutes and laboratories. Cost estimates are based on a review of the
various specialized equipments available internationally. The allocation of
funds (detailed in Table 8) would be as follows:
1/   LNETI proposals are detailed in the Project File (item D1).



- 44 -
Foreign Exchange
and Proposed
Total Cost       Bank Financing
(US$ thousand)   (US$ thousand)
(1)  Food Industry Technology Institute               654               520
(2)  Industrial Technology Institute                  690               530
(3)  Physics and Nuclear Energy Laboratory            785               620
(4)  Consultants and Foreign Travel                    60                50
(5) Contingencies and Price Escalation
(about 8%)                                    168               130
2,357             1,850
5.21      Food Industry Technology Institute.  In the food sector, nearly all
the 1,500 enterprises are SMI (including 640 registered with IAPMEI; see
Tables 4, 5 and 6) unable to afford the equipment to conduct quality checks or
to develop original manufacturing processes adapting local raw materials to
domestic and export requirements. This service will be provided by the
Institute, which in collaboration with IAPMEI will also ensure that relevant
information on products and processes is passed on to industry. The equipment
to be purchased would consist of:
(a)  a general purpose food processing pilot plant (including
vegetable processing equipment);
(b)  a pilot plant to test meat processing;
(c)  a unit for development and quality control of animal feed;
and
(d)  units for the development of milk products based on local
raw materials.
5.22      Industrial Technology Institute.  Assistance to this institute
would concentrate on two departments:
(a)  Ceramics Department:  Portugal has a substantial ceramics
industry organized in small productive units with a good
potential for export; however, present production does not
consistently meet international standards for tiles and
sanitary ware, and the proposed purchases are for equipment
needed to advise the industry on raw material mixing and
blending, and on processing and glazing procedures;
(b)  Essential Oil Department:  technological assistance to the
essential oil industry, which provides raw material for the
pharmaceutical and cosmetic industry, is required to increase
recovery yields and to demonstrate how product quality and
uniformity can be improved to meet export demand; equipments
to be purchased are for testing, product development and
quality control.



'N - 45 -
5.23      Physics and Nuclear Energy Laboratory (LFEN).  This laboratory is
essentially a physics laboratory, although some work on the application of
ratio-isotopes is also done. The proposed purchases would be all for the
physics department, which includes sections for metallurgy, electronics and
optics:
(a)  Metallurgy Section:  the Portuguese metallurgical industry
SMI, which are particularly numerous (Table 1) and of which
104 are registered with IAPMEI, do not have the know-how to
control raw material and product quality; the development of
new product lines, is thus hampered and the proposed purchases
will provide the LFEN with suitable means for assisting these
SMI;
(b) Electronics Section: this section has been producing
prototype instruments which are then sold or given to the
budding Portuguese electronics industry; proposed purchases
are intended to complement quality control and in-service
simulation test equipment and include an automatic, pro-
grammable tester for the measurement of high voltage leaks
and of the effectiveness of the applied insulation;
(c) Optics Section: this section has designed a number of
optical lense systems now being produced in apparatus
manufactured by the Portuguese optical industry SMI (e.g.
slide and overhead projectors); prototype lenses had to be
manufactured on production equipment, based on the computer
calculations done at the LFEN; the proposed equipment will
eliminate the need to use expensive machines to make single
lenses, which will greatly reduce the cost of development
work in this field.
5.24      Consultants and Travel Abroad.  US$50,000 would be earmarked to
permit LNETI and IAPMEI to engage on short notice consultants to assist
with urgent production or quality problems, and to provide funds for foreign
travel for selected personnel of client SMI to study new technological
developments or for training purposes.
5.25      Administration of the Technical and Technological Assistance Com-
ponent. Although it is expected that the distribution of funds as shown in
paragraph 5.20 will in general be adhered to, a certain reallocation of funds
would remain possible. The $1.85 million loan component will be administered
by a small committee consisting of one senior representative each from the
Ministry of Industry, LNETI and IAPMEI. This committee will have to approve
the individual expenditures under this component before disbursement requests
are submitted to the Bank. Agreement on the constitution of this committee
as well as on the Government's financing of the complementary local costs will
be sought during negotiations. The LNETI will supervise the installation of
equipments purchased and report on their effectiveness towards achieving their
SMI development objectives. The Banco de Portugal will be the channel for
disbursement requests, disbursement of Bank funds and payments of interest and
principal by the Government.



- 46 -
E. Export Promotion Component
5.26      ITC Program.  A strengthening of the incentive structure and insti-
tutional support for industrial exports is urgently needed and will influence
the success of the proposed SMI development project (Chapter III,C). The
International Trade Center (ITC) from the UNCTAD/GATT has prepared a proposal
for a technical cooperation program for Portugal, over the 1978-81 period,
which would contribute substantially to such a strengthening. This program
(see Project File, item El) includes training for export promotion, market
development activities, export marketing studies, technical assistance towards
strengthening FFE and the Secretariat of State for External Trade, as well as
international expertise on subjects such as export financing, drawback systems,
export procedures, imports of raw materials and intermediary products used by
export-oriented industries, export packing and packaging, etc. The proposed
Bank loan would finance priority activities (para. 5.27) under the ITC pro-
gram that are specifically designed to create the conditions for an expansion
of exports by selected SMI subsectors. Multilateral (UNDP) and bilateral
(Federal Republic of Germany and possibly SIDA) aid agencies are financing
other activities under the same program.
5.27      Activities to be financed (for a detailed description, see Project
File, item E2). The cost of the proposed export promotion component would
be about US$300,000 (see Table 9 for detailed breakdown), including about
US$240,000 in foreign exchange and would include the following activities:
(a) assistance for the establishment of joint export marketing
schemes in selected product groups 1/; this would involve
the stationing in Portugal (preferably in Oporto) of an ITC
consultant for a two-year period;
(b) assistance in carrying out detailed export marketing studies
for the selected product groups; and
(c) assistance in carrying out a study on the incentive structure
for exports, particularly as it affects SMI; this study would
also make recommendations towards better incorporating in
project appraisal techniques export development objectives.
The Bank loan would finance 80% of the above activities and the Government
the remaining 20%. The Bank loan component would be lent to the Government
for 15 years with three years of grace.
5.28      Administration of the Export Promotion Component.  The proposed
export promotion component would be administered by ITC and a counterpart
1/   On the basis of consultations with the Secretariat of State for Foreign
Trade, FFE and IAPMEI, the following preliminary selection has been made:
footwear, wooden furniture, electric and electronic products and parts,
and processed cork products.



- 47 -
group in Portugal, including senior representatives from the Secretariat of
State for Foreign Trade, FFE and IAPMEI. As a condition of disbursement of
Bank funds under this component, the Government will be required to enter into
an agreement with ITC, satisfactory to the Bank, for the execution of this
component.
F. Studies Preparing Future Projects
5.29      The last component of the proposed Bank loan are two studies that
would help prepare future projects with a significant impact on SMI develop-
ment. The total cost of both studies would be about US$580,000 with a foreign
exchange component of about $460,000 of which $410,000 are proposed for
financing under this loan. The Bank loan component would be lent to the
Government for 15 years with three years of grace.
5.30      Textile Study.  The textile and garment industry in Portugal 1/
provides 30% of total employment in the manufacturing industry. Half the
companies in this sector are registered with IAPMEI, and as such represent
35% of the total registered SMI. The textile industry needs to be modernized
and restructured; the export prospects (particularly for garments) are con-
sidered promising, once the industry can adapt to changing from protected
colonial markets to the more competitive European trading environment. The
objective of the proposed study would be to identify the necessary measures
and priority investments for such modernization and restructuring, having
particularly in mind export development objectives. Preparation of this study
is well advanced with Bank and UNIDO staff assistance and technical advice.
It is expected that UNIDO will contribute $80,000 towards such foreign exchange
cost. To enable an early start of the study, it is proposed that $150,000 out
of the proposed Bank contribution could be used retroactively for expenditures
after January 1, 1979. For the implementation of this study, the counterpart
agency in Portugal will be the Gabinete Industria Textil (GIT), a special
administrative unit within the MIT in charge of formulating and implementing
the Government's policy towards the textile sector. The Government will
finance the local costs of the study. More details on this study are in the
Project File (item Fl).
5.31      Technology Policy Study.  Portugal has substantial investment in a
network of laboratories and institutes to provide management training and
technological support and guidance to industry. However, to use this network
to its full potential in meeting Portugal's current problems, LNETI will have
to rationalize its procedures and adapt itself. It would need to pay parti-
cular attention to the Government's objective of enhancing the SMI's contri-
bution to industrial exports and employment by speical analysis and adaptation
of technologies most suitable to enhance the comparative advantage of SMIs.
1/   A review of the problems and prospects of the textile industry can
be found in Bank Report No. 1695-a PO, "Manufacturing Export Industries
in Portugal", main report paras. 3.38-3.62.



- 48 -
The proposed study would (i) evaluate Portugal's industrial technology institu-
tions, technology delivery systems, and incentives for promoting the transfer
of technology; (ii) recommend ways and means of achieving their optimum
utilization in support of Portugal's industrial development objectives, with
particular emphasis on maximizing exports, employment creation and SMI develop-
ment; (iii) undertake a more detailed review of certain industrial subsectors
to test the feasibility of these recommendations; and (iv) provide broader,
medium-term recommendations on technology policy, including identification of
specific investments required for their achievement. More details on this
study are available in the project file (item F2). The counterpart institu-
tion in Portugal to supervise the implementation of the study would be LNETI.
G. Project Benefits and Risks
5.32      Benefits.  The project proposes a multi-pronged approach to tackle
some of the deficiencies that have constrained in the past financial and
technical assistance to SMI and to enable SMI to more fully realize their
potential for growth, exports and employment generation. Institution building
would be combined with improvements in the incentive and policy framework for
industrial exports. Through the strengthening of IAPMEI, EPPI and LNETI, the
MIT would dispose of effective instruments geared to the restructuring needs
of private manufacturing enterprises which hold the key to the country's
future. The SMI line of credit would play a crucial role in encouraging
the commercial banks and CGD not only to reserve an adequate portion of their
financing for SMI but also to develop a capability for long term financing
based on project analysis. Also support for the reform of FFE, with ITC
assistance, would help forge the necessary links between SMI and export
markets.
5.33       300 to 400 SMI projects are expected to be financed under the SMI
line of credit, split about equally between new projects and projects of
expansion or modernization. 2,200-2,500 jobs would be created through new
projects at an average investment cost per job of US$13,000-15,000, while up
to 10,000 jobs would be maintained through investments in existing SMI.
Three-quarters of the SMI projects to be financed are expected to be export-
oriented. More than half of the projects assisted would involve small enter-
prises with 50 or less employees.l/
5.34      The proposed financing of EPPI's program would also make an impor-
tant contribution to a more balanced spatial redeployment of Portugal's
industry and creating new development poles and employment opportunities in
the less developed regions. Ultimately the industrial estates that would be
1/   These figures are based on an analysis of SMI projects assisted by IAPMEI
during the last few years and of its pipeline or projects currently under
consideration.



- 49 -
financed, would facilitate the creation by 1985 of 15,800 jobs at an average
investment cost (for infrastructure and buildings only) per job of about
$3,300. About half of the SMI expected to establish themselves on these
estates would be export-oriented. Through a reduction of the investment
required and the provision of supportive services, the estates would accel-
erate the SMI investment process, stimulate new sources o' entrepreneurship
(in particular displaced persons from former colonies) and give an impulse for
a fuller use of the hinterland regions' potentialities.
5.35      Risks.  The project is complex in design and ambitious in scope,
involving many diverse institutions and a number of components and sub-
components. An important factor for its success will be the coordination
role to be played, under the supervision of the MIT, by the IAPMEI, which will
administer the SMI line of credit, assist EPPI in promoting occupancy of the
industrial estates, and participate in committees overseeing the technological
and technical assistance and export promotion components. Provided it can
retain staff of the right caliber (para. 2.22), IAPMEI has the human resources
and institutional capability to carry the project. Of crucial importance will
be also the active promotion of the SMI line of credit by the commercial banks
and specialized financial intermediaries. Precaution has been taken in the
design of the line of credit to give them adequate incentives to reach out for
eligible SMI throughout the country. Such incentives would include (i) an
attractive spread of 3.5% (para. 5.11); (ii) preferential treatment for tlhe
purpose of the individual bank's credit ceilings (para. 5.12); (iii) IAPMEI's
appraisal capability, guarantee facility, and technical assistance services;
(iv) streamlined procedures reducing additional paperwork to the minimum
(para. 5.07); and (v) competition among the banks for new clients with a
recognized growth potential and hence expected to need the banks' other,
mostly short-term, financial services. Another project specific risk relates
to the occupancy of some of EPPI's currently planned industrial estates.
Projections of demand for occupancy of some of the estates remain somewhat
tentative with much depending on the demonstrating effect generated by the
first occupants of the estate. However, in providing for (i) a separate
assessment by IAPMEI of the feasibility of EPPI's occupancy estimates, (ii) a
review by the Bank of each estate project, (ii) the division of each estate
project in two or more phases, and (iii) a strengthening of EPPI's promotional
capability, in coordination with IAPMEI, the design of the proposed EPPI line
of credit should provide adequate safeguards against the Bank's financing
non-viable estate projects. Furthermore, should any of the estates or estates
phases drop out of EPPI's program (without substitution by other phases of
viable estates to be completed within the time frame of the project), the
amount of funds intended would be reallocated to the SMI line of credit.
5.36      A more general risk is a macroeconomic one.  The possibility exists
that the necessary improvements in the investment climate (para. 1.18) and
reforms in the incentive system (para. 3.13) will take more time than expected,
delaying the recovery of export-oriented industrial investments, while the
continuation of the austerity measures would aggravate the financial crisis of
SMI geared to serve the domestic market and unable to adjust sufficiently
rapidly to the changed environment. All this would result in a lower rate of



- 50 -
investment in SMI and in a slower occupancy of the industrial estates.
Given the expected absorptive capacity of the proposed SMI credit scheme
(para. 5.13), it is, however, unlikely that the SMI line of credit would
not be substantially committed by the end of 1982. Furthermore, all the
above risks are well worth taking in view of the central importance of Si'nu
in Portugal's economic recovery (Chapter I).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal issues:
(a) interest rates policy and interest subsidies (paras.
2.03-2.05);
(b) arrears in the banking system and viability contracts
(paras. 2.16-2.18);
(c) IAPMEI's statute (para. 2.21) and technical assistance
activities (paras. 3.04 and 4.14);
(d) FFE's program and export development contracts (paras.
3.11-3.13);
(e) EPPI's financing plan, rental and financial policies, and
promotional activities (paras. 4.06-4.14);
(f) SMI eligibility criteria, terms of sub-loans, procedures
for the processing of SMI projects, and preferential treat-
ment for the purpose of credit ceilings (paras. 5.05-5.13);
(g) Terms and modalities of the loan component for industrial
estates and appraisal procedures for estates phases (para.
5.15-5.19); and
(h) content and administration of the technical and technological
assistance component, of the export promotion component and
of the studies (paras. 5.20-5.31).
6.02      Subject to the conditions of effectiveness described in paras.
2.21, 5.06, 5.09, and to the conclusion of subsidiary loan agreements satis-
factory to the Bank between the Government and Banco de Portugal (para. 5.13)
and between the Government and EPPI (para. 5.17), the project is suitable for
a Bank loan of $45 million to the Government on the terms outlined in para-
graphs 5.13, 5.17, 5.20, 5.26 and 5.29.



t      f
PORTUGAL
Distribution of Enterprises by Size and Industry
January 1976
Size Categories (no. of workers)
500-     Over
Industry                       5-10      11-20    21-50    51-100    101-500    1,000    1,000          Total
Food                             446       364       321       156         199        10        2        1,498
Beverages                         51        31        27        11           15         1       1          137
Tobacco                            1        -          2        -             1         3      -              7
Textile                          250       276       402       217         286        44       25        1,500
Clothing and shoes               803       460       425       158         113         6       -         1,965
Wood and cork                    650       525       413       136           84         3       1        1,812
Furniture                         47       288       198        53           29         3       3          621
Paper                             76        93        58         28          22         4       3          284
Printing                         278       195       179        47           33         2       2          745
Leather                           77        78        40         18          15         1      -           229
Rubber                            44        25        23          9          13         3       1          118
Chemical                         104        98       109        64           82       12        4          473
Petroleum                          2         1         3         -            1         1       1             9
Non-metallic minerals            368       288       245       122           92        19       6        1,140
Basic Metals                      59        41        46         15          22         8       4          195
Metal products                   599       386       337        148         103         9       4        1,586
Non-electric machinery           172        84        97         53          37         3       3          449
Electrical machinery              85        59        59         33          28         6       5          275
Transport material               631       382       224         85          62         7       5        1,396
Miscellaneous                    188       107       106         35          31         3      -           470
Total Manufacturing            4,931    3,781    3,314       1,388        1,268       148      70       14,900
Source:  Ministry of Labor, Statistical Service                                                                      H
EMENA/IDF
May 1978



PORTUGAL
Distr[bution of Employment by Industry and Size of Establishment
January 1977
Size of Establishment
Industry                        5-10       11-20      21-50      51-100    101-500    501-1000        + 1000          Total
Food                             3,594     5,757      10,773      10,770     30,200        8,846       2,979          72,919
Beverages                          373       499         877         918      2,243          944       2,385           8,739
Tobacco                              6        19          22        -            233        -          1,599           1,879
Textiles                         1,913     4,172      13,003      15,359     58,131       27,624      40,217         160,419
Clothing and Footwear           6,104      7,616      14,185      11,850     21,533        4,662       3,060          69,010
Wood and Cork                    4,835     7,798      12,774       9,481     13,001        4,288       1,033          53,210
Furniture                        4,055     4,951       6,501       3,608      4,572         -          3,896          27,583
Paper                              682     1,406       1,831       1,794      4,958          570       1,056          12,297
Printing                         2,269     3,123       5,826       3,559      6,919        1,163       2,690          25,549
Leather                            575     1,100       1,103       1,342      2,332          590        -              7,042
Rubber                             347       369         645         386      2,370        1,879       1,449           7,445  n
Chemicals                          770     1,316       3,387       4,701     13,955        7,148      18,635          49,912  "
Petroleum                           13        13        -           -          -            -          6,700           6,726
Non-metallic Minerals            3,214     4,520       8,167       8,175     13,762       12,500       8,481          58,819
Basic Metals                       422       695       1,573       1,057      2,477        3,898      14,489          39,100
Metal Products                   4,216     5,667      10,117       9,110     19,435        6,325       7,704          62,574
Machinery                          950     1,345       3,161       6,635     10,729        3,723       6,934          33,477
Electrical Equipment               701       959       1,790       2,175       7,476       6,245      14,650          33,996
Transport Equipment              4,792     5,812       8,145       6,278     12,404        8,706      15,710          61,847
Others                           1,442     1,701       3,552       3,083      9,084        1,478       1,093          21,433
813,476
Total                           41,273    58,838    107,359    100,357    235,814        100,589    154,738          798,968
Source: Ministry of Labor: Statistical Service
Note:  This table was derived from individual sheets for each District.  The totals for horizantal and vertical
columns do not coincide due to untraced errors or omissions, but the magnitude of the discrepancy is small.
EMENA/IDF                                                                                                                    X
May 1978



-53-
Table 3
PORTUGAL
Comparative Levels of Employment, Productivity and Earnings
in Manufacturing Industry, 1976
Number of   Gross Output   Value Added   Renumeration
Number of       Persons          per             p.r            per
Industry                 Establishments    Engaged          Person           Person        Person 1!
1000 Esc        1000 Esc       1000 Esc
Total Manufacturing           14,196         632,229           415            146            110
Small and Medium
Industries
Fish conservation                107          10,865           183             66             67
Bakeries                       2,304          25,172           230             89             66
Woolen textiles                  244          22,167           220             95            101
Knit wear                        508           29,724          266            112              77
Clothing                         327          20,936           251             96             79
Footwear                         389          15,515           224             98             76
Saw mills                        804          16,309           237             78             66
Carpentries                    1,103           8,815           188             79             68
Wooden furniture                 772          15,493           204             91             77
Printing                         885          17,530           226            130            104
Construction ma-
terials in ceramics            351          13,539          200             130             97
Metal products n.e.c.            278          11,407           305            167            115
Textile machinery                 17           1,823           184             88            128
Large-Scale
Industries
Tobacco                            8           2,141         1,546            975            154
Paper pulp                         6           4,039         1,079            482            210
Fertilizers                       24            3,288        1,243            298            185
Glass                             21           9,584           249            134            133
Cement                             9           2,602        1,244             568            185
Rolling mills                       7          5,866           836            204>           212
Ship-building                     22          25,110           299            190            187
Rubber tires                       4           2,235           632            260            186
Petroleum refining                 2           3,094           769            317            145
Sugar refining                     4           1,344        3,136             286            193
Manufacture and
assembly of
automobiles                     20           7,004           904            208            165
Radios, television
and telecommi-
cations equipment               39          17,748          356             170            133
Scale-Neutral
Industries
Cotton textiles                  356          66,500           298            112             92
Cork manufactures                424          16,159           266            101             93
Plastic products                 207          13,624           431            172            115
Elevation and
lifting mlc's                   15           4,263          488             246            167
Conservation of
fruit and vegetables            72           6,712          474             149            109
Paints                             54           3,094          769            318            145
Pharmaceuticals                   90            7,555          505            236            138
1/ Renumeration includes wages, salaries, and other payments to personnel and
employers' social security contributions.
Source: Industrial Statistics, 1976, Volume II. Manufacturing Industries, National
Institute of Statistics.
EMENA/IDF
May 1978



54
PORTUGAL
MAXIMUM INTEREST RATES
(in percent)
Date established                                                 July 1974    December 1974    December 1975             July 1976        March 1977        August 1977           May 1978
Banco de Portugal
Rediscount - first tranche                                            6.5               7.5                6.5               6.5                8.0              13.0               18.0
second tranche                                          6.5               7.5                6. 5              6.5                9.5              15.5 e20.5
third tranche                                           6.5               7.5                6.5               6.5              12.0               18.0               23.0
Deposit Rates
Commercial Banks                                                                              1/                1/                 1/                2/                 2/                2/
Sight deposits or at notice of less than 15 days                       -                1.0                1.0               1.0                1.0               1.0                1.0
Other deposits - notice or time deposits from:
-15 up to 30 days                                                  3.5                3.5               4.5                4.5               5.0                6.0                8.0
-30 to 90 days                                                      3.5               4.5               4.5                4.5                5.0               6.0                8.0
-91 to 180 days                                                     5.5               6.5               6.5                6.5                7.5               9.0               12.0
-181 to 270 days                                                    7.0               8.0                9.5               9.5              11.0               15.0               19.0
-270 days to 1 year                                                 8.0               9.0               9.5                9 5              11.0               15.0               19.0
Investment and Savings Banks                                               3/                 4/                4/                 4/                5/                 5/                 6/
Sight deposits                                                        3.0               4.0                4.0               4.0                4.0               4.0                4.0-
Other deposits - notice or time deposits from:
-15 up to 30 days                                                   3.5               3.5               4.5                4.5                5.0               6.0                8.0
-30 to 90 days                                                      3.5               4.5               4.5                4.5                5.0               6.0                8.0
-91 to 180 days                                                     5.5               6.5               6 5                6 5                7.5               9.0               12.0
-181 to 270 days                                                    7.0               8.0                9.5               9.5               11.0              15.0               19.0
-271 days to one year                                               8.0               9.0                9.5               9.5               11.0              15.0               19.0
-over 1 year                                                        8.5               9.5               10.5-             10.5               12.0              16.0               20.0
-over 2 years-/                                                     9.5       9.5 to 10.5      10.5 to 11.5      10.5 to 11.5       12.0 to 13.0       16.0 to 17.0      20.0 to 21.0
Lending rates
All Credit Institutions
Discount and loa9g:
-up to 90 days- /                                                   6.75              7.75               7.75              8.75              10.25             14.75              18.25
-91 to 180 days 9                                                   7.25              8.25               8.25              9.25              10.75             15.25              18.75
-181 days to 1 year                                                 8.25              9.25               9.5              111.5              12.0              16.5               20.0
-over 1 to 2 years                                                  9.5              10.5               10.75             11.25              12.75             17.0               20.5
-over 2 to 3 years                                                 10.0              11.0               11.75             12.25              13.75             17.75              21.25
-over 3 to 5 years                                                 10.5              11.5               11.75             12.25              13.75             17.75              21.25
-over 5 to 7 years                                                 11.0              12.0               12.25             12.75              14.25             18.75              22.25
-over 7 years                                                      11.5              12.5               12.75             13.25              14.7z             18.75              22.25
1/ Only for deposits of individuals and entities (cooperatives without profit motive and associations and foundations for the public good); for others nil                                              5
2/ Only for deposits of individuals; for others nil
3/ Only for deposits of individuals and entities up to 50,000 escudos; for deposits of individuals and entities above 50,000, 1.0%; for others nil
4/ Only for deposits of individuals and entities up to 70,000 escudos; for deposits of individuals and entities above 70,000, 2.0%; for others nil
5/ Only for deposits of individuals up 70,000 escudos; for deposits of individuals above 70,000, 2.0%; for all others nil.
6/ Only for deposits of individuals and entities up to 100,000 escudos; for deposits of individuals and entities above 100,000 escudos 2%; for all others nil
7/ between May and December 1975 cormercial banks were also all-owed to issue deposits of over one year.
8/ Savings deposits
9/ In July and December 1974, the ceiling was one hundred and twenty days, and not ninety days.
Source: Banco de Portugal



55 -
PORTUGAL
STRUCTURE OF LE.NDING RATES ESTABLISHED BY BANCO DE PORTUGAL
(as of Mlay 1978)
(in percentage)
Maximum Effective Rate (net of subsidies) to he paid by Rorrower
Received by the Sorrow'T           up to         from 91 to       from 181 days        fros over I           from over 2           from over S
from Banco de Portugal-           90 days         180 days          to I year       vear to 2 years       years to S years      years to 7 years       over 7 years
2.  O nry operatio                                                                                       18.25             18.75              20.00                20.5                  21.25                 22.25             22.25
2.  consomer credit-/                                                           -                        26.0              26.5               27.75                28.25                 29.00                  30.00             30.00
3.  Export credit for firms exporting goods or
services whose national value added is .e
30.0% of the respective export price:
a  a)  For working capital                                              5.0-6.75              13.25-11.5        13.75-12,0
b)  Other (for firms whose export products
make them eligible for medium and long
term credit)
-first year                                                        5.5                    -                                    14.50                15.0                   15.75                 16.75             16.75
-second year                                                       3.5                    _                 _                 _                     17.0                   17.75                 18.75             18.75
-third year                                                        2.5                    -                                                         _                      18.75                 19.75             19.75
-fourth year                                                       2.5                                                 -                                                   18.75                 19.75             19.75
-remaining years                                                                                                                                                            87                    ,97                97
-rem3ining years             -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ - ~~~~                                                                        21.25                 22.25             22.25
4.  Investment Credit2
a) Type T: 4/
-first year                                                        10.5                   -                                                          10.0                  10.75                  11.75             11.75
-second year                                                        8.5                   -                 -                                        12.0                  12.75                 13.75              13.75
-third year                                                         6.5                   -                                                          12                    14.75            .    15.75              15.75
-fourth year                                                        4.5                   -                 -                                                              16.75                  17.75             17.7
-fifth year                                                         1.5                                     -                                       -                      19.75                 20.75             20.75
-remaining years                                                     .                                                                                                     1                      17225             17.75
b)  Type II:5/                                                                                                                                                                                          22.25              22.25
-first year                                                         5.5                                                                                                                           2 2 -  15.0  15.75  16.75  16.75
-second year                                                        5.5                   -                                                          15.0                  15.75                  16.75             16.75
-third year                                                         4.5                                                                                                    16.75                  17.75             17.75
-fourth year                                                        3.5                            -                 -                              -                      19.75                 20.75             20.75
-fifth year                                                         1.5                                                                                                                           1 22.25           22.25
-remaining years
5. Credit for restructuring of economically viable
private enterprises in financial di6ficulty (in
the context of viability contracts)-.                                             7/
-first year                                                   5.5-10.5 - 7                                                                     15.0-10.0             15.75-10.75           16.75-51.75       16.75-11.75
6.  Agricultural credit (including agriculture,
forestry, livestock, fishing),                                                6.5                    11.75             12.25              13.5                 14.0                  14.73                  15.75             15.75
1/ Currently, the borrower is charged the ordinary rate by the credit institution and receives the rebate from Banco de Portugal.
2/ These rates do not include a 0.5% surcharge which is applied to all credit operations, with the exception of credit for a) purchase of housing, b) export, c) invesxtent d) agriculture and e) for the
restructuring of economically viable enterprises in financial difficulty Viability Contracts  snd "acordos de sanesmento").  This surcharge is to be paid to the Compensation Fond for Viability Contracta.
3/ includes a 7.75% surcharge to be paid to the Compensation Fund for Viability Contracts
4/ for new investments where the cost per job created is < 750,000 escudos (US$16,304 equivalent) and the national value added is > 60.0%.
5/ for new investments, regardless of the cost per job created, where the notional value added is > 50.0%.
6/ This applies only for private firms.  Subsidies for public enterprises are decided individually with respect to each agreement concluded.
7/ depending on the risk class of the firm in question. Granting of the subsidy is decided annually and is dependent on the firm's meeting certain conditions.
Source: Banco de Portugal.



-  56  -
PORTUGAL
Registered Enterprises Supported by IAPMEI
by Sector and Region at 12/31/77
Northern Region /a                 Cent.al Region/b                   Soothern Region/S                        Acores                            Madei                                Total
No. of   No. of       Value of    No. of   No. of        Value of    No. of   No. of        Value of    No. of   No. of        Valo. of    No. of   No. oi         Value of    No. of   No. of         Value of
Enter-   Persons       Salen       Enter-   Persons       Sales       Enter-   Persons       Sales       Eater-   Persons        Sales       Enter-   Persons       Salea        Enter-   Persons       Sales
Sectors        prises   Engaged   (Eoc 000s)   prises   Engaged   (Eso  OSlo)   pri=es   Engaged   (Esc 000s)   prises   Engaged   (Er  000l)   prises   Engaged   (Esc 000 )   prises   Engaged   (Ese O00s)
Mining                  75      9,773       252,879        25      1,186       309,663        95      3,584       871,549          2         16          950          3        111        14,599        200    14,670    1,449,640
Foodstuffs             128      5,918    2,223,900         92      2,215    1,532,940        264    18,923    4,401,121           20      1,056       475,698        12        457       147,315        516    28,569    8,780,974
Beverages               55      2,589       966,794        21        944       484,504        40      1,619    1,647,981           3         61        13,409         4        162        19,072        123      5,375    3,131,760
Textileo               367    37,056    7,167.985         270    18,198    3,332,251         243      7,280    1,535,529           3         12           821         1         14           ?          884    62,560   12,036,586
Clothing & Shoes       873    35,750   12,869,940          94      4,438       829,982       258    13,460    2,420,046            4         46         3,480        18        927       133,926      1,247     54,621   16,257,374
Wood & Cork            249      7,337     1,401,233       102      5,094       999,313       292      7,614    1,982,254           3        447        55,600         3        227        26,543        649    20,719    4,464,943
Furniture              143      6,003    1,043,667         31      1,725       447,283       159      5,885    1,326,900           -          -             -         1         15            938       334    13,628    3,818,788
Paper                   80      4,484       388,305        15        687       307,191        39      1,507       513,031          2         39         5,638         1         56        10,931        137      6,773    1.225,096
Printing               115      3,990       580,948        58        641       144,113       197      7,624    1,394,481           2         13         1,591         3         54         7,844        375    12,322    2,128,977
Leather                 40      1,960       516,150         9        294       125,546       101      3,285       898,092          -          -             -         1         10              -       151      5,549    1.539,788
Rubber                  20        707       187,561         8        209       100,647        28      1,434       232,788          1          _             -         4        131        25,226         61      2,481       546,222
Chemicals               83      4,514    1,586,903         18        692       218,332       135      6,513    3,476,028           -          -             -         1         17           ?          237    11,736    5.281.263
Petroleom                2         43         5,539         _          _-             -        1          6         2,139          -          -             -         -          -              -         3         49         7,678
Ron metalic
minerals              93      3,925       648,090       178      6,978    2,013,546        193      9,341     1,510,781          6        138        36,219         4        139        28,572        474    20,521    4.237,208
Basic metals            53      3,645       505,249        23      1,390       351,144        28        923       246,574          -          -             -         -           -             -       104     .5,958    1,102,967
Metal products         390    17,390    3,058,716         145      7,265    1,548,227        275    10,823    3,752,657            2         17         5,267         -           -             -       812    35,495    8,364,867
Machinery              134      5,742    1,154,559         24      1,083       260,317       177      6,354    1,809,877           -          -              -        2         28          4,766       337    13,207    3,229,519
Elect. machines         59      2,455       494,809        14        601        98,663         77     3,581    1,229,135           -          -             -         -           -             -       150      6,637    1,822,607
Material                95      3,800       856,776       102      3,819    1,239,353        148      4,615    1,360,870           3         55        12,239          1        ?            ?          349    12,289    3,469,238
Other                  144      4,581       957,432        52      3,159    1,157,146        125      5,004   11,450,418           -          -              -        -           -             -       321      1,274    3,564,996
Construction           174    10,645    1,644,663         123      4,101       848,144       408    12,717    3,506,347            8        817        92,276        13      1,038       132,439        726    29,318    6,223,869
Transport               55      3,033       567,947        34      1,355       373,698        79      2,169       687,692          8        701        97,264         5        183        22,876        181      7,441    1,749,477
Tourism                 10        390        41,212         7         86        10.173        44    1J206         252 909          5         20         6 928         -           -             -        66      1,702       311J222
Total          3,447   175,730   39,121,257    1,522    66,160   16,732,176    3,406   135,467   36,509,209                 72      3,483       807,320         77      3,559       575,047   15,701   704,127   93,745,059
/a   Oporto regional office and Braganca branch office.
/b   Coimbra regional office and Covilha and Viseu branch offices.
/n   Lisbon head office and Faro and Evora branch offices.
Source: IAPMEI
EMENA /I DF
July 1978



57 -
PORTUGAL
Investment Cost of EPPI's Industrial Estates Program (Six Estates)
Full Investment Cost (1977-1985)                                                    Investment Expenditures During 1979-82)
Local   Foreign   Total         Local    Foreign    Tetal           Baseline          Local   Foreign   Total           Local   Foreign    Total           Baseline
Escudos Millions                   US$ Millions                   Cost                 Escudos Millions                   us$ Millions                   Cost
Basic Infrastructure
Preliminary studies design                               6.1      -          6.1        159.6      -         159.6            -
Preliminary engineering                                  6.1      -          6.1        159.6      -         159.6            --                         -----
Land survey                                               1.6     -          1.6         43.1      -          43.1            -
Land purchase                                            37.0     -         37.0        968.4       -        968,4            -                  1.5     -          1.5          40.0      -          40.0            -
Leveling and road project design                         6.2      -          6.2        162.2      -         162.2            -                  1.7     -          1.7          44.5      -          44.5           -
Sewage and treatment plnt. design                         5.6     -          5.6        147.3      -         147.3            -                  2.5     -          2.5          65.3      -          65.3           -
Other engineering project design                          2.3     -          2.3         60.2       -         60.2            -                  1.8     -          1.8          47.1      -          47.1            -
Land leveling, and sewage work reads                   186.6    56.2       242.8     4,386.7   1,471.6   6,152.3              -                129.6    41.1      170.7       3,390.0  1,076,4   4,466.5              -
Sewage plant and equipment                              28.0    13.5        41.5       733.3      352.3   1,085.6             -                21.6      9.8       31.5         566.6    257.4       824.0            -
Water supply network                                     23.4     5.0       28.4        611.8      129.8     741.6            -                 14.1     3.6       17.7          368.4      94.9     463.3            -
Energy supply network                                    20.6     5.9       26.5        538.6     154.6      693.2            -                 20.5     4.3       24.8         536.3    113.1       649.4            -
Sundry infrastructures                                  14.7      3.6      18.3        384.0       94.7      478.7            -                 15.2     2.6       17.8         396.3      69.3      465.6
Subtotal                                       338.3    84.2      422.5      8,848.7   2.203.1  11.051.8            23.1              208.5    61.6      270.1        5,454.5  1,611.1   7.065.7           19.9
Industrial Buildings
Advanced factories                                     908.2   235.2   1,143.4    23,758.0   6,153.5  29,911.5                -                693.9   170.6      864.5      18,151.3  4,463.8  22,615.0              -
Norsery factories                                       35.1      9.2       44.3        917.8     240.0   1,157.8             -                 29.8     7.3       37.1         779.9    191.8       971.7
Warehouses and workshops                                 84.3    22.1      106.4     2,205.2      577.3   2,782.4             -                 69.3    17.0       86.3       1,812.5    445.8   2,2583               -
Subtotal                                     1,027,6   266.5   .,294.1    26,881.0       6,970.7  33,851.7          70.6              793.0   195.0      998.0       20,743.7  5,101.3  25.845.0           72.8
Social and Administrative Services
Administrative offices                                   31.6     6.6       38.2        826.3      173.0     999.3            -                 30.9     5.4       36.3         808.5    141.1       949.6            -
Canteen/Cafeteria                                       30.8      6.5       37.3       806.1      168.0      975.0            -                 29.4     5.1       34.6         769.4    134.3       903.7            -
First-aid Center                                          6.9     1.5        8.4        180.9      37.0      218.8            -                  6.7     1.2        7.9          176.2     30.8      206.9            -
Nursery/Kindergarden                                     21.8     4.6       26.4        570.1     119.5      689.6            -                 14.7     2.6       17.3          384.7     67.1      451.8            -
Sundry equipment                                         4.2      1.2        5.3        109.3      30.1      139.4            -                  3.2     0.6        3.8           98.0     83.4       14.5            -
Subtotal                                       95.3    20.2      115.5      2.492.7      529.6   3,022.3            6.3               84.9    14.8       99.8        2,222.2    387.8   2,610.0            7.3
Baseline Cost (1977 prices) I                          1,461.1   370.9   1,832.1         38,222.4   9,703.3  47,925.7        100.0             1,086.4   271.4   1,357.8       28,420.5  7,100.2  35,520.7           100.0
Contingencies
Physical unforeseen 2/                                 131.9    38.1       170.0     3,450.6      996.9   4,447.4            9.3               110.8    27.9      138.7       2,898.2    729.5   3,627.7            10.2
Price Escalation 3/                                  1,140.4   289.5   1,429.9       8,012.5   2,033,3  10,045.9            21.0              906.0   226.5   1,132.6         6 397.7  1.639.6   8,037.3           22.6
Subtotal                                     1,272.3   327.6   1,599.9    114,463.1   3,030.2  14,4933              30.2            1,016.8   254.4   1,271.2         9.295,9  2,369.1  11.605.0           32.8
Total Project Cost                                     2,733.4   698.5   3.431.9    49,685.5  12.733.5  62.419.0                 -             2.103.3   525.8   2,629.1       37,716.4  9,469.3  47 185.7
1/ The average eachange rate for 1977 of US$1   Eec. 38.227 has been used.
2/ Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% of base line cost for civil works and buildings.
3/  Inflation rates in escudos are projected at 23% in 1978, 18% In 1979, 15% in 1980, and 10% in 1981 and thereafter;
exchange rates to the dollar have been projected to average US$1 = Esc. 504 in 1979; Esc. 54.4 in 1980;
Esc. 57.2 in 1981, Esec, 60 in 1982, Esc. 63 in 1983, Esc. 66.2 in 1984 and Esc. 69.5 in 1985.



58                                           Table 8
PORTUGAL
Technical and Technological Assistance Program
(amounts in US $ thousands)
Foreign Exchange Cost and
Component                                                                       Total Cost             Proposed Bank Financing
Food Industry Technology Institute                                                   654                           520
A. General food processing pilot plant
(including vegetable processing)                                                292                           230
B.  Pilot ?,lant to test meat processing                                              62                            50
C. Unit for development and quality control
of animal feed                                                                  200                           160
Industrial Technology Institute                                                      690                           530
A. Testing and pilot plant equipment for
ceramics                                                                        500                           390
B. Equipment for product development and
quality control of essential oils                                               190                           140
Laboratory for Physics and Nuclear Energy                                            785                           620
A. Analytical equipment to assist the
metallurgical industry (including foundries
and extractive metallurgy)                                                      280                           250
Equipment for a powder metallurgy laboratory                                    400                           270
C. Ouality control equipment for electronic
components (measurement of high voltage
leaks and insulation)                                                            40                            40
D. Equipment to make prototype lenses for the
optical industry                                                                 65                             60
Consultants and Foreign Travel                                                        60                            50
A.  Contingencies and price escalation (about 8%)                                    168
TOTAL                                                                              2,357                        1,850
EMENA/IDF



- 59 -
PORTUGAL
SMI DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXPORT PROMOTION COMPONENT
1979             1980             1981               1982            Total
man/    US $    man!    US$    man/          US-$     man!      US $   man/      us $
months           months           months              months            months
Consultant on Joint Export Marketing        4    20,000    12    60,000       8       40,000                       24     120,000
Export Marketing Consultants
(product specialistsd                                  6    30,000       4      20,000       4    20,000    14        70,000
Consultant on Export Incentives             3    15,000      2    10,000                                            5      25,000
Travel (consultants)                              5,000           30,000              10,000            10,000              55,000
Contingency                                _                _     10,000       _      10,000      _     10,000              30,000
TOTAL                              7     40,000    2U   140,000    12        80,000       4    40,000    43       300,000
Source: ITC, Project File, item E 2
EMENA/IDF
February 1979



_ 60 -
Table 10
PORTUGAL
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements, by quarters (in US$ millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year
and Quarter Ending:
SMI Line       EPPI Line       Technology               Export                                        Total
of Credit!1    of-Credit       Component        Promotion Component        Studies       Total      Cumulative
FY80
September 30, 1979              -              .6               .1                    (-                   -            .7            .7
December 31, 1979               -              .6              ..1                    (-                   -            .7           1.4
March 31, 1980                   .2            .7               .1                    (-                   -          1.0            2.4
June 30, 1980                   .6             .7               .2                    (.1                  -          1.6            4.0
FY81
September 30, 1980             1.0             .7               .2                    (-                  (-          1.9            5.9
December 31, 1980              1.7             .7               .2                    (-                  (-          2.6            8.5
March 31, 1981                 2.1             .7               .2                    (-                   -          3.0           11.5
June 30, 1981                  2.8             .7               .3                    (.1                 (.1         4.0           t5.5
FY82
September 30, 1981             3.1             .6               .2                   (-                   (-          3.9           19.4
December 31, 1981              3.6             .6               .1                    (                   (           4.3           23.7
March 31, 1982                 3.8             .6               .1                    C-                  (-          4.5           28.7
Jrne 30, 1982                  3.6             .6               .1                    (.1                 (.2         4.6           32.8
FY83
September 30, 1982             3.1             .3                                     -                    -          3.4           36.2
December 31, 1982              2.6             .3               -                     -                    -          2.9           39.1
March 31, 1983                 1.9             .3               -                      -                   -          2.2           41.3
June 30, 1983                  1.5             .3               -                      -                   -          1.8           43.1
FY84
September 31, 1983               .9            .3               -                     -                    -          1.2           44.3
December 31, 1983                .5            .2               -                      -                   -            .7          45.0
1/ Disbursements of the SMI line of credit are projected on the assumption that (a) commitments will occur between
mid-1979 and end-1981, with the quarterly rate of commitment gradually growing to a plateau of $4.0 million per
-uarter by nid-1980; and (b) disbursements are made on average over the two years following commitments.
EMENA/IDF



-61 -
PORTUGAL
SMI DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. The Manufacturing Sector and the Financial System
Al    Survey of Small and Medium Scale Industry in Portugal, August 1978.
A Study by Bank staff, with the assistance of an ILO Consultant.
A2    Compilation of recent legislation on financial matters, recent
annual reports of commercial banks, CDG and BFN, and summary
tables on their credit and deposit activities and on their more
significant ratios.
A3    Selected documents on the viability contracts.
B. IAPMEI and the Administration of the SMI Line of Credit
Bl    IAPMEI, Relatorio de Actividades de 1977, Annual Report for 1977.
Annual Report for 1978 is forthcoming.
B2    IAPMEI, Plano de Actividades de 1979.  Plan of activities for 1979.
B3    IAPMEI, Projecto de Conformacao e Funcionamento de uma Linha de
Credito do Banco Mundial para Peguenas e Medias Empresas Industriais,
May 1978. Proposal for the administration of the SMI line of credit,
including draft protocol between Banco de Portugal, IAPMEI and the
participating financial institutions.
B4    IAPMEI, Relatorio de Conjuntura.  Perspectivas da situaQao economico-
financeira em dez subsectores industriais de forte representatividade
PME, 1977. Review of prospects in 10 SMI subsectors.
C. Industrial Estates Component
Cl    BFN, Estrutura e Crescimento Economico do Distrito de Braga,
Analise da area adjacente do polo Braga-Guimaraes, 1974. Detailed
regional development study of the Braga-Guimaraes region.
C2    Relatorio do Sub-Grupo de Trabalho Visando a Reorganizacao da
Industria de Lanificios e a criacao de Novas Industrias na Cora
da Beira, 1972. Study on problems of industrial restructuring and
diversification in the Covilha region, by a Working Group in the
preparation of the Fourth Development Plan.



- 62 -
C 3   Comissao de Planeamento da Regiao do Sul, Analise e Diagnastico
da Situacao Regional. Escolha dos objectivos e Opcoes de Desenvol-
vimento, 1972. Detailed analysis of development potential and
constraints in the Southern region, as part of the preparation for
the Fourth Development Plan.
C 4   Comissao de Planeamento da Regiao do Sul, Implantacao dum Pargue
Industrial em Evora, 1976. Working paper on the feasibility of
an industrial estate in Evora.
C 5   Comissao de Planeamento do Sul, Polo de Crescimento de Faro-Olhao
1973. Regional development study on industrial potential and
constraints in the Faro district.
C 6   Instituto Nacional de Investigacao Industrial, Estudo Preliminar
da ImplantaQao de Pargues Industriais no Algarve, 1970. Prelimi-
nary study on the feasibility of industrial estates in the Algarve
region, having particularly in mind the Faro district.
C 7   EPPI, Sintese Global do Programa de Pargues Industriais da EPPI,
December 1978. General report on EPPI's investment program over
the 1978-85 period, including detailed financial projections.
C 8   EPPI, Projecto do Pargue Industrial da Covilha, October 1978.
C 9   EPPI, Projecto do Pargue Industrial de Braga, December 1978.
C 10  EPPI, Projecto do Pargue Industrial de Guimaraes, December 1978.
C 11  EPPI, Projecto do Pargue Industrial de Evora, December 1978.
D. Technical and Technological Assistance Component
Dl    LNETI, Short-term programmes that could benefit from World Bank
loans, June 1978. This document is accompanied by documentation
on a number of laboratories and research institutes.
E. Export Promotion Component
El    ITC, Draft Proposal for an Integrated, Large-Scale, Technical
Cooperation Programme in Portugal, June 1978.
E2    ITC, Proposal for a Project in Export Promotion within the Framework
of lthe IBRD Project on SMI in Portugal, January 1979.
F. Studies Preparing Future Projects
Fl    Terms of Reference for the Study on Restructuring the Portuguese
Textile and Garment Industries, September 1976.
F2    Portugal Technology Policy Study, Terms of Reference (forthcoming).



PORTUGAL
IAPMEI ORGANIZATION
Board o Do-r-eto  Sos
|  President  |                                                            Co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rynsentative ord of sst
L n  <                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Comntral Banks
Board of Dirtotors                                                      ~~~~~~~~Mminity of Lbor
Caiteral C-dmer D Mp.sitn    d
Presidentdo F- t dV , E IP.,t....
(Admin ~ ~   ~ ~ reido )CoslaivO nutrialtOtaiod    ConerostsP
Mr. Foinecri                                                                                 ofard  pr  a I tii   of
C1i  GerPlann dg e D enPoto-
Vi-ce                                        nPaident                                                                                                              Comeneriretoot
Food ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ldi .1tie  CMetaltio Imdritraial QualitynContro
_   Paper,          Chemicals             Industries        Typists        IMr.Foosera                                              Board                                                           nstitut
MetallurgV   Pinting                                                                   Publiations                      M/nin                      Te ttilas                  Cedit Contro              CPlannin DeAdinstatonNeenoict
Electrical    Cnstruction                                                                                                        Mtallurgy                    Prducts                   InVicetiPresident
(PFrtao Mng                                                             M-
Imr.                                                                        Eed"io-c                    Plastic
(II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
WoMdn FurniaueNo   ealWo
Plastics ~ ~  ~     ~    att                 Cndusicies InutrepTpstenrrato
Coetalurk y                       P    g                                                                                 R E I  I I C  A                                               L     B R  N N C  F I C P
Metal ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ubiain                                                                                                                     Crdinonroustries                                   dmnstato
Con str oot ion        Furni~~tur                                                                                                        C                                                                                                                                  NeroiFtPAnODA
CoordinanLantoFnacalAcinsApnrsl
Bleotnical                   Cnr utin                                                                                                             Al                                                  Inr ma ti             FMegeres in oig 
Food                    Mining~~..            ..i.i                 ..IAdiii.i-                           C di.i                           Metal    i")               M, Cyil                    PulciyTaiig
Pnintirt                                                                                                                                   ledustriosP.liti~-mm,        -W,iC,dr Robbr-Fcoon,,elA. W.i.                                                                        -Pllt
Troriler                                                                                                                                           Eleotni-al                  Pla stic
Mining                                                                                                                                             Electronics                 Cork
Wooden Furniture                                                                                                                                   Nor-metal                   W2od
Cork                                                                                                                      REGIDNAL   BRANCHES                                   Pitn
Metal Industies
Coondloator~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~APE
14)  (3f       (41         (SI          (Sfj    4   (S        Tft( IAffM12
of osbib i Perto  23
Coir,ibre 12
Brenhb,s  22
Worldi Beeb,I - 20313



PORTUGAL
ORGANIZATION CHART
EMPRESA PUBLICA DE PARQUES INDUSTRIAIS (EPPI)
(as of November 1978)
Audit Commission
Board                   (3 members, including one
(3 Managers)                  chartered accountant)
Managers Office |
1    i Secretary)   I
Cn Technical and Projects       Promotion and Commerciadmo nistration and Finance|                                      O atnd
|  Department        l      l      Department         ll                     Department         |Department                      l
Bu,Iding Division        Design Divisio             EngineeringDvionDivisin                                                        nService
[~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rn                                                                        Diiso                      S 1[<   Fnnervi cconine
Lawyer         1
Chief Architect 1                                                            Technician      1
Chief Engineer 1        Architects      2                                    Chief Engineer 1         Teleph. Oper.   2       Chief Economist 1
Civil Engineer 1        Draftsmen       4                                    Economist       1        Driver          1       Accountant       1
Technician     1        Secretary       1        Civil Engineer 1            Secretary       1        Clerks          3       Officer          2
Total          3        Total           8        Total          1            Total           3        Total          9        Total            4
r                             I                                         1                                   l
Braga Estate                 Guimaraes Estate   1                      Covilha Estate                       Evora Estate
Director (Economist)  1
Officers              3        Civil Engineer        1                    Civil Engineer         1          Civil Engineer         1
Technicians           3        Technician (vacant)   1                    Technician             1          Technician (vacant)    1
Total                 7        Total                  2                   Total                  2          Total                  2
Grand Total 42
World Bank -20314



A 0~~~~lNG0
~~~~  ADDAJTES~ ~~~~~~~0203   4   0 IOMTR
C, ~    ~     U
SMAL AND MEDiUM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPA  



