Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7601-MX 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Environmental Sustainability Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 21, 2008
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7601-MX 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 21, 2008, entered into between UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(
“Borrower”), represented by its SHCP and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing 
in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided 
to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia: of (a) the actions which the Borrower has already 
taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework. 
 
Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set forth 
in the table in Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the 
Program), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the Borrower’s income, budgetary 
and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million seven hundred fifty-one 
thousand eight hundred and eighty Dollars ($300,751,880), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
The Borrower’s 
Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
pursuant to this Section is the 
Director General 
of
BANSEFI, or the 
Director General 
Adjunto de Banca Institucional 
of BANSEFI or any person or persons whom such 
representatives shall jointly or severally designate in writing. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
Page  3
-2- 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II.B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, through BANSEFI, shall 
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved 
in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; 
and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation that would have 
Page  4
-3- 
 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action 
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
3.02 
(a)  
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (
Contrato de Mandato
)
among SHCP, SEMARNAT and BANSEFI, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 
 
(i) 
BANSEFI agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to 
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, BANSEFI agrees to represent the 
Borrower vis-
à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify 
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds in 
compliance with the terms of this Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower, through SHCP and SEMARNAT, shall cooperate fully 
with BANSEFI to ensure that BANSEFI is able to comply with all of 
BANSEFI’s obligations referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through SHCP and SEMARNAT, shall exercise its rights and 
carry out its obligations under the 
Contrato de Mandato
 in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to 
enforce any provision of the 
Contrato de Mandato
.
In case of any conflict 
between the terms of the 
Contrato de Mandato
 and those of this Agreement, the 
terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which, in the opinion of the Bank, shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) T
he
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has, in the opinion of the 
Bank, become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely 
affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
Page  5
-4- 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been executed by the parties thereto; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower (in its legal opinion) and BANSEFI (in a separate legal opinion 
satisfactory to the Bank, issued by BANSEFI counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of, the Borrower and BANSEFI and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BANSEFI 
in accordance with the 
Contrato de Mandato
’s terms. 
 
5.02 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen 
(18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on April 2, 2010. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, t
he
Borrower’s Representative is 
the 
Titular de la Unidad de 
CréditoPúblico
 of SHCP. 
 
6.02. The 
Borro
wer’s Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions is: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
 Palacio 
Nacional 
 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
 Colonia 
Centro 
 
06000 México, D.F. 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  6
-5- 
 
AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By
 /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
 
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Borrower under the 
Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Borrower, through its Secretariat of Tourism, has adopted the development of 
Agenda 21 action plans in 35 tourism destinations (additional to those that were in effect in 
December, 2006). 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through PROFEPA, has increased by at least 50% the number of tourist 
enterprises participating in its environmental quality certification program (
Programa de Calidad 
Ambiental Turística)
(additional to those participating in December, 2006). 
 
3. 
The Borrower has approved and started implementation of its 2007 
–
2012
Energy Sector 
Program which promotes the implementation of energy efficiency targets, promotes non-hydro 
renewable energy sources and regulates the reduction of emissions of sulfur compounds. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has increased CONAFOR’S budgetary allocation, by at least 80% (from 
2006) to support: (a) greater community access to financial services; (b) the expansion of 
programs supporting sustainable forestry management; and (c) compensation to eligible forest 
land owners for environmental services. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has issued specific provisions (Article 279) for the return of wastewater 
discharge fees, through CONAGUA, to municipalities and industries pursuant to the 2008 
Federal Rights Law (
Ley Federal de Derechos
). 
 
6. 
The Borrower, through CONAGUA, has adopted operational rules dated December 28, 
2007 (
Reglas de Operación para los Programas de Infraestructura Hidroagrícola, y de Agua 
Potable, Alcantarillado y Saneamiento a cargo de la Comisión Nacional de Agua, aplicables a 
partir del 2008
)
promoting efficient water use in its eight ongoing programs in irrigation, 
drainage, water supply, wastewater and sanitation. 
 
7. 
The Borrower’s SEMARNAT and SAGARPA have signed a collaboration agreement for 
the implementation of joint actions to: (a) reduce negative environmental impacts of agricultural 
practices within the Mexican Mesoamerican Biological Corridor; and (b) include environmental 
criteria in the Operating Rules of SAGARPA’s Sustainable Use of Natural Resources in Primary 
Production Program. 
 
8. 
The Borrower, through CONAVI, has published new cross-sector guidelines, dated 
March, 2008, for incorporating environmentally sustainable practices into housing construction 
and is offering, through its main subsidy program, incentives to encourage their voluntary 
adoption. 
Page  8
-7- 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may, or may cause BANSEFI to, withdraw the proceeds of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The 
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Single Tranche 
 
300,000,000.30 
Front-end Fee 
 
751,879.70 
Premia for Interest 
Rate Caps and 
Interest rate Collars 
(amounts due under 
section 2.07 (c) of 
this Agreement) 
 -0- 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
300,751,880 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree: 
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this
 account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on November 15, 
2023. 
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Agenda 21” means the Borrower’s action framework for the sustainable development of 
tourist activities. 
 
2. “BANSEFI” 
means 
Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros
,
S.N.C., 
Institución de Banca de Desarrollo
,
a
Mexican development bank serving as the 
Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan. 
 
3. “CONAFOR” 
means 
Comisión Nacional Forestal
,
the Borrower
’s National Forestry 
Commission. 
 
4. “CONAGUA” 
means 
Comisión Nacional de Agua
,
the Borrower’s National Water 
Commission. 
 
5. “CONAVI” 
means 
Comisión Nacional de Vivienda
,
the Borrower’s National Housing 
Comission. 
 
6. 
“Contrato de Mandato” means the contract referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Energy Sector Program” means the Borrower’s 2007-2012 program which has as its 
main objective to establish commitments, strategies and lines of action in the energy 
sector. 
 
8. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
Page  11
-10- 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
9. 
“Federal Rights Law” means the Borrower’s 
Ley Federal de Derechos
,
published in the 
Borrower’s official gazette (
Diario Oficial de la Federación
)
on
December 24, 2007. 
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
11. 
“Mexican Mesoamerican Biological Corridor” means the National Biodiversity 
Commission’s program for the Borrower’s 4 southern States. 
 
12. “PROFEPA” 
means 
Procuraduría Federal de Protección al Ambiente
,
the Borrower’s 
Attorney General for Environmental Protection. 
 
13. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to integrate 
sustainability considerations into the Borrower’s tourism, energy, forestry, water, 
agriculture and housing sectors and set forth or referred to in the letter dated September 1, 
2008 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
14. “SAGARPA” 
means 
Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganaderia, Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y 
Alimentación
,
the Borrower’s Secretariat of Agriculture. 
 
15. “SEMARNAT” 
means 
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
,
the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources. 
 
16. “SHCP” 
means 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the Borrower’s Secretariat of 
Finance and Public Credit. 
 
17. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee and 
Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of 
the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association (“Preparation Advance”), 
the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw from the Loan Account on or 
after the Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding 
Page  13
-12- 
 
balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to 
pay all accrued and
 
unpaid charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank 
shall pay the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and 
shall cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
Page  14
-13- 
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.” 
 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Loan Agreement 
and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
