Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE
 
Report No.: AB3424  
 
Operation Name 
Environment Development Policy Loan III 
(ENVDPL III) 
Region 
Latin America and Caribbean 
Sector 
Environment (100%) 
Project ID 
P095510 
Borrower(s) 
United Mexican States 
Implementing Agency 
Secretariat of Environment and Natural 
Resources (SEMARNAT)  
Date PID Prepared 
December 3, 2007 
Estimated Date of Appraisal Authorization 
March 18, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board Approval 
May 29, 2008 
I. KEY DEVELOPMENT ISSUES AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
 
The costs of environmental degradation and depletion of natural resources in Mexico have fallen 
steadily from 10.9% of GDP in 1999 to 9.2% in 2004. Though still high, these figures illustrate 
Mexico뭩 efforts to reduce the loss of social welfare associated with environmental degradation and 
unsustainable use of natural resources, as well as the constraints that these costs impose on the 
country뭩 social and economic development. Furthermore, they indicate the need to provide 
continuity to the integration of environmental considerations in key productive sectors to (i) use 
Mexico뭩 richly endowed natural environment as a source of competitive advantage to meet the 
demands of more selective and lucrative markets; and (ii) conduct interventions to mitigate the 
negative impacts of environmental degradation, including climate change, on human health, 
productivity, and competitiveness. 
 
The GOM presented in 2007 its National Development Plan (NDP) 2007 - 2012, which outlined an 
extensive reform program centering on the following five strategic goals: (i) State Security and 
Rights; (ii) Economic Competitiveness and Employment Generation; (iii) Equity and Opportunity; 
(iv) Environmental Sustainability; and (v) Effective Democracy. The Plan뭩 Environmental 
Sustainability pillar stresses the importance of the environment in enhancing the country뭩 
competitiveness and both economic and social development, and the importance of mainstreaming 
the sustainability principle in Sectoral policies. 
 
Also in 2007, SEMARNAT prepared the National Strategy on Climate Change (NSCC), which 
identifies specific measures for mitigation and provides rough estimates of their potential for 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions, as well as measures to enhance adaptation to climate 
variability. This Strategy broadly outlines Mexico뭩 voluntary efforts to cut GHG emissions as a 
contribution to the objectives of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. 
The NSCC also proposes the necessary studies to refine mitigation goals, delineates the country뭩 
capacity-building needs for adaptation to climate change, and contributes to the development of 
strategies, priorities and policies, which will result in a Special Climate Change Program under the 
2007-2012 NDP. 
 
Page  2
2
At the outset of the current administration, the GOM requested the Bank뭩 support for the strategic 
components of its program described above. ENVDPL III aims to finalize and consolidate reforms 
to ensure environmental sustainability of the tourism, energy, forestry, and water sectors initiated 
under the first two operations (ENVSAL I and ENVDPL II) and mainstream the implementation of 
mitigation and adaptation actions and measures under the National Strategy on Climate Change. 
 
II. PROPOSED OBJECTIVES
 
The third operation will assist the Mexican Government to implement actions to address 
environmental sustainability challenges in key economic sectors: 
 

Tourism 

Energy 

Forestry 

Water 
 
In addition to enhancing environmental sustainability of these sectors, ENVDPL III will support the 
development and refining of specific policies, strategies and measures related to 
climate change
,
focusing on climate change mitigation and adaptation. 
 
III. PRELIMINARY DESCRIPTION
 
This development policy loan (DPL) is the final operation in a series of three loans. The series, 
which spans a six-year period, aims to support the government뭩 efforts to: (i) mainstream 
environmental concerns in the development agenda of key sectors (tourism, energy, water and 
forestry) and (ii) improve the efficiency and effectiveness of local environmental management 
processes in Mexico. Additionally, as a new component in the series, the ENVDPL III will support 
the GOM in the development and refining of specific policies, strategies and measures related to 
climate change, focusing on measures which address adaptation and mitigation actions across 
economic sectors. ENVDPL III will also support actions that promote environmental sustainability, 
which, in addition to reducing poverty and inequality and increasing competitiveness, is one of the 
four pillars of the 2004-2008 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Mexico and the GOM뭩 
National Development Plan (2007-2012). 
 
IV. POVERTY AND SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES AND ENVIRONMENT ASPECTS
 
ENVDPL III is designed to mainstream biodiversity and climate change considerations in key 
sectors of the Mexican economy and therefore should yield major positive environmental benefits, 
such as biodiversity and ecosystem services conservation, and significant reduction of perverse 
environmental impacts. 
 
By addressing the challenges of the forestry sector, the GOM will increase employment and 
income-generating options for forest dwellers, foster biodiversity conservation, and promote the 
sustainable use of forest resources, thus having direct significant positive poverty and social 
consequences. 
 
Page  3
3
V. TENTATIVE FINANCING
 
Source: 
          ($m.) 
BORROWER: 
         0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT: 
100 
 Total: 
         100 
 
CONTACT POINTS
 
Contact: Adriana Moreira 
Title: Senior Environment Specialist and Task Team Leader 
Tel.: (55-61) 3329-1062 
Email: 
amoreira@worldbank.org
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT:
 
The Infoshop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 4580-5454 
Fax: (202) 522-1500 
Web: 
http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
