                                                                                              94892
World Bank support Mexico's efforts on climate change                                   October 13, 2008
July 21, 2008— A new $501.2 million multi-sector development policy loan
to Mexico designed to integrate climate change concerns into public policy
is a bellwether for the Bank’s commitment to flexible lending and
heightened technical and “on demand” advisory services for middle-income
countries.

The DPL is the first loan of its kind for the Bank and the first loan under
Mexico’s new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), which emphasizes
climate change and has a streamlined structure.  Undertaken by several
ministries together, the project supports Mexico’s National Climate Change
Strategy which is central to the country’s development agenda. It builds on
a history of climate change cooperation with Mexico and will help
demonstrate Mexico’s leadership on this global issue.

“Mexico has emerged as a
global   leader     in   the
climate change arena and
this is the first operation
of its kind for the World
Bank”    said     Axel van
Trotsenburg,         country
director for Mexico and
Colombia.  “It is an
important first step for
the World Bank in finding
concrete ways to be a
long-term partner with
                             World Bank President Robert Zoellick and Mexican Finance
Mexico to support a low Minister Agustin Carstens sign a $501 million loan to aid in
carbon development path Mexico's efforts to fight climate change. Photo by: Adam
in the country.”             Wiseman


Mexico’s own national strategy, supported by this loan, was first unveiled
by President Felipe Calderon in May, 2007. It lays out long-term mitigation
and adaptation plans in all sectors at the federal and sub-national levels. It
includes, amongst other things, innovative strategies for energy efficiency
and power generation, transportation, and forestry and land use.  The loan
will be managed by the Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources
(SEMARNAT).

According to senior natural resources management
specialist Benoit Bosquet, the Bank will work with the          Axel van Trotsenburg,
government toward a countrywide voluntary reduction              Country Director for
in greenhouse gas emissions. “What the Bank can bring           Mexico and Colombia
to this partnership is significant know-how in the
climate change area,” he said.

Carbon generation in the Mexican economy has been
cut by 5 percent since 1993, and more than 100
projects to cut greenhouse gas emissions, including
wind energy, urban transport and waste management,
have been launched.  In addition, nearly 80 private
companies regularly report their greenhouse gas inventories, and
chlorofluorocarbon (present in refrigeration systems) consumption, an
ozone depleting substance which was cut by 98.6 percent between 1998
and 2007.

At the state level, climate change strategies already have been developed
for Mexico City, Veracruz and Nuevo Leon.  Localized vulnerability
assessments also have been completed for agriculture, water and forest
sectors in the state of Tlaxcala, for tourism in Quintana Roo, for agriculture
in Morelos, for Gulf Coast wetland ecosystems on the Gulf Coast, and water
supply for Hermosillo.

Mexico’s emission rate has grown steadily over the past 25 years, but it is
still very low (643 million tons of carbon dioxide equivalent in 2002,
according to its Third National Communication to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change, UNFCCC) compared with
developed countries.

Mexico ranks twelfth in the world for greenhouse gas emissions and second
in Latin America after Brazil.  Climate models developed by various
researchers   using    global   circulation  models     and   assuming UN
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) emissions scenarios
predict that Mexico will suffer disproportionate effects from climate change
including more frequent floods and drought.  The Gulf Coast and Yucatan
Peninsula are especially vulnerable to hurricanes and tropical storms, and
the cost of storm damage has risen dramatically—up 1000 percent since
the 1950s, and higher sea levels will only exacerbate this trend.

                         Climate change is also expected to reduce rainfall levels
 Benoit Bosquet of the   in Mexico. The IPCC predicts rainfall decreasing 10 to 20
   LCR Environment       percent nationally in Mexico, and up to 40 percent along
  team is project TTL    the Gulf Coast, putting greater demands on limited
                         water resources and adversely affecting Gulf wetlands
                         and primary forests in the North.

                   Mexico is a model among developed and developing
                   countries on climate change.  The 2007 Climate
                   Performance Index, an independent assessment of
                   countries’ overall climate strategies conducted by the
                   Bonn-based Germanwatch, an independent, non-
governmental organization, ranked Mexico fourth in the world behind
Sweden, Germany and Iceland in terms of per capita greenhouse gas
emission trends in energy, transport, residential and industrial sectors,
overall greenhouse gas emissions and climate policy.

Mexico also is the only developing country to have submitted three national
communications under the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change, reporting its latest emission levels and trends and
describing mitigation strategies.

The World Bank has a strong partnership with Mexico on climate change.  It
approved funding for its first project there in 1994 with a $10 million grant
from the GEF for a local project in Guadalajara and Monterrey to replace
incandescent light bulbs with fluorescent bulbs.  Since then, it has funded
25 climate change initiatives in Mexico financed by IRBD loans, GEF grants,
carbon finance emission reduction purchase agreements, grants for capacity
building in the carbon finance area and grants for economic sector work
and knowledge products.
