Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-l888-CU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED LOANS
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR
AN EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
June 24, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
US$ 1.00     =    1.00 Quetzal (Q)
Q 1.00     =    US$ 1.00
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OUVUCLAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
AID          - Agency for International Development
BANVI        - National Housing Bank
BG           - Bank of Guatemala
CABEI        - Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CEEP         - Executing Agency for Construction and Equipment of the Project
for Expansion and Improvement of Primary Education
CEURI        - Integration Urban Center
EDOM         - Master Development Plan for Guatemala City
EMPAGUA      - Municipal Water Authority of the City of Guatemala
EECSA        - Power and Light Co. of Guatemala
FEGUA        - Guatemalan Railways
FHA          - National Mortgage Bank
FIDEICOMISO - Trust Fund
ICIV         - Inter-American Institute for Housing
INTECAP      - Technical Training and Productivity Institute
IRCA         - International Railways of Central America
INVI         - National Housing Institute -- BANVI's predecessor.
NRC          - National Reconstruction Committee
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
PROPOSEI) LOANS TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA FOR
AN EARTHQUAKE RECGNSTRICTION PROJECT
1.        I submit!the following Report and Recommendation on proposed loans
totalling the equivalent of US$26.5 million to the Republic of Guatemala
for an earthquake reconstruction project. The equivalent of US$20.0 million
would be lent for housing reconstruction on standard Third Window terms
with interest at 4.85 percent; and the equivalent of UA$6.5 million
would be lent for school and port reconstruction at a term of 22 years
including 4 years of grace at 8.85 percent interest. The Republic of Guatemala
would onlend the proceeds of the Third Window loan to the Banco Nacional de
la Vivienda, on the same terms and conditions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on Recent Economic Development and
Prospects of Guatemala" (Report No. 681-GU) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in March 1975, and a special report on the situation following the
earthquake of February 4 was distributed on March 16, 1976 (SecM86--71). The
main conclusions of these reports have been incorporated in this section.
An economic mission is scheduled for October 1976 and will focus on the recons-
truction of Guatemala following the earthquake. A country data sheet is attached
as Annex I.



- 2 -
3.        Guatemala has the largest population and the most diversified
physical environment of the five countries in Central America.   The rugged
central highland area is marked by continuing volcanic activity and occasional
seismic disturbances, the most recent of which was the devastating earth-
quake of February 4, 1976, which is discussed below. The varied climate
and rich soils allow the cultivation of almost any type of agricultural pro-
duct.   There are some mineral resources, of which one of the most important
is nickel; its commercial production will begin in 1977 under a project involv-
ing IFC participation.  There is also some oil, and at least four petrolewa
companies are involved in exploration both in the area north of the central
highlands and off the Caribbean coast. Testing is now underway to determine
if commercially exploitable reserves are present. Guatemala's natural beauty,
climate, archeological monuments, folklore and proximity to the United States
give it a high potential for tourism development. Most of the country's popu-
lation and economic activity is in the central highlands. Nearly all the
major urban centers and most of the country's industrial activities are located
there. The principal food crops -- corn and beans -- are also grown there,
and most of the coffee is grown on the southern slopes of this region.
h.        Guatemala's population now totals about 5.6 million and is growing
at 2 to 3 percent per year. The most significant characteristic of the popu-
lation is its sharp ethnic division. The pure Indians, who make up about
40 percent of the total population, are economically, culturally and linguis-
tically separated from the rest of the population, which consists mainly of
"ladinos" of mixed Spanish and Indian origin. A large part of the Indian
population does not participate in the money economy, but is engaged in subsis-
tence agriculture and has a standard of living well below the average for the
rest of the population.
5.        The economy grew at an average annual rate of 5 to 6 percent from
1970 to 1975. Both agriculture and industry, which account for 30 and 15
percent respectively of GDP, grew during this neriod at rates very close
to this average. However, both have experienced a very substantial slow-
down since 1973 and, in 1975, each grew by only one to two percent, while other
sectors such as mining, construction and public administration grew by 11 to
12 percent. The recession which has dampened world trade during the past two
to three years adversely affected the demand for Guatemala's agrioal-turAiLand
industrial exports. Although the worldwide recovery which now appears to be
underway should stimulate Guatemala's exports and thus its general economic
growth, the impact which the February 4 earthquake will have on the economy
is not yet completely clear. While the agricultural and industrial production
capacity was not damaged heavily, the need to divert resources from development
to reconstruction of houses and general infrastructure can only be estimated
very approximately.



- 3 -
6.        The earthquake, which measured 7.5 on the Richter scale (compared
to 6.3 for the 1972 earthquake in Managua, Nicaragua), spread ruin across
about 3,500 square miles of the most heavily populated part of Guatemala,
killing at least 22,000 people, injuring nearly 75,000 and leaving at least
one-fifth of the nation's population without shelter. Most of the damage
occurred in the highland area north and west of Guatemala City and in the
strip along the Montagua River Valley running eastwards from the highlands
to the Atlantic Coast (see attached map).   The Department of Chimaltenango
was hit the hardest -- nearly 100 percent of the homes were destroyed, and
in some towns more than one person in ten was killed. Thirteen towns in
Guatemala were 95-100 percent destroyed and less than 30 percent of the homes
remained standing in another seventeen. Although aftershocks continue and
occasionally cause minor additional damage -- about 1,500 aftershocks have
been recorded so far -- the country has already made significant progress
in the difficult task of reconstruction.
7.        Initial Government estimates put direct reconstruction costs during
the next four years at US$750.0 million, of which about US$210.0 million
is likely to be in foreign exchange.(See Table l.)In terms of immediate damage,this
amounts to over one quarter of this year's GDP. Since then the Government has
raised the estimate to about US$1.1 billion in current prices over the next
ten years, but the US$750.0 million figure is probably a more accurate reflec-
tion of actual losses, as the US$1.1 billion appears to include substantial
upgrading of housing and other facilities in addition to direct replacement.
However, inevitably a large degree of uncertainty continues to surround these
estimates.    Details of the damage suffered by various sectors in the economy
are given in the above-mentioned earthquake reconnaissance report, and details
of the damage to the housing, education and port sectors, which were among the
most seriously affected by the earthquake, are given in the following sections
of this report.   In general terms., the housing sector suffered the heaviest
losses - accounting for 65 percent of the total damages .     Social
infrastructure was the next most heavily affected sector as a result of extensive
losses of schools, hospitals, health posts, government buildings and other
such facilities. Damage to transport, power, telecommunications and other
physical infrastructure iacilities accounted for less than 10 percent of
the total, although the main highway from Guatemala City to Puerto Ba.ios
on the Caribbean coast did suffer serious damage as did the facilities at
Puerto Barrios. Damages to the productive sectors (agricilture and industry)
accounted for only 5 percent of the total.
8.        To meet the estimated US$750.0 million bill for the first four years
of reconstruction, the Government hopes to mobilize funds from public, private
and external sources as indicated in Table 2.    This estimate of the flow of
funds is still quite rough, but it gives an idea of the order of magnitude of
the resources which will have to be mobilized from various sources for the
reconstruction effort.



4
Table 1: GUATDEALA: INITIAL COST ESTIMATES OF
EAR THQUAK:E DAMAGE
(In millions cf US dollars)
Total    Estimated Foreign     Foreign    Domestic
I t c m                  Cost;    Exchange  Content    Exchange     Currency
(percent)           Cost        Cost
I.  H ousig                     491           22.0              109         382
Metropolitan Area         236           25.O               60         176
Larger Towns               74           15.0               11          63
Smaller Towns              10l4         10.0               10          94
Mtiscellaneous j            77          35.0               28          49
11. InfrastructuLre               72           62.0               45          27
_Idli~pot                  66           62 .               41
Powter &Telecomrnunications  4          78.0                3           1
Other                        2          32.0                1           1
III.  Social O(verhead             1148         32.0               47         103
Social Serv-ice Facilities  98          34.0               33          65
Uroan Services              14          41.0                6           8
Governnment Bui.ldings,etc.  36         22.0                8          28
IV. 1Product!' e Sector           39           30.0               12          27
Agriculture                  8          15.0                1           7
Indlulstry                 11           60.0                7           4
Colnmierce & Services      20           19.0                4          16
Total            750          28.0               213         537
/ flouuehl .J(ig;oodu replacerrl?nt , rutbble removdl , otc.
Sc-"u7'C('  Go.vui riljijent est.iina ter.



-5-
Table 2
GUATEMALA: SOURCES AND USES OF RECONSTRUCION FUNDS
User of Funds
Source of Funds                 Total      Private              Public
Sector              Sector
Private Sector                    329       329
Public Sector                     148        19                 129
External                          273       198                  75
Total                     750       546                 204
Source: Government estimates.
Despite the high cost of the reconstruction program, the Government has
announced its intention to continue the investment program established
before the quake for 1975-79.   This program places considerable emphasis
on two areas. First, it stresses the need to increase the productivity
of small- and medium-size farmers, and expects to meet the Government's
rural sector objectives through investment in infrastructure, marketing and
credit facilities and in technological improvements.   In addition, the
plan contemplates consolidation of small plots into larger family-size
units to help overcome the traditional problem of "minifundia" -- uneconomical-
ly small land holdings.   Second, the plan gives high priority to accelerating
investments in the electric energy sector, where rapid action is required
to prevent energy shortages from becoming a bottleneck in the country's deve-
lopment. This 1975-79 program implies more than a doubling of the prtsent
public investment level and substantial increases in current expenditures.
9.        Full achievement of the investment targets may be difficult because
their project content still appears inadequate. Also, the financing required
to support the increased Government investment, including both the reconstruction
effort and the regular 1975-79 investment plan. mav well prove difficult to
achieve. Public sector savings traditionally have been low. Although Central
Government savings increased significantly in 1973 and again in 197.4, they
remained below 2 percent of GDP and, in 1975, declined to less than 1.5 percent
of GDP. Current revenues and expenditures remain at a level considerably lower



- 6 -
than in neighboring countries. Public sector investment reached an all time
high for Guatemala of 3.4 percent of GDP in 1973 wit'h over half the increase
owing to a doubling of investment in social sectors in one year. However,
a sharp increase in the price of construction materials resuited in the decline
in 1974 in public investment, in real terms. While there was some recovery in
real public sector investment in 1975, this only brought it back to the 1972 level.
10.       Conscious of its inadequate revenue, the last Administration made,
in the first half of 1974, a proposal for tax changes to increase the elasticity
of the revenue system in an inflationary environment. Although the proposal
was substantially modified by Congress, the measure introduced new export taxes
for sugar, beef and shrimp and put those for coffee and cotton on a more pro-
gressive sliding scale tied to world price movements. The new tax measures
helped to increase Central Government tax revenues py over 30 percent in 1974.
When the present Government came into power in July 1974, it soughit and obtained
Congressional approval of an additional tax package. Although this package
improved the elasticity of the tax system, Central Government tax revenues in
1975 remained at the 1974 level of 8'.2 percent of GDP. Ev'en before the earth-
quake, it was obvious to the Government that additional revenues would have
to be generated to assure the successful implem'entation of the 1975-79 develop-
ment program mentioned above, and an increase in the Central Government tax
effort to 10 percent of GDP by the end of the decade was proposed.
11.       As a first step towards increasing its revenues, the Government
has instituted   a forced savings plan by whicl all businesses, and individual
earnings more than $200 per month, would be obligated to invest in Government recons-
truction. bonds. yielding 8 percent interest with I5 years maturity. This measure was
enacted on April 14, 1976, and is expected to generate gross revenues of
$122.0 million over the next 10-12 months.    This is equal to about 35 percent
of 1974 Central Government revenues and to over 80 percent of the additional
revenues needed specifically for projected Central'Government local currency
expenditures on earthquake reconstruction in t-he next four years. E'ven though
this measure represents unusual progress in resource mobilization, the Government
may still have to seek additional sources of revenue to meet the remaining
reconstruction requirements, especially those falling beyond the next four years,
and to finance the proposed 1975-79 development program.   The reasons for this
are twofold: first, the funds generated by the reconstruct'ion bond sale will have
to be repaid with interest, and second, this is-only a one-time measure. Given
the relatively low, present level of taxes as a percent of GDP, an inc'rease in
taxation for these purposes-appears feasible.
12.       The additional private sector investment'n'eeded;f6r reconstruction in
1976 would require that private investmen't'incr'ease by;as;much'as'on`e-thirac[
over the level projected before the earthquake, but lesser'proportional -nc'reases
would be required thereafter. It is unlikely, howev'er, that private sector



-7-
investment could be expanded in 1976 to the extent that it could undertake
all of the non-reconstruction investment projected before the earthquake
as well as all of the projected volume of reconstruction expenditure. Never-
'Jheless, the private sector can still achieve a very substantial increase
in its investment. A large portion of its total investment consists of
housing, and much of the investment would be in-kind contributions of labor
and materials supplied by homeowners.      However, because of the very low
incomes of the families most affected by the earthquake, the development of
adequate credit facilities to finance the materials which must be purchased
will be required before the full self-help type of investment-- consisting
of contributions - in-kind of labor and materials -- can be realized. Thus,
the housing credit assistance which the Govermment plans to offer may help
assure that the major initial increase in investment planned for 1976 is
attained, and private investment can then grow'at the required rate in the
following years to accomplish the required reconstruction effort as well as
the normal accretions to the country's capital stock.
13.       The balance of payments situation improved markedly between
1971, when there was a current account deficit of US$46.0 million, and 1973,
when there was an US$11.0 million surplus on current account despite a sub-
stantial net outflow of service payments. Since 1973, however, the balance
of payments has deteriorated sharply. Although the volume of merchandise
imports grew only slightly faster than that of exports, rapid import price
increases resulted in a 56 percent increase in import value compared to only
a 32 percent increase in the value of exports.   The increased cost of oil
imports alone accounted for about 20 percent of the increase in import bill
from 1973 to 1975. These trends led to a deteriotation in the balance of
trade from a surplus of US$51.0 million in 1973 to a deficit of US$49.0 million
in 1974.   The current account balance in the same period declined from the
US$11.0 million surplus mentioned above to a deficit of US$99.4 million.
14.       In 1975, the volume of exports grew by 5.3 percent, but imports
remained roughly at 1974 levels, constrained by several factors: a slowdown
in demand for manufactured goods and thus for inputs for their production,
the use of inventories accumulated during the preceding year, and steadily
rising prices for other imported goods.   This stagnation notwithstanoing,
the more rapid increase in import prices led to a 10.8 percent increase in
their value compared to a 10.4 percent increase in export value. The trade
deficit in 1975 increased from US$49.2 million to US$60.5 million, and the
current account deficit increased from US$99.4 million to US$105.9 million.
15.       Although there was a steady deteriowation   in the current account
balance fram 1973 through 1975, with the inflow of direct private investment
amounting to US$30.0 million annually, Guatemala was able to increase its net
foreign exchange reserves from US$196.1 million in 1973 to US$280.2 million
by the end of 1975. But despite the substantial increase in the absolute levels
of reserves over this period, their adequacy fell as the rapid increase in
import prices and growing import volumes meant that while reserves in 1973 had
been the equivalent of 5 months' of imports, they were only three and one-half
months' imports in 1975.



-8-
16.       While coffee continues to be the leading export of Guatemala,
accounting for US$158.0 million or about 20 percent of export value in
1975, it did not do particularly well dur-ng 1975; coffee prices increased
sharply after May of 1975, but much of the coffee had been sold on contracts
which reflected the steep decline in price from mid-1974 to mid-1975, and
the average realized price for 1975 declined by 17 percent, resulting in
more than an 8 percent drop in the value of coffee exports. Sugar exports
compensated for the decline in coffee earnings in 1975 -- average prices
were up 48 percent, which, combined with a 58 percent increase in export
volume, produced a 134 percent increase in export value. Because of this
rapid growth, sugar replaced cotton as the second most important commodity
export, a position which cotton held for many years. Tourism continues to
be another leading source of foreign exchange earnings and, after a 37 percent
increase in 1975, generated about the same value of foreign exchange earnings
as cotton (US$78.0 million versus US$77.0 million).
17.       The balance of payments estimates for 1976 made prior to the earth-
quake foresaw an increase in the current account deficit from US$105.9 million
in 1975 to about US$200.0 million in 1976; it was anticipated that, despite
sharply higher coffee prices, rapidly rising import volume would make the
deficit increase. Estimates made since the earthquake indicate that the deficit
may be about US$336.0 million in 1976, about triple the 1975 deficit. The
doubling of construction material imports to US$100.0 million to meet recons-
truction needs accounts for a large part of the estimated increase, but higher
import values are also anticipated for consumer goods (up 17 percent) and
fuels (up 9 percent) as compared with pre-earthquake estimates. At the same
time, earnings from tourism, originally expected to be some 10 to 15 percent
above the 1975 level, are presently projected to be 30 percent below the
1975 figure. The current account deficit now forecast will amount to over 8
percent of GDP compared with about 3 percent in 1974 and 1975 and with the
original projection for 1976 of about 5 percent. This deficit of US$336.0
million is expected to be financed as follows: private long-term capital trans-
actions, of which about 70 percent would be direct investment -- US$166.0 million;
medium-term private capital (mainly suppliers credits) -- US$67.0 million; and
public borrowing, of which over 90 percent would be from official sources --
US$103.0 million. The country's reserves at the end of 1976 would remain at about
US$280 million, equal to about 2.75 months of 1976 imports.
18.       Medium-term prospects for the balance of payments are unusually
difficult to assess with precision because of the special uncertainties
surrounding the immediate costs and longer-term effects of the earthquake.
Most tourist facilities are already back in operation, and it is hoped that
tourism will be fully recovered in 1977 and will continue to grow in future
years. However, whether or not tourists will be deterred by the earthquake
remains to be seen.        Nickel exports will begin in 1977, and



- 9 -
the rate of growth of export volumes of manufactured goods is forecast to
rise from 7 percent in 1977 to 10 percent per year in 1980. However, this
can only occur if, in fact, the reconstruction effort does not preempt public
funds that are needed for the power expansion program, without which the
manufacturing sector is more likely to stagnate.    The projection is further
based on expectations, the realization of which remains uncertain, of full
re-establishment of the Central American Common Market, and on trade agreements
signed recently with Mexico and Panama. Prices for coffee should remain
relatively high for the next two years, and the growth projected for beef
export prices is very favorable into the early 1980's.   If the damage estimates
cited above are approximately correct,iuport volumes in 1977 and 1978 should increase
only minimally over the high levels of 1976, the latter being induced by earth-
quake reconstruction needs. Consequently, after the projected deterioration
in the current account balance in 1976, the deficit may be reduced gradually
through the end of the decade. However, because the Government is likely to
encounter problems in preparing projects suitable for financing by official
lending agencies once the initial, most obvious reconstruction needs are met,
capital inflows from official sources may become more difficult to mobilize.
The problem of external resource mobilization will be heightened by the Govern-
ment's needs to rely on some external financing in excess of the foreign
exchange cost of its foreign financed projects until it is able to realize its
intention to increase public savings substantially.   Measures to achieve this
have to be prepared with care and will, in any event, take some time before they
are fully effective.
19.       Because Guatemala has borrowed little on commercial terms in the
past, there is some scope for increasing such borrowing during the next two
to three years without impairing the country's creditworthiness, but over the
longer-term, borrowing on hard terms will have to remain limited, in line
with the overall prospects for the balance of payments (see paragraph 20
below). The external public debt repayable in foreign currency amounted to
US$210.0 million (5.8 percent of GDP) at the end of 1974, of which US$123.0
million had been disbursed. Guatemala's debt service ratio has been
relatively low in the past, only 3 to 4 percent of exports in 1973 and 1974, and
was reduced to about 1.7 percent in 1975 due to an increase in export- and a
decline in amortization payments. Also, the structure of the externil public
debt has improved substantially over the last few years as a result of increased
borrowing from international financial institutions. However, as annual dis-
bursements on loans from governments and international organizations for recons-
truction and other investment projects are likely to average US$80 to US$85
million between 1976 and 1985 and'grants are expected to level off at about
US$15.0 to US$20.0 million annually after the earthquake-related assistance
flows have ended, the Government may have to increase significantly its borrowing
from commercial sources in the future.   It is expected that the commercial
borrowing required in addition to expected levels of official lending will
increase the debt service ratio from its present level of 4 percent to about
15 percent in the early 1980's. This projection assumes that exports will grow
at 6 to 7 percent per year over the next 8-10 years, and that the reconstruction
process will take place more slowly than the Government has projected, thereby
slowing the rate of increase in imports.



- 10 -
20.       The projected 15 percent debt service ratio would be high for
a country such as Guatemala which depends heavily on the export of a rela-
tively few primary products whose prices are subject to sharp fluctuations.
Under these circumstances, there is a risk that, if Guatemala is unable
to obtain a substantial part of its foreign financing on somewhat privileged
terms from official sources, it will have to carry out the reconstruction
process at the expense of incurring an excessive level of debt service obli-
gation. Facing such alternatives, the Government might have to slow the pace
of reconstruction and postpone the time when particularly those in the lowest
income classes who were most severely affected by the earthquake regain at
least the basic housing and social services which they lost. The earthquake
created a very exceptional situation in which in spite of substantial Government
efforts to implement a sound reconstruction program, it will require the maximum
feasible level of support from imternational lending agencies on favorable
terms to assure reconstruction within a reasonable time. Since the Government
has already sought out virtually all sources of official capital, obtaining
substantial commitments from most of them, and as it is projected that borrowing
from commercial sources will have to approach maximum prudent levels in terms
of debt service obligations, the Third Window funds from the Bank can play an
important role in helping assure the rapid redevelopment and continued credit-
worthiness of Guatemala.
External Assistance
21.       Apart from the Bank, official external financing has been provided
primarily by USAID, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and the Central
American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI). IDB funds have carried a
substantial concessional element and contain laige components repayable in
local currency. The IDB has made loans for agriculture (credit, irrigation
and fisheries), housing, transportation, water supply and health services.
USAID has financed mainly rural development and primary education, but has
also granted loans for industrial development, rural electrification, housing
and health facilities. CABEI has concentrated mainly on projects in highways,
telecommunications, agriculture, and industry with a regional impact. The
lending of these agencies from 1950 to the end of 1974 is summarized as
follows:



(In millions of US dollars)
IBRD        AID       IDB       CABEI
Total (1950-1974)             66.5        87.8     129.1       104.2
Cumulative Lending 1950-65                   18.2        16.0      23.3
Cumulative Lending 1966-74                               71.7     105.         1/
Transport                                   .8      33.1        38.0
Power & Telecommunications    38.0         7.0                  24.8
Education                      6.3         8.6      18.8
Health                                      5.9      34.8        o.6
Agriculture                    4.0        32.0       10.5       30.4
Industry                                  10.0
Other                                       7.5      8.6       10.4
1/ CABEI has been in operation since 1960. Information as to the distribu-
tion of CABEI's lending to Guatemala between the two periods shown is
not available.
22.       In the next few years, IDB is expected to consider financing of projects
in electric power, industry, tourism, agriculture and rural development, high-
ways, health and education. AID is expected to consider projects principally in
education, agriculture and rural development, and CABEI,projects with a regional
impact.   It is too early to say precisely how much reconstruction finance Guate-
mala can expect from official sources, but seems likely that the US$270.0 million
which the Government has requested will be difficult to raise. Basea on pre-
liminary plans of other multilateral and bilateral agencies (discevssed further
in Part III below), an amount of US$175.0 to US$200.0 million appears more rea-
listic.
Eligibility for Third Window Lending
23.       In summary, Guatemala is considered eligible for Third Window
financing on the basis of the following considerations:
(1)  Poverty:  W4hile Guatemala's 1972 GDP per capita was US$450
(1975 World Bank Atlas), most non-financial indicators ef welfare show that
Guatemala is on a level with a number of countries in Latin America with per
capita incomes in the range of US$320-360. For example, less than half the adult



- 12 -
population is literate; the average life expectancy is only 53 years;
and the child mortality rate is 25 per thousand, nearly three times that
of Honduras, which had a 1972 per capita income of only US$300. Moreover,
it is the large portion of the population whose incomes fall well below
the national average who suffered the most from the earthquake. The
already low standard of living of tens of thousands of these people has
been reduced still further by the loss of their homes.
(2) Performance: The Goveinment is making considerable efforts
to overcome the devastating effects of the earthquake. It developed within
a month of the quake a US$750.0 million reconstruction plan, established
the administrative machinery for its implementation, and announced the
intention to complete the plan without interrupting the 1975-79 development
program. As a first step towards assuring the success of this strategy,
the Government arranged for an obligatory bond sale of US$122 million
which should provide a major share of the resources required from domestic
sources for the reconstruction program.
(3)  Creditworthiness:   The external public debt service ratio
of Guatemala traditionally has been relatively low, about 7-8 percent on
average, and in 1973 and 1974 was below 4 percent. However, particularly
because of projected increases in foreign borrowing for earthquake reconstruc-
tion, the debt service is expected to rise steadily in the next few years,
peaking near 15 percent in the early 1980's.    At the same time the
country's export earnings are of a quite volatile nature, with coffee and
sugar still accounting for about 40 percent of merchandise exports. In
these circumstances, a softening of lending terms is desirable.
(4) Alternative Sources of Finance: The principal multilateral
and bilateral lending agencies either already have made, or are considering,
financial assistance in amounts which represent about the maximum they can
be expected to contribute to the reconstructior. program. Moreover, for the
reasons discussed in paragraph (3) above, Guatemala should be cautious about
the rate at which it expands its borrowing from commercial sources.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       Guatemala to date has received eight Bank loans, totalling US$107.0
million. The last operation, a loan for a second education project amounting
to US$14.5 million, was signed on March 5, 1976. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of April 30, 1976, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
25.       In addition to two loans for education, the Bank has provided assis-
tance through two loans for power, two loans for telecommunications and one
loan each for highways and livestock development. After an initial loan for
highways, made in 1955, the Bank suspended operations in Guatemala because
of the failure of successive Guatemalan Governments to settle a dispute regarding
three outstanding sterling bond issues Following settlement of the sterling
debt, the Bank resumed lending to Gua.temala in 1967.



- 13 -
26.       Beyond the proposed assistance in earthquake reconstruction, Bank
lending to Guatemala in the next few years will be designed to (1) assist
Government programs in education and training, (2) support developmental
initiatives in the more traditional sectors where we expect to be able to make
a meaningful contribution to sectoral objectives, and to strengthening and
diversifying the productive base of the economy, and (3) give increased
emphasis to the rural sector. In education, future lending is likely to give
priority to expanding lower secondary education, with pre-vocational orientation,
to small towns and rural areas throughout the country. In power and telecommu-
nications, the Bank would help to meet the growing resource requirements, and
to strengthen major institutions operating in these sectors. In power, the
Bank has been reviewing with the Government and the power generating comnpany
Guatemala's future energy requirements and the possibility of the Bank's pro-
viding financing for two major hydro-electric projects. Given the size of the
envisaged power investment program, the Bank would also help to mobilize the
external financing required beyond what the Bank might be in a position to
consider. In the rural sector, the Bank is participating in an analysis of
Guatemala's agricultural plans and programs, which is being conducted as
part of a joint IBRD, IDB and AID agricultural and rural survey of the five
Central American countries. It is hoped, through this process, to identify
specific rural development projects and, more broadly, to help the Government
to carry out its expressed intention to give high priority to rural sector
development. In addition to lending directly for agriculture, our intention
is to direct the major part of planned support for transport development
to roads directly benefiting the rural sector.
27.       It is expectecd that the Bank's share of total external public debt
disbursed and outstanding will be 10-15 percent on average through 1980. The
Bank's share of debt service in 1974 was 10 percent; it is projected to drop
slightly in the future with increased borrowing from commercial sources for
reconstruction.
28.       IFC has made two investments in Guatemala. The first, a US$200,000
loan in 1958 for a flour mill, has been fully repaid. The second, a loan of
US$15.0 million to Exploraciones y Explotaciones Mineras Izabal, S.A. (EXMIBAL),
a Guatemalan company established to exploit a nickel ore deposit at Lake Izabal
in eastern Guatemala, was approved in July 1973.  After some initial delays
in finalizing the project design and in arranging additional financing made
necessary by substantial cost overruns, construction is progressing satis-
factorily and plant operation is expected to begin in mid-1977.



- A -
PART III - RECONSTRUCTION: ORGANIZATION AND FINANCING
29.       The Government has announced the intention of carrying out the
bulk of the reconstruction program over a four-year period. It has esta-
blished a three-man National Reconstruction Committee to coordinate all
activities under the program. The Committee consists of the Commander of
the Guatemalan Navy (Chairman), the Minister of Finance and a representative
of the federations of rural cooperatives.
30.       To get the reconstruction program undei-:ray, the Government obtained
Congressional approval for a greatly increased 1976 budget and for the bond
issue mentioned in paragraph 11 above. Responsibility for the development
and implemetation of reconstruction activities in the different sectors was
generally assigned to the Ministry or agency principally concerned, although
in the case of ports, where administrative authority is diffused, implementa-
tion authority was assigned to the Ministry of Public Works and Communications.
In housing, where the need is greatest and administrative capacity of public
sector agencies weak, it was decided to divide responsibility between the
National Housing Bank (BANVI) for Guatemala City and major urban centers, and
the Agricultural Development Bank (BANDESA) for the mostly rural areas consti-
tuting the balance of the zone affected by the earthquake. All resources, both
internal and external, obtained for reconstruction are to be channeled through
a trust fund established for this purpose in the Bank of Guatemala.
31.       In order to mobilize the external resources required for the pro-
gram, the Government has been conducting extensive discussions with repre-
sentatives of the major external multilater'al and bilateral agencies, and
these discussions have been supplemented by coordinatirg sessions among the
agencies themselves. Based on the latest available information, the likely
assistance of the other major agencies is as follows:
(a) Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has agreed to reallocate
the balance of several loans already approved before the earthquake, for a
total sum of US$3h.2 million. These funds will be used for the reconstruction
of the heavily damaged highway from Guatemala City to Puerto Barrios on the
Atlantic Coast; for the rehabilitation of the water supply and sewerage systems
in the capital and other cities; for the rehabilitation of small industrial
and tourist enterprises; for repairs or reconstruction of houses and office
buildings of rural cooperatives; and for repairs to damaged university buildings.
In addition a new loan in the amount of US$20.0 million has been approved for
the reconstruction of houses in the rural sector. IDB is also conaidering a
possible additional loan for the reconstruction of the hospitals destroyed in
Guatemala City and Antigua.



(b) The Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI)
is planning to finance the reconstruction of housing, roads and Guatemala
City municipal services. The amount of these loans will total about
US$16.0 million, which includes some reallocation from loans previously
granted to the Municipality of Guatemala City.
(c) AID has made available to Guatemala a grant of US$25.0 million
for the relief phase which has been used inter alia for the emergency reha-
bilitation of roads, provision of temporary shelter, rubble removal and
emergency rehabilitation of community services. AID is also considering a
loan of about US$15.0 million to finance .the reconstruction of primary schools
outside Guatemala City, a loan of US$8.0 rnillion to finance the reconstruction
of municipal services outside the Capital, and a US$15.0 million loan to finance
the reconstruction of houses in rural areas.
(d) The Venezuelan Government has made a grant of US$5.8 million
(channeled through the OAS and IDB), which is expected to be increased to a
total of US$15.0 million through a program of contributions established in
Venezuela. The funds will be used for housing reconstruction.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank reconnaissance mission
in late February 1976; it was prepared and appraised by three Bank missions
during April and May. The main features of the loans and project are outlined
in Annex III. A detailed description and analysis of the project components is
contained in a Technical Annex which is available on request.  (Report
No. 1220-GU, dated June 24 , 1976).     Negotiations were held in Washington
from June 16 - 22,.1976.    The principal representative   for the Government
was Mr. Hector Menendes de la Riva, Advisor to the Minister of Finance and
National Reconstruction Committee.
Summary Description, Costs and Financing Plan
33.       The project was developed in the light of reconstruction needs and
the preliminary plans of the Government and the major external lending agencies.
It consists of three sub-projects, for housing, education and ports, which are
of high priority in the Government's earthquake reconstruction program. The
housing component which would be carried out by the National Housing Bank (BANVI),is
designed to achieve two major objectives: (a) creation of housing quickly,
through new construction or reconstruction and rehabilitation of dwellings for
those rendered homeless by the disaster who cannot afford to build or buy new
homes without Government assistance; and (b) the establishment of an institutional



- 16 -
framework for rational urban development in the future, with the needs
of the growing numbers of urban poor in Guatemala as a prime consideration.
To achieve these purposes as quickly and economically as possible, the
housing component includes: (i) sites and services to accommodate 10,000
low-income families in the metropolitan area of Guatemala City; (ii) a
program of materials credits for 8,000 families in 10 towns severely
affected by the earthquake; (iii) a program of credits for the construction
materials industry; and (iv) technical assistance for the National Housing
Bank.
34.       The education component is designed to assist the Government to
replace primary and secondary schools serving mostly low-income population
which were badly damaged or destroyed by the earthquake, and to introduce
in the secondary schools quality improvements in line with those being
implemented uhder the recently approved Second Education Loan (No. 1212-GU).
This component would be implemented by the Ministry of Public Works and
Communications (MCPW), through the project unit established for secondary
school construction under the first Bank loan and the project unit established
for primary school construction under loans made by AID.   This component would
include principally the construction of 27 primary schools and 5 secondary
schools to serve approximately 20,000 students in Guatemala City and three
34a.      The port component, which also would be implemented by MCWO,
consists of a limited rehabilitation of Puerto Barrios to provide
sufficient port capacity on the Atlantic coast for the next three to
four years and a technical assistance program designed to help Guatemala
to prepare its port expansion plans on a sound basis and to set up
appropriate port institutions.
35.       The total cost of the three sub-projects is estimated to be
Us$52.0 million, including a foreign exchange component of US$17.5 million.
The cost and proposed fihancing of the three main components would be as
followst
($ Millions)
Cost                      Financing
Total     Local     Foreign      Bank      Government
Housing           42.3      29.4       12.9        20.0         22.3
Education          6.7       4.4        2.3        4.2           2.5
Ports              3.0       0.7        2.3         2.3         0.7
52.0      34.5       17.5       26.5         25.5
36.       The proposed US$20.0 million Third Window loan would be allocated
entirely to the housing component. The two Bank loans together would
finance 51 percent of total project costs, including US$9.0 m'Ilion of
local costs. Local cost financing is justified for the



- 17 -
reasons discussed in paragraph 18 above. Retroactive financing of up
to US$150,000 is included to cover costs of professional services and
project administration subsequent to May 1, 1976 for the housing and
education components. Each of the three project components is discussed
separately below.
A.   Housing
37.       The total damage in the housing sector has been estimated by the
Government at 258,000 dwelling units of which 58,000 were destroyed in
Guatemala City alone, 12,000 in provincial capitals, and the rest in small
towns and villages. The Government is planning to put approximately US$60.0
million equivalent of its own resources into housing reconstruction in the
small urban centers and rural areas and is counting on US$35.0 - US$50.0
million in exiternal assistance from IDB, AID, and Venezuela to complement
its own effor-6s in these areas. It has requested the Bank to participate,
on an approximately 50-50 cost sharing basis,in housing reconstruction in
Guatemala City and ten departmental capitals. The housing component of the
proposed Bank reconstruction loan, therefore, would assist the Guatemalan
authorities ins (i) providing housing facilities in Guatemala City for low
income families through sites and services projects and credits for materials
purchases; (ii) reconstruction of houses in ten provincial capitals through
credits to low income families for materials purchases and possibly also
through sites and services projects; and (iii) promoting the production of
construction materials through credits for small industries. This project
component supports as well the Government's efforts to strengthen the
capability of the National Housing Bank (BANVI) to serve as an effective
intermediary in urban development.
(i) Sites and Services
38.       The sites and services approach appears particularly suitable for
Guatemala City. The metropolitan area had a serious and growing deficit in
housing for the poor before the earthquake and these were the people hardest
hit by the earthquake. A substantial percentage of the low income families
are renters who have no place to rebuiJd.The tremendous pressure for buildable
space since the earthquake has resulted in large-scale occupations of publicly-
owned lands by homeless families. One particularly well situated areas has
already been occupied by 2,000-3,000 families, with more continuing to arrive,
who are marking out their plots with stakes and building temporary shelters.
This is a new phenomenon in Guatemala; squatter settlements have previously
been almost entirely confined to the sides of ravines where no one else
would build. Sites and services projects have already been carried out quite
successfully, although on a limited scale, in the metropolitan area of
Guatemala City by BANVI. Designs are of somewhat higher standards than most
Bank-assisted projects, but these would be reduced under the project through
various modifications and incorporations of mutual help concepts.



- 18 -
39.       The proposed sites and services component consists of a phased
three and one-half year program producing between 2,500 to 4,000 units
annually for a total of about 10,000 housing units. It is expected that
all of these units would be located in Guatemala City, although the possibility
of developing sites and services projects outside of Guatemala City has not
been excluded. It has been agreed that, subject to the prior approval of the
Bank, the sites and services component may include units to be developed in
one or more of the departmental capitals referred to in Paragraph 43 below.
Assuming that the 10,000 units wfould be developed entirely in Guatemala City,
the program would replace or restore about 17 percent of the damaged housing
units in Guatemala City. The individual project sites would be in three
areas which are located within a 9 km. radius of the city center, would not
require major off-site infrastructure investment, and would be accessible
to industrial and commercial employment areas and served adequately by bus
transport.   The-sites will be provided with basic infrastructure - water,
sanitary sewerage, paved footpaths, streets, storm drainage, public lighting,
open space, community centers, schools, and markets, as well as special plots
with structures to house small scale commercial and manufacturing industries.
The first phase of 1,000 units is expected to be completed by mid-April 1977.
An additional 1,400 units would be completed by August 1977 and another 1,400
by October 1977. The remaining units would be completed in 1978-79. Negotia-
tions for the acquisition of land required for the first 2,400 units are
well advanced and should be completed in time to permit construction of the
above timetable. The Government has already acquired the 50 has. required for
the first phases of the program and has agreed to developa satisfact6iorfime-
table for the acquisition of the additional sites. (Section 2.12 of the Project
Agreement.)
40.       Three service levels and four lot size options would be provided-
(1) service level I -- plots between 75 and 130 M2 with individual water,
sewerage and surface drainage connections to the main network at a cost
of about US$765, not of land; (2) service level II - plots between 81 and
94 M2 with a 5.6 M1' sanitary core consisting of a water toilet, shower,
laundry sink, electrical fixtures, enclosing walls and roof, at a cost of
about US$1,244, net of land; and (3) service level III - plots of 81 M2
with a basic one-room core dwelling including a sanitary core as in Level II,
at a cost of about US$1,898, net of land. The progressive stages of self-
help construction would be aided by a construction materials credit program
and technical assistance available to the owner-builder.
41.       A Project Unit, which will be created within BANVI to carry out
the housing component of the project (and is described in paragraphs 54-55 below)
will screen and evaluate applicants for serviced sites. Selection criteria
include: (a) displacement of household due to loss of dwelling/shelter   n
the earthquake, or residency in squatter settlement or inadequate housing
conditions for at least two years prior to the earthquake; (b) maximum household
aggregate income of US$150 per month; (c) capacity of the household to pay
US$9 to US$25 per month for shelter and other utilities; (d) intention to live
on assigned lots with the understanding that the housing unit orovided will not
be a completed dwelling; and (e) willingness and ability to unaertake completion



- 19 -
of the housing unit. (It should be noted that these criteria would permit
occupancy by low-income persons who did not lose their houses during the earth-
quake, as long as they can establish that they have lived for an extended
period in inadequate housing.) The final selection of applicants from among
those who meet the above criteria would be made by lottery.
42.       The project beneficiaries would be charged for the costs of land,
site development, on-site infrastructure, community facilities, core housing
(where applicable) and a proportionate share of off-site infrastructure and
administrative expenses plus a surcharge for utility connections. BANVI will set
the selling price of lots and housing units to assure the recovery of these
costs. The average monthly cost to households for the three ser*ice level
options would be about US$12, US$15 and US$19 respectively, net of building
materials loans. Assuming a materials loan of US$hoo, the average monthly
costs would be about US$14, US$17 and US$22 per:service level. Assuming that
20 percent of household income could be allotted to shelter, this means that
service level one plus a US$400 materials credit would be affordable by persons
in the lowest 10 percent of income earners in Guatemala City, while service
level III plus a similar materials loan would be affordable by persons in the
lowest 20 percent.
(ii) Credit Program for Departmental Capitals
43.       Outside of the Guatemala City area, the main task is not to find
and develop new sites, but to aid the rebuilding efforts of persons whose
homes, however modest, stood on a family-owned plot. As it has been given
responsibility for housing reconstruction in the departmental capitals,
BANVI has analyzed and recommended assistance for 10 of them that suffered
significant damage in the earthquake. These towns, whose populations range
from 4,000 to 28,000 inhabitants, are: Chimaltenango, El Progreso, Salama,
Solola, Quiche, Totonicapan, Jalapa, Zacapa, Puerto Barrios and Antigua. The
destruction of houses ranges from 15 percent in Puerto Barrios to 100 percent
in Chimaltenango and El Progreso, with an overall average of 75 percent. The
number of housing units severely damaged or destroyed is estimated at aout
11,000, most of them belonging to poor families and made of massive adobe
brick walls topped by heavy tile roofs which simply collapsed under the impact
of the earthquake.
44.       Under this sub-component it is proposed to extend supervised credit
to about 8,000 households (or 42,000 people); as such, it would meet the
needs of about 70 percent of the households seriously affected by the earth-
quake in the ten towns. Bach credit will range in size from US$500 to US$1,000.
Based on preliminary surveys conducted by BANVI, utilization of the loan would
be primarily for building materials and skilled labor for reconstruction or
rehabilitation of houses; in some instances, the credit would be used for
rehabilitation of workshops or stores.
45.       In urban centers where BANVI does not presently have a branch office,
credit extension to individual families would be carried out through commercial
banks and other suitable credit institutions. The agreements between BANVI
and the credit institutions specifying responsibilities with respect to the
provision of credit inspectors, percentage commission, reporting system and



- 20 -
loan supervision will be furnished to the Bank for approval prior to their
signature. BANVI's Project Unit would monitor this program and provide the
inspectors necessary to ensure efficient utilization of the credit program.
(iii)   Small Business Development Program
46.       This sub-component aims principally at increasing the productive
capacity of medium and small-scale building materials manufacturers to meet
the requirements of the housing sector and to generate employment opportunities
for semi-skilled workers. In addition, it includes the development, for lease
to entrepreneurs, of a total of about 6 ha. of commercial sites within the
sites and services projects to be financed under the proposed loan.
47.       BANVI has an on-going program of loans to small and medium manu-
facturers of building materials. It has streamlined its procedures to cope
with the post-earthquake demand for funds from this industry. About 60
prospective borrowers have expressed firm interest, and it is estimated that
there is a potential demand for funds from about 150 small entrepreneurs. Loans
would vary from US$5,000 to US$15,000 and would be primarily for the expansion
of fixed assets, including buildings and workshops. BANVI will use its Credit
Section to promote this program; and the Project Unit would work closely
with the Credit Section in the economic evaluation of proposed sub-loans.
Priority would be given to proposals that would involve the es-tablishment of
facilities on sites included in the sites and services component.
(iv) Technical Assistance
48.       Consulting services will be required to assist BANVI in the imple-
mentation of the housing component of the project. Consultants would be
contracted in the fields of engineering, architecture, urban planning,
business development, and community organization and training, for a total
of about 108 man-months. BANVI will employ consultants, by December 31, 1976,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Ban.,.  (Section 2.06 of the Project
Agreement.) In order to assist the Projec-t Unit in its operations, vehicles
and equipment (e.g. audio-visual, communications, machinery for construction
purposes, etc.) would be provided.
Cost Estimates and Financing
49.       The cost of the sites and'services portion of the housing component
is estimated at US$31.1 million, including land. The cost of the credit programs
for the departmental capitals-and for small business development a-re estimated
at US$5.0 million and US$5.1 million respectively, while technica-l assistance
and equipment are estimated at US$1.1 million. The total cost of the housing
component, therefore, is estimated at about US$42.3 million, of which '73$12.9
millicn or 30 percent, represents the foreign exchange-cost. Base-cost estimates
are computed in prices of May 1976. To these are added physical contingencies equal
to 15 percent of base costs of civil works -and price escalation equal to 15 percent



- 21 -
per annum for 1976 and 1977 and 12 percent per annum for 1978-79. Total
physical and price contingency allowances amount to US$10.7 million, or about
25 percent of total project costs. The Bank would finance US$20.0 million,
or 47 percent of the cost of this component (US$12.9 million of foreign
exchange and US$7.1 million equivalent of local costs).    The balance of the
required funds would be provided by the Government.
50.       The estimated cost of consulting services for the housing component,
excluding contingencies, is US$0.6 million, or an average cost per man-month of
US$5,500 (excluding foreign travel).
On-Lending Arrangements
51.       The Government would on-lend the proceeds of the Third Window loan
to BANVI on the same terms except for the payment of interest during construction
and commitment charges, which will be borne by the Government.   The Government
will provide its share of costs, amounting to US$22.6 million, plus additional
amounts that may be required to cover project-related administrative costs to
BANVI as a grant. On this basis, the average cost of loanable funds to BANVI
would be about 2.35 percent. BANVI's loans to individuals for sites and services
and materials credits would be for 20 years, including up to 2 years-' grace,
at 4 percent interest. The credits for manufacturers of building materials would
be for 5 years at 9.75 percent interest. The 4 percent rate of interest for
the sites and services sub-component is low but part of overall Government policy
adopted for the reconstruction emergency and has been accepted on the grounds that
the beneficiaries would be low income families most of whom have suffered a serious
worsening of their condition through the loss of their homes.
Executing Agency
52.       The executing agency will be the National Housing Bank (BANVI)
which is a state-owned semi-autonomous agency created in July 1973. Its
main objective is to promote and carry out housing and urban renewal
projects for the lower income population. BANVI absorbed the assets, lia-
bilities and staff of the National Housing Institute (INVI), another Go-rn-
ment controlled agency created in 1956. INVI had been limited in its
activities by the lack of financial resources, and BANVI was given both
broader authority to raise resources and a wider range of responsibilities
in the urban field. BANVI can, inter alia,.accept deposits and provide other
banking services, carry out projects for housing and related infrastructure
directly or through private contractors; provide loans to individuals for
houses built privately or by BANVI; promote and participate in the organi-
zation and expansion of housing construction companies; raise funds with
Government approval from external sources and from other Guatemalan banks



- 22 -
and financial institutions. BANVI has a five member Board of Directors,
including the Minister of Economy (Chairman) and the Minister of Finance.
BANVI's President, who is also a member of the Board, is assisted by
three Vice Presidents who are in charge of the Banking, Administration
and Production departments, respectively. In addition, BANVI has an
Internal Auditing Department that reports directly to the President.
53.       The Government has designated BANVI as the agency in charge
of housing reconstruction in Guatemala City and Departmental capitals.
Although an institution of recent creation, still in a relatively early
stage of development of the administrative and financial capacity to
serve the urban housing sector, it is nevertheless the only housing and
urban development institution in Guatemala with experience in sizeable
housing projects. (It has so far financed the construction of about
15,000 housing units and has an additional 6,000 units currently in
various stages of construction.)
54.        In order to assure sufficient expansion of BANVI's institutional
capacity to enable it adequately to handle the proposed reconstruction
project, as well as to strengthen BANVI's overall institutional capacity,
a number of measures would be undertaken in connection with the project.
BANVI would establish the position of Vice President for Reconstruction
who would coordinate with other Government agencies involved in reconstruc-
tion. At the same time BANVI would create a Project Unit which would
report directly to the new Vice President and would collaborate with the
other Departments of BANVI in carrying out the project.
55.       The functions of the Project Unit were agreed during negotiations.
Its duties are expected to include the implementation of the project from
the preliminary engineering stage through construction and supervision. Among
the functions of the Unit would be to develop procedures for selection of
settlers and to organize and train groups for self-help and mutual help efforts.
The Project Unit would consist of a project administrator, a senior engineer,
an architect/planner, an accountant/financial analyst, a construction industry
specialist, a senior social worker, a community development worker, a field
engineer, a business promotion specialist, and an architect/contractor. Con-
ditions of disbursement for the housing component would be the appointment of
a suitably qualified Vice President for Reconstruction (any appointment to
such position will be made after consultation with the Bank) and the establish-
ment, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, of a Project Unit with qualified
and experienced personnel.   (Part 4, paragraph (b)(ii) of Schedule 2 to the
Sites and Services Loan Agreement.) At the same time that BANVI takes steps
to set up the Project Unit, it would carry out a management study to determine
the types of adjustments in the scope and nature of its overall staffing
requirements that should be made in light of the reconstruction tasks which
have been assigned to it.  The terms of reference of the study have be n reviewed
and agreed with the Bank; substantial completion of the study would be a
condition of disbursement for the housing component. (Part 4, paragraph (b)(iii),
of Schedule 1 to the Sites and Services Loan Agreement.)



- 23 -
56.       A weak area in BANVI's operations, that it partly inherited
from INVI, is loan collections. Reports on loans in arrears are not kept
on a timely basis. Moreover, the most recent information available shows
that about one-third of all loans had some amount in arrears for more than
three months.   While the total amount in arrears was only 4 percent of the
amount of loans outstanding, improvement in loan collection is necessary.
BANVI has agreed to strengthen its collection procedures so that the number
of accounts more than three months in arrears would not exceed 25 percent
of all accounts by December 31, 1977. (Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement.)
An important sources of funds for BANVI's operations have been the US$1.0
million equivalent annual Government contribution to BANVI's capital. The
contribution was established in the law creating BANVI and is to continue
until 1979.   The Government has agreed to continue to provide the contri-
butions required by this law on a timely basis. (Section 3.03 of the Sites
and Services Loan Agreement.) BANVI utilizes external auditors who report
on the financial statements and other information required under a previous
IDB loan to INVI. A separate account for the Bank-financed project will be
maintained by BANVI and quaterly statements of project costs will be submitted
to the Bank. Annual audited financial statements for BANVI, plus an audited
project cost statement and such other information as the Bank may reasonably
require, will be provided to the Bank not later than six months after the
end of BANVI's fiscal year. (Sections 4.01(b), 2.09(b) and 4.02 of the
Project Agreement.)
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Contracts for civil works would be awarded to prequalified bidders
on the basis of international competitive bidding carried out in accordance
with Bank guidelines. While works would be grouped to the extent possible
to encourage competitive bidding, contracts are expected to average about
US$1.5 million in value and therefore are not expected to be large enough-
to attract interest from foreign firms.  Procurement of vehilles for the Project
Unit would also be in accordance with international competitive bidding. For
this component (as well as the education and port components), and in accor-
dance with the Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives, manufacturers
from Guatemala and other Central American Common Market (CACM) nxember countries
would receive a preferential margin of 15 percent of the c.i.f. base price or
50 percent of the import taxes applicable to non-CACM manufacturers, whichever
is lower.
58.       The Third Window loan would be disbursed over a period of four years
to meet: (a) 50 percent of the total cost of civil works; (b) 50 percent of
BANVI disbursements for materials credits to individual households; (c) 50
percent of BANVI disbursements for loans to building materials manufacturers;
(d) 100 percent of expenditures for technical assistance specialists; and
(e) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for vehicles and equipment for SYhe
Project Unit, or 85 percent of total expenditures (i.e., deducting local
taxes) for such vehicles and equipment when procured locally.



- 23a -
Project Risks
58a.      The frequency and magnitude of earthquakes are unpredictable
and their probable effects on the project are not measurable. To
reduce project risks, BANVI has incorporated in project designs more
stringent standards of construction and technical supervision.
58b.      Another type of risk inherent in the project is the extent
to which BANVI would be able to execute the project expeditiously and
efficiently. Delays in implementation caused by delays in land
acquisition, constraints in the construction industry or constraints
in the administrative and technical capacity of BANVI, could materially
affect project costs. Costs overruns could, in turn, affect the number
in the lowest decile of the population which can effectively participate
in the program.  With respect to land acquisition, the G6o-ernment has al-
ready acquired the 50 has. necessary for the first 2,400 units in the
project and has agreed to provide, within six months after loan signing,
a schedule satisfactory to the Bank for the acquisition of the land required
for the remaining 7,600 units. (Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement.)
As discussed in paragraph 55 above, in order to strengthen its administra-
tive and technical capacity, BANVI has agreed to appoint a Vice President
for Reconstruction, to establish a Project Unit and to carry out a manage-
ment study. Also the project includes 108 man-months of consulting services
for the implementation of the housing component. (See paragraph 48 above.)



- 24 -
B. EDUCATION
59.       In Guatemala City, about 13 public primary schools (grades 1 to
6) serving almost 8,000 students were destroyed or so severely damaged
by the earthquake that they cannot be repaired. Eight of these schools were in
rented buildings which the Government intends to replace by new buildings
on publicly-owned land. An additional 22 schools serving about 14,000 students
were damaged but can be repaired. Schools serving about 82,000 students were
not damaged. The Government has been able to provide schooling to children
from damaged or destroyed facilities through triple and quadruple sessions
in undamaged schools. Repair of schools, already being undertaken by private
owners of rented schools facilities, should reduce significantly the number
of students on multiple sessions and provide a tolerable educational environ-
ment while replacement schools are constructed.
60.       Outside Guatemala City, primary schools in urban areas serving 9,000
students have been reported as destroyed. Data on rural schools are not
yet available but estimates of their destruction run very high, since most
were of adobe construction. AID is assisting in reconstruction of primary
schools outside Guatemala City, through a grant of US$1.0 million for pre-
fabricated buildings which will be adapted for use as primary schools, and
is considering further loan assistance for rural primary schools.
61.       In Guatemala City, three public secondary schools (grades 7 to 12)
serving 4,400 students (out of a total of 25,000 public secondary students in
Guatemala City) were destroyed or damaged so severely that they cannot be
repaired. About 14 other public secondary schools were damaged but can be
repaired. All students are in school at this time, but many are on triple
or quadruple shifts. This situation is being alleviated as repairs are made
to existing schools and as the destroyed schools, with assistance from the
Government, are being provided with temporary teaching sheds. Outside Guate-
mala City, eight secondary schools with a total enrollment of 2,500 were
destroyed or severely damaged.   Classes have resumed in all these institu-
tions through the utilization of primary school buildings and construction of
temporary wooden sheds.
62.        The education component oftht project consists of construct.Lon
of (i) about 13 primary schools in Guatemala City to replace thos'
destroyed by the earthquake; (ii) 14 primary schools in Guatemala City
to be part of the sites and services component of the project; and (iii)
five lower secondary schools in Guatemala City and provincial cities to
replace schools destroyed by the earthquake.
Primary Schools
63.       About thirteen primary schools (4,320 places) serving 8,640
students on a double shift basis would replace schools destroyed by the
earthquake. Detailed studies of the catchment areas of the destroyed
schools and of potential new sites would determine the size of these
schools. It is estimated that nine would provide 240 places; three would
provide 480 places; and one replacement of a large school would provide
720 places in a multi-story building. Each primary school would consist
of a basic classroom block or blocks, administrative spaces, a storeroom,
and a library.  Equipment provided would be modest -- about US$10 per
student. New furniture would be provided for all the schools, since the
furniture saved from the destroyed schools was in very poor condition.






- 25 -
64.       Fourteen primary schools (3,360 places) serving 6,720 students
on a double shift basis would be constructed to provide educational
facilities for children of families in the residential areas to be
constructed through assistance from le sites and services component of
the project. These schools would all be of a 240 place aize. Ten of
these schools would consist of a simple classroom block, administrative
spaces, a storeroom and a library. Four of the schools would also
include basic workshops and facilities for homr economics courses to be
utilized by students from naighborinb schools and adults in non-formal
training programs. An adequate supply of teachers and supporting staff
is available for the fourteen schools.
Secondary Schools
65.       The five lower secondary schools (2,640 places) serving 5,280
students would replace destroyed schools and provide for modest
enrollment increases through intensive use of school facilities in double
shifts. In Guatemala City, one 960 place school would be constructed to
replace the lower secondary facilities of a school destroyed by the
earthquake. A second school of 600 places would replace two smaller
destroyed schools; this school would effectively serve 960 students per
shift, since it would be located on the site where a common facilities
center would be constructed as part of the Second Education Project and
would utilize the laboratories and workshops to be installed in the
center. Outside Guatemala City, three 360 place schools would be
constructed in El Progreso, Salama, and Chichicastenango.    It has been
agreed that the secondary schools would utilize the same curriculum as
the schools to be constructed under the Second Education Project, and
would benefit from the curriculum development and technical assistance
activities supported under the Second Education Project (Section 3.08
of the Education and Port Loan Agreement). Effectiveness of the
Second Education Project Loan Agreement would be a condition of
disbursement of the education component. (Part 4(b), paragraph (i) of
Schedule 1 of the Education and Port Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
66.       The total cost of this component of the project is estimated at
US$6.7 million of which US$2.3 million, or 34 percent, represents the
estimated foreign exchange costs. Construction costs account for 54 percent
of the total cost; furniture and equipment, 15 percent; professional services,
7 percent; project administration, 3 percent; and physical and price contin-
gencies, 21 percent.  (Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent;
price contingencies are based on the following escalation factors: 1976 and
1977 -- 15 percent; 1978 -- 12 percent). The estimated unit construction
cost of one story buildings for primary schools is US$75/sq. meter and for
secondary schools US$95/sq. meter; the estimated cost per sq. meter of the
multi-story primary school (see paragraph 63 above) is about US$120/sq.
meter. The US$4.2 million of the proposed loan allocated to this component will
finance 63 percent of total costs including all foreign costs and US$1.9 million
of local costs.   The US$2.5 million balance of local costs will be



- 26 -
borne by the Government. The construction cost estimates are based on
a constructional system for primary schools developed by the Government
with assistance from, AID.  This system would be used for the primary
schools and with appropriate modifications it would also be utilized
for the secondary schools.  The system is based on the repetitive use of
simple steel fra,mes with concrete block walls.  Application to secondary
schools would result in a shorter design and construction period with
estimated savi,ngs of about 30 percent over conventional brick and
reinforced concrete construction.
Administration
67.       The project unit of the Secoqnd Education Project (PEMEM),
located within the Ministry of Communicati.ons and Public Works, would
administer the secondary schools program.' To ensure that PEMEM will be
able to handle both the'Bank-financed Second Education Project and the
reconstruction program, PENEM''s staff would be increased by an architect,
an engineer and additional supporting personnel.  A second i   emplmentation
unit (CEEP), located in the same Ministry,would a,dminister the primary
schools program. The Government has agreed to designate CEEP as the
implementing unit responsible for the primary school oompo,nent of the
project.  (Section 3.02 (a) of the Education Second Port Loan Agreement).
Currently CEEP has responsibility for administering the AID-assisted rural
primary school project, which it has accomplished with a high degree of
efficiency.  CEEP would also be expanded by appointment of an architect,
engineer, and additional sipportirgpersonnel to enable it to carry out its
increased responsibilities.  The expansion of CEEP would be a condition
of disbursement for the education component of the loan.  (Part 4,
paragraph (b) (ii) of Schedule 1 of the hiucation and Port Loan Agrmement).
Technical review committees established under the Second Education, Project,
and including representatives from the Ministry of Education and the PEM
and CEEP proj,ect units, would analyze and review- archite,ctural designs and
equipment and furniture lists and specifications and certify that they meet
economic and functional standards and costs and the educational objectives
of each project institution.
68.       The Government has initiated a study to identify the catchment
areas of the 13 destroyed primary schools and to identify potential sites
for. reconstruction. Sites'for the 14 schools to. serve the sites and
services component would be provided within the project areas. Acceptable
sites for the five secondary schools have been tentatively identified.
The Government has agreed'that suitable sites for all schools., except the
14 to serve the. sites andi services component, would be identified and
acquired by January 1, 1977. (Section 3.05 of the Education and Port
Loan Agreement).
69.       The project would be implemented over a period of three and a half
years. Construction of the primary schools for the areas to be served by
the sites and services component of the project would be phased with the



- 27 -
three-year implementation period of that component. Architectural design
work for the 13 schools to replace those destroyed would begin as soon as
sites have been identified and steps initiated for transfer of title. Since
this process is time-consuming, it is anticipated that construction of most
of the project schools would begin in 1977 and be completed by December
1978; schools would be ready for occupancy for the 1979 school-;year.
Procurement and Disbursement
70.       Construction contracts would be grouped in packaged of US$300,00-
US$400,000 in order to attract contractors with adequate management expertise
and equipment. Because of the small size of the contracts, however, and
as in the recently approved Second Education Project, contracts for civil
works would be awarded to pre-qualified bidders on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures acceptable
to the Bank. The Government has agreed that current emergency procedures'
which may shorten the time required for award of contracts would be applied.
(Part B (i) of Schedule 4 of the Education and Port Loan Agreement.)
71.       Contracts for furniture and equipment would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
However, furniture and equipment that cannot be grouped in packages of at
least uS$50,ooo would be procured on the basis of competitive bdding in
accordance with local procedures. It is estimated that procurement under
these procedures would not in aggregate exceed 15 percent of the cost of
furniture and equipment or about US$165,000.
72.       Disbursements for the education component would be for (a) 56
percent of the costs of construction and professional services; (b) 100
percent of foreign expenditu rs for furniture and equipment or 85 percent of
total costs (i.e., estimated ex-factory cost) of such furniture and equipment
when procured locally; and (c) 100 percent of expenditures for key personnel
needed for project administration.
Project Risks
72a.      There are no special risks with regard to this component of
the Project.
C. PORTS
73.       As a result of the earthquake, the railway-owned port of Puerto
Barrios on the Atlantic was heavily damaged, and the Atlantic Highway leading
to it from Guatemala City was damaged and temporarily closed to heavy traffic.
This seriously affected the import and export of goods that were forced to
use alternative routes at a much higher cost. The highway has now been reopened
to heavy traffic on a temporary basis, and a more permanent rehabilitation
effort will be undertaken with the help of the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB) and other financial institutions. On the port side, although there
is no bottleneck at present due to the existence of slack capacity in the
neighboring port of Santo Tomas, some additional interim facilities have to
be provided to meet anticipated traffic needs until a major capacity-increasing
facility can be built and operated.



- 28 -
74.       The proposed project, therefore, consists of a limited rehabilitation
of Puerto Barrios to provide sufficient port capacity on the Atlantic for
the next three to four years; it also includes a technical assistance program
designed to help Guatemala in preparing its port expansion plans on a sound
basis and in setting up appropriate port institutions.
75.       Specifically, the project consists of: (a) converting the existing
350 meters long bridge, which provided access to the wharf which has collapsed,
into a two-berth pier; (b) dredging about 240,000 m3 alongside the bridge;
(c) provision of cargo handling equipment; (d) a port organization study; and
(e) a feasibility study for construction of a dry bulk terminal.
76.       To convert the access bridge into a pier, the area around it would
be dredged, existing damaged piles would be repaired, and an additional row
of vertical and batter piles would be driven to support a concrete deck 4-6 m
wide and 350 m long. To replace the equipment lost during the earthquake,
4 to 5 forklifts and 2 to 3 portable conveyors will be acquired.
77.       The several transport modes in Guatemala are managed by various
departments and agencies responsible to different ministries and, in some
cases, to the Presidency. Because of this fragmentation of transport ins-
titutions and the fact that they relate to different levels of the Government
hierarchy, transport coordination and policy-making are hampered at the
sector level and can be effected only at the highest level of Government.
The Guatemalan Government is aware of the difficulties and has been attempting
to remedy them for some time, but with very little progress so far. There is,
for example, considerable fragmentation within the ports sub-sector. Of
Guatemala's four main ports, Santo Tomas and Champerico are run by two separate
autonomous National Port Authorities responsible to the Presidency through
the Ministry of Public Finance, while Puerto Barrios and San Jose come under
the Transport Department of FEGUA, the National Railroad.
78.       In order to help resolve these problems, the port component includes
a study which would analyze the organization and management problems of existing
port institutions in Guatemala and propose an overall reorganization plan for
the port sub-sector which might include the creation of an appropriate regional
port authority on the Atlantic coast to operate Puerto Barrios and Santo Tomas,
or a national level organization which would supervise all port operations in
Guatemala.
79.       The rehabilitation of Puerto Barrios is an interim measure that will
allow for planning and construction of a permanent dry bulk terminal. Four
alternative locations for construction of a terminal are now being studied in
a Central American Transport Study (financed jointly by UNDP, IDB and C. BEI)
at the prefeasibility level. The project includes financing for a feasibility
level study to define the optimum location and economic viability of such
a facility.



- 29 -
Administration
80.       The Ministry of Communications and Public Works (MCPW), acting
through the Vice Ministry, will be responsible for the execution of the
Puerto Barrios rehabilitation.  The Vice Minister will be assisted by
consultants, who will, in close collaboration with FEGUA, prepare the
detailed engineering and tender documents and later supervise the construction
work.   The consultants will be Guatemalan but assisted by foreign experts.
In view of the small amount involved (US$130,000) and in order to speed up
project preparation, these consultants would be selected and financed by the
Government in accordance with its normal proceaures, but in consultation with
the Bank. The Bank has reviewed and approved the consultants' terms of
reference and will be given the opportunity to review and comment on bid docu-
ments for the rehabilitation works, the bids when received, and the draft
agreement prior to the award of contract. (Section 2.03 and 4.02 of the
Education and Port Loan Agreements.)
81.       The National Planning Council would supervise the port organization
study and the feasibility study for the dry bulk terminal. The Bank would
have the right to approve the consultants and their terms of reference.
(Section 4.04 of the Education and Port Loan Agreement.)
Cost Estimates and Financing
82.       The total cost of the port component is estimated at US$3.0 million.
Dredging and civil works represent 66 percent of total costs; equipment, 6
percent; studies, 6 percent; engineering and supervision, 4 percent a-I con-
tingencies, 18 percent. (Physical contingencies are calculated at 20 percent
of dredging and civil works; price contingencies are based on a price escala-
tion factor of 14 percent for dredging and civil works and equipment.) The
proposed Bank financing of US$2.3 million for this component, which will
finance all foreign exchange expenditures except those associated with engineer-
ing and supervision, represents about 77 percent of total costs.  The balance
of US$0.7 million equivalent wouid be provided by the Government.



-30 -
83.       The estimated cost of consulting services for the port component,
excluding contingencies, is US$0.2 million for 30 man-months of services
of which 20 would be provided by foreign specialists. The average cost of
services per man-month would be US$5,000 (excluding foreign travel).
Procurement and Disbursement
8h.       In order to expedite the contracting process so that the new port
facility can be available for at least part of the sugar export season which
begins in Novembers the main contract comprising marine works and paving
will be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with
local procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. However, international
particip&tion is likely, as all large local contractors are working in Joint
venture with foreign contractors. In order to save time and mobilization
costs, the contract for the dredging would be negotiated with the dredging
company (a Guatemalan-US f-irm) which is presently engaged in deepening the
approach channel to nearby Santo Tomas.   The limited amount of cargo handling
equipment to be provided under the rehabilitation proj,ect would be procured from
the same companies who supplied the equipment lost in the earthquake, in order
to insure standardization and continued use of existing spare parts. FEUA
would assist MCPW -n the procurement of this equipment. Procurement,of consult-
ing se6rvices which are Bank-financed will be in accordance with Bank guide-
lines.
85.       This portion of the loan .would-be disbursed by the.,-middle of 1977
in accordance with an implementation..schedule whi-ch.,has been agreed to.by
the Government.  Disbursements would.cover: (a),87 percent.of the total cost
of dredging work related to the,port rehabilitation,works; (b) 75 percent
of the total cost of civil works; (c).100..percent of the foreign cost of
the mobile equipment; and .(d) 100 percent of the foreign costs of the
consultants' services for the studies.
Ecological Impact
86.       The dredging would alter the existing.,seabed,.around the wharf.  The
dredged material which cannot be.used as selec.ted fill material for the fore-
seen port development of.Santo Tomas would b3 dumped in the deeper parts of the
sea. Experience has shown that the amount..of silting is extremely small. The
currents -are minimal and no.rivers empty.into the,bay. -No-large scale variation
in the dredged areas or.in maintenance dredging.quantities.are foressen. As
in the past,'the rehabilitated port facilities would handle commodities which
do not cause pollution, and no adverse ecological effects are therefore expected.



- 31 -
Economic Justification
87.       Traffic forecasts were prepared for the years 1976 to 1979, based
on information provided by the users, the port authorities and the Central
American Transport Study Group. They show that total traffic demand for
the Atlantic Coast is expected to increase by 8.7 percent per year, assuming
no capacity limitation on the Atlantic.
88.       On this basis, the collapse of the pier at Puerto Barrios will
mean a shortfall in potential tonnage that can be handled, of over 5s0
tons for the 1976-79 period. Because of its excess capacity, Santo Tomas
has thus far been able to handle most of the traffic diverted fram Puerto
Barrios without major problems, but at some additional cost. Ship waiting
time has increased from almost nil in 1975 to 15 percent of service time this
year, in spite of double shifting. There is also some double handling of
cargo and inefficient rail operations due to the fact that the rail yards
and the sugar warehouses are located in Puerto Barrios, 10 km. away. Conges-
tion problems are likely to become severe when the sugar export season resumes
next November, and additional capacity will thereafter be needed to meet the
increase of imports generated by the reconstruction program and the expected
traffic growth over the next few years.
89.       Since a carefully planned and engineered new investment providing
a substantial increase in port capacity on the Atlantic would be at least
two-and-a-half to three years away, four short-term alternatives were consi-
dered, which are not mutually exclusive:
(a) The proposed limited rehabilitation of Puerto Barrios, through
the provision of additional two-berth capacity, mainly for the
export of sugar;
(b)  The provision of lightera-ge facilities, making use of the
existing access bridge in Puerto Barrios;
(c) Improvement in Santo Tomas, including the purchase of bulk
handling equipment and the construction of additional
railway spurs and new storage areas; and
(d) Diversion of more cargo to Pacific ports or to other Atlantic
ports, such as Puerto Cortes in Honduras.
The total costs to the Guatemalan economy incurred by each alternative were
estimated on the basis of available infomation and were found to be the least
for the first alternative. Lighterage and diversion to other ports are
expensive solutions because of the high operating costs that would be involved.
Even with some improvement, Santo Tomas still would not have adequate capacity
to handle additional bulk cargo for the next few years, and the diversion of
such cargo to this port in the absence of extensive improvements would result
in substantial losses due to long ship waiting times.



- 32 -
90.       In addition to being the least cost solution, the first alternative
would also permit the long-term development of Guatemalan port facilities
on a planned basis. It will provide sufficient capacity at a relatively low
cost for the next three years so that future bulk shipping facilities for
Guatemala can be carefully planned. To ensure the development of an adequate
Long-term port improvement strategy, the Government agreed, that, during
the next three years, no other dry bulk terminals competing with the proposed
project will be constructed without giving the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to comment on its economic justification (Section 4.o6 of the Education
and Port Loan Agreement). Finally, the proposed rehabilitation of Puerto
Barrios would provide jobs for a larger portion of the port workers who
lost their employment following the earthquake than the other alternatives.
Project Risks
90a.      Possible risks involved for this component of the project are
the possibility of damage from another earthquake and delays because of
shortages of supplies. The design of the construction would provide
for the first risk to    a reasonable extent.  Since the period of
construction is short and the quantity of materials needed is small,
the second risk does not appear to be significant.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMNNTS AND AUTHORITY
91.       The draft Loan Agreements between the Republic of Guatemala
and the Bank and the Project Agreement between the National Housing Bank
(BANVI) and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement,and the text of the draft
resolutiOns approving the proposed loans are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan and Project Agreements con-
form substantially to the normal patterm of loans for sites and services,
education and ports projects and their more important features have been
included in Part IV of this report. A special condition of effectiveness
would be execution of an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the
Government, the Bank of Guatemala and BANVI establishing the arrangements
for transfer to BANVI of the local contribution required for the housing com=
ponent of the project. Conditions to disbursement under the housing component
are (1) appointment by BANVI, after consultation with the Bank, of a suitably
qualified Vice President for Reconstruction, (2) establishment of a Project
Unit within BANVI in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and (3) substantial
completion by BANVI of the management study referred to in paragraph 55 above.
Conditions to disbursement under the education component are: (1) effectiveness
of the Second Education Loan (Loan No. 1212-GU), and (2) expansion of the
primary education Project Unit (CEEP) by the appointment, after ccnsul,ation
with the Bank, of an engineer, an architect, a draftsman and a procurement
officer.



- 33 -
PART VI - REVOMMENDATION
93.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 24, 1976






AM= I
Page t of 4 pages
UATEMALA           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KN21 
_____________ --GUATENALA                                                       REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19TOI
TOTAL      108.9                                    MOST RECENT
AGRIC.        ..                     1960      1970   ESTIMATE        DKCUi IUp     PERU           COSTA RICA*
GNP PER CAPITA (USA)                   220.0      380.0      500.0             370.0      510.0      560.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION tIND-YR, MILLION)           3.6        4.9        5.2              4.1        13.3        1.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      35.0       45.0       48.0              83.0       11.0      34.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         ..         ..         ..
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND       49.6      Id.1       42.8              47.3       42.9       41.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND       21.9       16.6       13.7              13.4       14.?        8.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (tTHOUI       91.9       87.1       84.1             103.0 /    65.0       62.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH tYRS)      44.2       50.1       52.9              55.4       53.4       65.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4        3.1        3.0               3.5        2.9        3.4
POPULATICN GROWTH RATE (XI
TOTAL                                3.-        2.5        2.1|              2.9        2.9        3.3
URBAN                                3.5L       3.1 &      2.2               5.6        5.0        4.7
URBAN POPULATION It OF TOTAL)         34.Oa      33.8       33.6              40.0       53.0       46.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      45.0 A     45.0       45.0              4T.5      45.04       49.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                      52.0       52.0       52.0             49.4       52.0       48.0
65 YEARS ANO OVER                    3.0        3.0        3.0               3.1        3.0        3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   O.S /b     0.9        0.9               1.0       0.9L       1.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.8        ..         1.7/              1.9 /      1.5        1.6 &
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS ICUmtJLATIVE. THOU)         ..       41.3       96.2              36.8        ..       35.5
UISERS IT OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..         ..        4.4                .
FMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         1300.0 A      ..     1550.0            1100.0    4300.0      540.0
LABOCR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (XI       65.o0       ..        57 0             55.5       45 0       43.0
UNEMPLOYED (I OF LABOR FORCE)           ..         ..         ..              14.0       5 5.0t     5.1 8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC O BY-
HIGHEST  5V OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         ..         ..              26.3        I: 31.4 L-
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         ..         ..              54.3      62.6
LOWEST  20S OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         ..         ..               4.3 &      1.8
LOWFST  403 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         ..        ..               12.4       7.3          .
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10 OF OWNERS          76.6                                   6 ..  ..  62.7  93.0
S OWNED BY SMALLEST 10 OWNERS         0.S a       ..         ..               1.8       0.1
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            4200.0 &       ..     4430.0           2100.0     1920.0     1630.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       8990.0 j   6930.0     6940.0           3930.0     3200.0     1690.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          420.0      460.0         ..            350.0      470.0      250.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        116.0      97.0       97.0             91.0       98.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GIIANS PER OAY)            13.0       59.0       59.0             50.0       62.0       63.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        18.01A     19.0         ..              29.0       24.0      35.0
DEATH PATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4           S9.0       24.4       25.9              17.0       12.4       6.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      49.0       59.0A      610.0 e          107.0[     107.0      108.0
SECONOARY SCHOOL                     8.0 La   11.0        18.0 LI           19.0l.    35.0       28.0 L
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVELI            12.0       12.0       12.0             12.0       12.0       11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
IX OF SECONODARYI                   19.0       15.0&      16.0 ^            5.0       19.0La     10.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (XI               38.0         ..       47.0             50.0         ..       89.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGEI             1.9Q        ..         ..                ..        ..        1.1
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER tI%                     09.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
IX OF ALL DWELLINGS)                22.0         ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (3I                   4.0         ...
CONSUMPTION
___________
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        55.0      115.0         ..             38.0      134.0       71.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          7.0        9.0       11.0             10.0       17.0       23.0
FLECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          74.0      153.0      181.0 t227.0                407.0      591.0
NEWISPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)             1.0        1.6        1.6               1.0       3.6        6.2
EEOtF     N--O                       -  - R f-----------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AERM I
Page 2 of 4 page.
U.le.. otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, eMd for Moat RAeet fEtimate between
1971 and 1973.
we Costs Rica bas been selected en a. objective country for Guatemala beceos. it hee atteiled a higher 1eve of econeli. and aocial developmuent, while
having a similar resource base, export structure and degree of openm.. i.n it. enonoy. Both countries h.ae email populations, end both belong to the
Central American C-on Market.
GUATEMALA           1]6      la  1950-64;   lb  1964;   L.   1962;   /4  1961-63;   /.7-12 end 13-17 year of age respectively;        &   limgad   only.
1970    Li 1964-70;     /b  7-12 and 13-17 yerar of age respectively,    /a  Including evening schools.
MOSr RECENT RS'TI&ATE:    /a  Ratio of population under. 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 eod 0wcr;    lb  1974;   14   7-12 and
13-18 years of age respectively;    /d  Including evening schoole;    /a  gaet of natur-l incresse not
comparable with Population growth rate due to different .-n- baaea.
DOMINSICAN REP*      1970    L   Cones. figure. ;   lb  Du.e to migration, growth rate ia lower than the rate of netural increase;    /4  Ratio of popu.laton
under 15 and 65 ..d over to total labor foroce;   1d   Sant baluingo only;   Li Santa Doningo urban;     /4  7-12 and 13-18
years of age reepectively.
PERU                 1970    IaExcludes Indian Jungle population       l b  urban area. only;  14   greounaica11y active population;   /d  Including evening
echool..
COSTA RIICA          1970    /   Ratio of populetion under 13 and 65 send over to total labor force;    /b  Open unemploymnet;    /c  12-16 years of  ge..
RS, June 25, 1976
SEP INITICgS OF SOCIAL INDOICATORS
Lend__A_____th__1_2_                                                                  Population per nursing pereon - Population divided by o,number of practicing
Total -Tote1 eurfece ere    cunprising land area and inland   etera,                     male and female graduate nurses, "1trained"1 or "certified" n-c.e.. and
Acric.- Most recent eatlumate of agricultural area used temlporarily or                  auxiliary pereonnell with training or experien.e.
pe-nenently for crop., paaturea, market & kitchen garden. or to lie                PoPulatio  seta honi tal bed - Populetion, divided by numnber of hospita1 bed.
fol 10,..                                                       a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vailabl  in pubEic end pri-ete general and epecieliand hoepita1 end
rehabilitation cent..e; exc lude. nureing hone. and eetablielhent. for
GNP pet copit. (US$) - GNP per cepit. estimatee at market princes, calco-                cuatodial and preventive care.
1bted by ann  conversiten method a. World Rank Atlas (1972-74 baeie).              Par capits euvoly of celories Cl of requiremente) - Conputed frn    energy
equivalent of net food euppli.eo available in country per capita per doy;
Population and vital statistics                                                          available oupplies cenprise dnomestic production, importe Ieee export..
Ppoul.tien (mid-yr. million) - As of July first: if not available,                       and changea in sta'ck; net supplies exclude animal feed, needs, queti-
--erge of tM. end-year estimate..                                                     tico used in food processig end loases in distribution; requireoento
were   tinated by PAO bane.d on physiological needa for ..-Ia activity
Population deneity - per equate be - Mid-year population per equat    kilo-              end'health conedarinlg envircolwentai temperature, body weighte, ago   nd
neter (100 hecrare) of total are.                                                     nex distributione of population, and allowing 107. for we.t. at houee-
Population density - per square kn, of acric, lanid - Computed so above for              hold level.
agr,icultural land only.                                                           Per cApita suoDly of prtin fgsxne Par day) - Protein content of per
capita net uplof food per day; net supply of feud ie defined ac
Crude bt.irth sat  pe  huad-Ana          iebit.prtoen              fmdbove;_ requirenente for all countrisa eatabliehed by USDA tconomic
Cr____  rh____    Pe_ thu_nd-_Anul_i__bith_pe_tou____fld                                 Rceecrbh Services provide for a ninicunm allos,asce of 60 grux  of total
year population. ten-year aritheati.eaveragea ending is 1960 and 1970,                protein per day, and 20 gram ef animal and pulse protein, of hbich
and five-year average ending in 1975 far moot recent eetinate.                        10 gtems should be aninal protein; these standarde are Ioer than thos
Crude death rate per thmouand - Annual death. per thouaand of mid-year                   of 75 gram   of total protein end 23 grnam of animal protein a.soa
popolation ; tan-year aritlustic vavrage. ending in 1960 and 1970, end                average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food Su-vy.
five-year averge ending in 1975 for most recent eatimate.                          Per -apit, protein supply fron animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
Infent nortali tv rate f/thou)    nuldah        fifna under, one year of                 derived f.ce aninala and puIses in greams per day.
age per thouadlv        ite.rt                                                                  t       a   14 - Annual deaths per thoultand in age group
Life elpectancy at bithfyar- veag          Inbrhf ca        f  if  rmanign thia age group; auggested a. an indicator of
at birth; usuall   five-year average.aueding in 1960, 1970 end 1975 for               nlnutrition.
devlpngcutries.
iroa  eprdutio  tte -Averg    nbro       iedughtara a wonen will                  dcto
best in her norml.  reprductveperiod if she ePernce          reetag-Ad                   atd enrollan   ato-      Ermary school - En-Illnent of all agesa
oPacific fertility rates; usually five-yesr vavreges ending in 1960,                  percentcge ~of rtimaryochooI-age populatimn; includes children aged
1970  nd 1975 for developing countries.                                               i-1l years but adjue ted for different lengths of primary education.
PouaIo  row th rate(.1 -total -_ Compound   -..uI grnsth ratea of mid-               for countrins with univrsal e..ti, enrollmnt nay exceed 1007.
y-a Population" for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970 to noot recent year.                    since  ems, pupils are bob, or above the official echool age.
P.pulattep growth rate ;l ra          Cnpu ted like growth rat. of total              Adlunted enrolIm   t,ratio         steonay col- Computed an above;
popultion  difare  defeitfne s  urb.n are. nay effect conpaca-               necondar- educto-     eqie. t    l   t four years of epproved primary
.b     iity  f dta anong cutis                                                          instruction; provides generl, vocational or teacher training
Urban     1 po aion il ofnto_tl) - Ratio of urban to total population                   inetructmon for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correapondentc
differet defiiiosofuba          area. nay effect conp.arbility of data.,              couresa are generaly excluded.
ansong countr ies.                                                                 Years of scholNN   provi ded (firat and second level.) - Total years of
Age structure  MSercnt)- ChIldren (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 year),                schooling   atscndayl        l vocational instruction may be pet-
and retired (6   .eanad over) as percantagee of mid-year population.                  tially orcompletely excluded.
AR. desendenry ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and -osr to                VOCational enrollment Ml of secondaryl - Vocational Institutions
thoae of age. 15 through 64.                                                          include tachnical, industrIal or other programs which operate
Roenonic dapanac    ra tio - Ratio of Population under 15 end 65 and over                 indepoendenoly or as departmenta of eacondary inetitutio,,.
to the laba  force in age group of 15-64 years.                                    Adult literacy rate C%) - Liteamte adult. (able to read and write) ae
Pu_ily pElannix-acpos(uuaie               hu      C,anulativc nanber of                  percantage of total adult ppulation aged 15 yeer     and over.
acceptore of bi-rcth-contol device-uner cpices of national family
planning Progran aince inception.                                                  Hos .
Fenilvy ploanning, -  Iues  lof married womn) - Percentagee of married                Peraona per coon (averagte) - Average sasber of persons per rorn in
wnof childz-bringage (15-44 yeare) who use birth-control devicee                   occuPied conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwelling. exclude
to 911 married wman in same age group.                                                non-permanent etructurea and unoccupied part..
Occupie de11na wthou pie water Cl) - Occupied conventionalj
Employment                                                                               delng      i uba    andtrura   reas without inside or outaside piped
Total lebor force (thou.and) - tconrnicAlly .ctive pareonts, including                   water facilities sa percentage of pll occupied dwellings.
a  fsadfrces end unemployed hu t exc,luding housewivees atdeste, etc.;           cest      lcrct        lo  all dwollimxs) - Conventional ds.ellinga
deftatien  in vriou  coutre  araotcnprbl.wtht:eletricityi Nliving quarters, s percet of total doellinge in
Labor force in agriculture Cl)    Agricultural labor force (in faming,                   urban and rural area..
forestry, hunting and fishing) a. percentage. of total labor force.                R-al dwllin. enoctdoelcriyC                   - Computed as above for
Unenpioved C%l f l.b2l force) - Unemployed are u,ually defined as persons,               total twelieingsconly.
who are abl an d willing to take a job, out of - job on , given day,
remained out of a job, an d aeeking onrk for a specified minimum, periodCosn,tn
not exceeing one week may not be conprarble between countries due to               Raiorcevrs (pet thou op2) - All types of receivera fsr radio broad-
diftarest defGinitions ofunemployed and aource of data, e.g., employ-                 caata to general pnL~lic per thousaand of Population; excludes
net  ffic  t.ta tiatc, sple curveye, compulsory onemploynent inoumenc.             unlicensed receiver, in cen,trins and in year. when registration of
radio oasr wa in effect; data for ecant years may nsot be conparable
Inc-n distribution - Percentage of private Incomal (both in .oha and klind)              since most countrien abolished licens ing.
recived by richeat 57., richeet 207., poopest 207. and ponores 407. of             Paesne     aefe      hupp         asegrnt        opicntrcr
1                                                       ili~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~etin  leth.eight Personsa; excludea ambulances, hoarasa and
Distribution of land Oenerhip - Percentage oOf land owned by wealthisat               glemctricirty (bl/rstcap) - Annual I., enPtimo      of industrial, cn
107. and poorest17 of lend owner..                                                    nercial, public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita,
generalIly baaed on productimn data, without a11owaron for ba.ses in
Health and Nutrition                                                                     grids but allosing for Imports end exports of electricity.
Population, pet obraician -  ouaindvddb             -ober of practicing               ENgs-.    b.Lygr       p)-Pee capita alnnual conunmptimc in kilogran
physUicins qualifedfn"a medical ochool at university level.                           e t     d f;L9:rc1:itEic prodmction pins net imports of o-,'sprillt.



Page 3 of I, Pagee
iA.iuntaind21onaof7dMfIIAT       Jr9
Actual                      Projected            1960-   1973 -   1975 -    1980      96o    1975    198
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS h                        2        2          a         &     L-          93    1          90      18
1967-1969 Pis    & Exchanste Rates                Averag&ae       Got Rates         As Percent of GDP
Gross Domestic Product         1,0U4.9  2,1714.14  2,1 =.   2,5714.3  3,186.0 4a,159.1    5    T           5.3      5.5     100.0   100.0   100.0
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)  __.21      -gl      -n.        -6-       -2.     -                            .      6.9       2.0    -2.9    -2.9
Gross Domestic Income                   T92.7               2, 07.    3   ~     s~I       5.6     5.14     5.3me104.  T7774   4 M.U  971     977
Import (incl. NFS)               178.3    330.1   1409.5     14614.6    1495.0   635.14   4s.8  311.14     3.9       5.1     17.1    16.6    15.5
xorts   1.(import capacity)    .5L4I    a5&2     12,2        Lj.    _Iz       58       6.7     0.8       3.14     6.6    114.8   114.7    13.5
Resource Gap                      2T142   --.       147.3    -12679      65.7       .L                     6.8      -6.8             -rT7    -r
Consumption Expenditures         971.14  1,876.9  2,080.2   2,137.3   2,672.14  3,1445.3  5.2     5.3      5.1       5.2     93.1    814.4s  83.9
Investment   1  (incl. stocks)   117.14   250.0    359.8     1496.8     1s86.1   629.9    6.0    20.0      6.2       5.3     11.2    11L.6   15.3
Domestic Savings                  93.2    276.1    315.14     373.0     1400.3   583.8    8.7     6.9      14.9      7.14     8.9    12.8    12.6
National Savings                 10o4.5   273.1    312.5      370.0     1420.14  551.5    7.7      7.0      6.1      5.6     10.0    12.7    13.2
MERCHANDISE TRAD)E                        Annual Datta at Current Prices                                                     As Percent of Total
Tmports
Conassner Goods                 51.7    120.0     189.9      2148.0    3146.2   590.7    6.7    25.8     12.8     11.3     37.5    23.9    214.9
of which Food                 114.5    30.14    50.0       65.o      85.0    1140.0   5.9     28.2     11.2     10.5     10.5     6.2     6.1
Pstrol1um,oil & Lubricants      13.9     33.2     110.5     1146.8     185.5    330.9    6.9    82.14    10.9     12.3     10.0    13.7    13.3
Intermediate Goods              145.2   187.8    316.3      393.2     5714.8  1,079.7   u.6     29.8     12.7     13.14    32.9    39.7   141.3
Capital Goods                   2.0&     92.     law.        U31      28                1 30.0            9.6     12 1     19.6    22.7    20.5
Total Imports                13.       433.9   797.2    10.9       ,3.32562             .2    35.6     .1.8   tI2      100     10.      0.
Exports
P1rimary products              106.8    291.0    1482.2    1479.0     6914.8  1,099.2   8.0    28.7      7.6       9.6     91.9    71.7    65.14
of which Minarals              1.5      6.6      8.0       10.0      35.5     63.5   12.1     10.1     314.7    12.3      1.3     1.2     3.3
Manufactured Goods                        8.36)2 14.0)2                                                           17        14.14)  28.3   314.6
Other                            L.14   1148o:7 J  389.5    198.9      367.7    830.    30.:5)   28       ~       1.        3.7)
Total Merch. Exports (fob)     1il 2    4 0.0    67-1.6     677-.9  1, 06-2. 5  929.8  10. 8   2.6        96     12.7     100.0   10.     100.
Tourism                 ~~~~    ~~~~~2.0  37.0  78.0  55.0    125.0    195.0   25.2   145.2      9.9      9.3      1.7    11.6    11.7
Merchandise Trade Indices                   Average 1%7 6       0
Export Price Index             100.7    1.7       906       2014.8    268.5    375.1    2.5    17.2      7.1      6.9
Import Price Index              85.3    1148.7   228.14     2145.5    326.8   1457.9   14.14   23.9      7.14     7.0
Terms of Trade Index           118.0     93.2     83.14      83.14     82.2     81.9   -1.8    -5.14    -0.3     -0.1
Exports Volume Index            51.0    1140.5   157.2      1147.1    178.7    2314.14  8.1     5.8      2.6      5.6
VALUE ADDED RY SECTOR            Annual Data at 1967 .,69 Prices and Exchange Rates         Average Annual Growth Rates      As Percent of Total
Agriculture & Mining           320.0    618.3    670.3      683.6     8148.6  1,119.5   5.2     14.1     14.8     5.7     30.6     27.2    26.6
Industry                       163.5    4141.5  1455.7    1485.1     629.1    869.6    7.14   14.8      6.7      6.7     15.7     18.5    19.7
Service                        56.       5.               L405~     ),7- 6.               .LZ     i     .&       .hj     .        J7 ~   .-3s
Total-1                         T7-2Tg-4 121,C M.         -574I.7  -37W.- t,5           5.96. 2          5.3      5.5    100.0   100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                           Annual Data at Currant Prices                                                         As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                89.0    213.2    31414.0   14140.0    8145.3  1,713.2   7.0    27.0     19.7     15.2      8.5      9.0    13.1
Current Expenditures            75.14   176.8    296.2      332.3     7143.3  1,360.9   6.8    29.14    20.2     12.9       7.2     7.7    10.5
Budgetary Savinigs              13.6     36.14   147.8      107.7     102.0    352.3    7.9   114.6     16.14    28.1      1.3      1.3     2.6
Other Public Sector Savings      14.9    15.9      .                     .       ..     9.6     ..       .         .       0.5
Public Sector Investment        26.6     814.1    914.9     150.0     220.0    390.0   10.7     6.3     18.4     12.0      2.5     3.5      3.1
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                 Actual        Prelim.   Est.    Proj.       DETAIL OR                       1975-79 DEVELOPMENT   PLAN
As % Total Current Expend.)                   ____M      1975     1976    1980        PUBLIC SECTORToa
Ed.catio.                              22.     213       2.        21      10         INVESTMENT PROGRAM4                  prices
Other Social Services                  20.7    21.3      22.0     20.8    26.0        Social Sectors                     220.81.
Agriculture                             3.1     3.8      14.0     14.9     5.0        Agriculture                        139.1              13.6
Other Economic Serv-ices                7.8     8.0       8.5      9.7     8.0        Industry and Mining                 314.2              3.3
Administration and Defense             38.3    35.3      314.5    33.5    30.0        Power                              2114.9             20.9
Financial Services                     7-     10.3        9.0 *-O  3...   10.0        Transport and communications       268.1             26.1
Total Current Expenditures            100.0   100.0     100.0    100.0   100.0        Other143                                               46
_________________________________________________________________________ Total Expenditures      -10-6.               100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                              1960-     1965-    1970-   1975-       FINANCING
(Calculated from 5-year averaged data)          1965      1970     1975     1980
Average ICOR                                               2-27    1 Tl B     9 :7-        Public S.-ctor Savings          356.9              314.8
Import Elasticity                               1.65      0.66     1.03    1.11            Program aid counterpart           -
marginal Domestic Savings Rate                  0.18      O.,18    0.13     .Foreign Project, Aid                          6956.
Marginal National Savings Rate                  0.13      0.16     0.16     0.16           Total Financing               1,026.14           100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                              Total Labor Force                               Value Added Per Worke  (1     19j  Prcs&Ec. Rates)
OUTPUT PEN WORKER               In ThOusands          f Total          1980 -73         In U.S.Dllas       PecntfAverage8       1rici80 E 73
iz~   19ff   1*         1973      Growth Rate        190      973         196o      1973      Growth Rate
Agriculture                  773.8      797.9    66.0      56.8        0.3            1411.1     772.8      145.9     149.7          5.0
Industry                     1614.2     272.0    114.0     19.14       14.0         1,007.3    1,530.1      1.12.6     98.14         3.2
Service                      2314.7     335.1    20.0      23.8        2.8          2,1410.3   3,1439.6     269.14    221.1          2.8
Total                      1T777      -1,1405  I1=                    - TT1FTW.               IT 55r                                - 13
not applicable       -nil or negligiblre
not available        --less than half the                                                                                                 LAC - lB
smallest unit shown                                                                                                June 17, 1976



Page b of   pages
B8UM    oF PADUl, WfN8L ASSIEA2EE AND DMD?
(maunts In anil   a of U.S. do       at ournt price)
Avg. Annual
Actual                        Eptimated                                  ProJected                                  Growth RAte
122         am                                                                                                             ML1IBM1975 1*  jf118  65f
50H! bALtANC    OF PAY{WTS
h portoe (el. irs)                    232.5        349.5      531.9       714.0         827.,4      829.0       978.7      1,109.3     1,238.4     1,402.?     2,698.3          12.6
;,M  ta Invel. 672)                   28-43.4      336.7      520.7       791.3        935.64     1,14o0.4    1,253.5      1 3296      1-46.7      1,617.44    2 909.6          12.0
esource  flee I-N)  ~ ~ ~~-5tr           fli                                -TU.          STfl       -I   F                   -2428.!    -21,.       -2l.
Caterst (out                           .5.1          8.3 (9.4             -9.6           -6.4        --9.6      -19.9        -30.5       -42.0       -51.5      -125.9 3'4.
Dir    ect Ivetmet Inme              -18..3       -29.9      -36.5       -37.5         -60.3       -70.1       -77.1        -8.8        -93.3      -102.6      -165.3          10.6
Worer' R    oeittno e                                                                                       ... ..  . 
CurragSirgurLce  out)        j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  Jd~~~~  ~~46                               1;;.0        80.0        88.0         44        1  .9
Balancel TCirrje t Accounts              .           ..          .         ..             .            .          ...                      .           .                        13.0
Priate Direct Tovestat                 18.2         22.5       30.2        52.3         67.3       314.0        100.0         80.0        88.0        96.8       155.9           8.8
OfficiAl Capital  Oao-t                 3.3          7.6        8.9         2.7          10.0        32.0        30.0         25.0        25.0        15.0        22.0           8.2
Public H&LT i-nab
IDAbur.ome,t                         31.8         36.9       22.9        26.2        138.26       196.6       222.6        237.7       257.0       28,2        398.1       15   .1
oth-R  Hultrlo                      513.8        -20.3       12.9       -21.6           8.43         7.9       29.5         51.0        79.1       108.!,      219.1 S0.3
setppierst                                          3.2 -8  _f                          72.0          Puli   Debt ServiTcrT                       17rr7        -mrr             1.4
Other 111.2T Loaem.                                  ..         .            .             ..                      .            .
Di.burseece.to                         .           .           .          .             .            ..                       .
80ds185                            -           -          -       -           -LeietIvs.Ic                             1.           63       1.         .           .
Actra 1                   Saticate
apital Traoaan.ct    -.e.i.            21.0        -1.0        22.5         1.4            *16-7                                             1970      1973                 175
Charge to Net   eRves-   (-- Increa..e)  -4.5      -21.8      -79.2        10.3        -105.1        TEBT ANDI DENT SERVICE
IRA"ftlO PubPublic, Debt Out. & Diehu rad                                                                                         58.6       94.2     110.1     122.5       252.5
official  raoto&   root-tuc                        Lebt 3.3  7.6  8.9       2.7          10.0 1otArgetereet public Debt            35         6.1       7.          3         7 1
RePaYntson 00 public Debt   13.8       2.6       128.9     21 .6        8.3
public V&LT loan3                                                                                     Total Public Debt Servic    17.3       27.0      20.0      27.9        15.5
Tvrn                                 15,0           -          -           -           26.o 3th2r Debt SerPice (out)                                                       2
IDA                                    -            -          -           --                       Total Debt Sardco (rut)     17.3       27.0      20.0      27.9        15.5
Othper                                        5 9                        4.8
Otacr  Icitilaterl                     5.9         1.8       26.7        19.6         114365          Derd e 00 hprt D-r ,e   )
ov-r,ot                                6.1        25.1        0.7         1.5          11.9
Fubpliere                               -          3.2         -           -           72.o         Public Debt sevic            7.4         7.7       3.7      3.9   io     .
icnciol iotltutieu                    4.7         19.7        2.8         0.3          ,0.0         Total Debt Servlco           7.4         7.7       3.7      3.9         1.9
Bundo                                18.5           -          -           -             -          TDSuDirect Invest. I.c.     13.6        16.3      10.6      9.2         9.2
public~ Loans .e.i.                                                                    I .ZQ
Total Nolic MaLT icana  ~     50.         49.8       36.1        21.3         308.!,      Average Terea of Public Debt
EXTEtXAL                          Ac~~~~~~ktuale  Debt Out.tading co  Dec. 31,,           Avergag Intereet ()5.9                      5.1       3.9      4.4         5.3
EXTEId  Ink? (pabliofreign cwrreoc) ffl.eb           O-0                 Pe7ce5                      Average maturity (yeare)      15.8        25.7      28.!,    25.3        23.2
IDA ToItD Debt Oct. & Diobuyeed
Other K!tl.tllaerl                              38.5                      31.1                           .n 6 Public Debt 002       8.2        12.1      22.9     27.5        15.6
Suppler.cet                                    10.7                       35.2                           *  6 Public Debt Serice U1.S         10.2       13.2      9.6        20.6
.Sutppplicabl                                    5.                        1.8resig
Ficociil Inetittiticc                            3.2                       2.6                      IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Se-d.                                            0.5                       0.5                       c   n % Public Debt 01. -D                            -        -           -
Public Dbtbiec..i                                                                                       00   Puxblic Debt Service    -- 
Total Public 81.LT Debt                       -9:~                        01 
Othor M&LT Debte
Short-tao. Debt Cdisb.oo)
* ct upplic-blo                                                 e etaff estiete
t available                                                      nil or negligible
cot-aailable eo.cra,tey                                      1-- loethan half the                                                                              ii-1
but included it ttoal                                            goallest unit showIA
Juoe 17, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUATEMALA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of May 31, 197b)
$ Million Amount
Loan                                                         (net of cancellations
No.      Year       Borrower       Purpose                 Total       Undisbursed
Four loans fully disbursed                                   46.5            -
722       1971       Government     Livestock                 4.0          1.6
792       1971       GUATEL         Telecommunications       16.0          2.8
1104      1975       GUATEL         Telecommunications       26.0         26.0
1212      1976       Government     Education                14.5         14.5*
Total                                                       107.0
of which has been repaid                                   21.1
Total now outstanding                                        85.9
Amount sold                               3.5
of which has been repaid               2.8                  0.7
Total now held by Bank                                       85.2
Total undisbursed                                                         44.9
* Loan not yet effective.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTnENTS
(As of April 30, 1976)
$ Million Amount
Year      Obligor                   Type of Business         Loan    Eguity   Total
1958     Industria Harinera
Guatemalteca, S.A.         Flour Mill               0.2      -        0.2
1973     Exploraciones y Explota-
ciones Mineras             Mining & Processing
Izabel, S.A.                  of nickel            15.0      -       15.0
Total Gross Commitments-                                    15.2       -      15.2
less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                                       0.2       -       0.2
Total now held by IFC, of which                             15.0       _      15.0
has been disbursed                                               -            -
m         _-



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln. 722     Livestock Project; US$4.0 million of February 10, 1971;
Effective Date: July 10, 1971; aLosing Date:
December 31 1976.
Progress of this project has been slower than anticipated,
and it is likely that disbursements will not be completed
until about one year after the original closing date of
December 31, 1975. Operations improved somewhat when the
Bank and the Borrower (Government of Guatemala) agreed to
extend the project area to include the Central Northern
and Atlantic Coastal regions in addition to the Pacific
Coast, but a handicap is the lack of interest by banks
other than the Government-owned Natiunal Agricultural
Development Bank (BANUESA). The Government is considering
a series of measures suggested by the Bank to accelerate
commitments and disbursements.
Ln. 792     Telecommunications; US$16.0 million of January 5, 1972;
Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Initial delays, resulting from the consolidation of the
principal sector entities and lags in procurement will
delay completion of the project by about 21 months beyond
the original schedule. The project is now progressing
satisfactorily, and all contracts for the procurement of
goods have been signed.
Ln. 1104    Telecommunications: US$26.0 million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
This loan was declared effective on November 25, 1975.
Ln. 1212    Education: US$14.5 million of March 5, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979.
This loan has not yet been declared effective.
]/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of the strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 6
GUATEMALA - RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
LOANS AND PROJECT SUMKIAR
B      :RROVERs             Republic of Guatemala
AMOUNT  AND TEENS:        (1) US$20.0 million equivalent on standard Third
Window terms with interest at 4.85 percent
per annum.
(2) us$6.5 million equivalent for 22 years in-
cluding 4 years of grace at 8.85 percent
interest per annum.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:        The project consists of:
A. Housing
(i) Sites and services and materials
credits for about 10,000 housing units
to be developed in three locations
in the Guatemala City metropolitan
area;
(ii) Materials credit program for Ten
Departmental capitals severely
affected by the earthquake that
would help about 8,000 families
rebuild homes;
(iii) Snall business development program
that would provide credit to
producers of building materials
for housing construction, and also
provide commercial and industrial
outlets to be leased to entrepreneurs
in the three sites that will be
developed in Guatemala City
metropolitan area;
(iv) Technical assistance equivalent to
108 man-months of specialists
services; equipment and vehicles
would also be provided.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 6
B. Education
(i)  Construction of about 13 primary
schools to replace destroyed primary
schools, of 14 primary schools to be
included in the sites and services
component of the project, and of 5
lower secondary schools to replace
destroyed schools.
C. Ports
(i) Limited rehabilitation of Puerto
Barrios by converting the existing
350m long access bridge into a
two-berth pier, dredging about
240,000m3 alongside the pier, and
provision of cargo handling
equipment; and
(ii) A port organization study to help
improve the port institutions and
planning in Guatemala, and a
feasibility study for construction
of a dry bulk terminal.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of6
ESTIMATED COST:                                 (US$ million)
Local     Foreign     Total
A. Housing
Sites and Servi.ces                 15.2       5.3        20.5
Credit Program for 10
Departmental Capitals               4.o       1.0         5.0
Small Business Program               3.5       1.5         5.0
Technical Assistance and
Equipment                           0.2       0.9         1.1
Sub-total                  22.9       8.7        31.6
Contingencies                        6.5       4.2        10.7
Total Housing              29.4      12.9        42.3
B.  Education
Primary schools                      1.9       0.8         2.7
Lower secondary schools              1.4       1.0          2.4
Administration                       0.1       0.1          0.2
Sub-total                   3.4       1.9          5-3
Contingencies                        1.0       o.4         1.4
Total Education             4.4       2.3         6.7
C. Ports
Port rehabilitation                  o.5       1.7          2.2
Studies                              0.1       0.1         0.2
Sub-total                   o.6       1.8         2..4
Contingencies                        0.1       0.5         0.6
Total Ports                 0.7       2 .3        3 *0
TOTAL                                   34.5       17.5        52.0



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 6
FINANCIAL PLAN                              US$
(millions)    Percentage
A. Housing
Government                              22.3          53.0
IBRD(TW)                                20.0 *547.0
Sub-total                       42.3         100.0
B. Zducation
Government                               2.5          37.0
IBRD                                     4.2          63.0
Sub-total                        6.7         100.0
C. Ports
Governument                              0.7          25.o
IBRD                                     2.3          75.0
Sub-total                       3 .o         100.0
TOTAL PROJECT
Government                              25.5          49.0
IBRD                                    26.5          51.0
Total Sources                   52.0         100.0
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ millions by CY)
1976     1977     1978     1979    1980
Annual
A.  Housing                0.3      6.1      8.0      5.4     0.2
B.  Education              0.1      1.1      2.5      0.5
C.  Ports                  1.5      0.8       -
Sub-total          7.9      8.0     105       5.9     0.2
Total Accumulated              1.9      9.9    20 .4     26.3    26.5



ANNEX III
Page 5 of 6
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS:
A.   Housing
Contracts for civil works would be awarded to prequalified bidders
on the basis ol' international competitive bidding carried out in
accordance with Bank guidelines. While works would be grouped to
the extent possible to encourage competitive bidding, contracts
are not expected to be large enough to attract interest from
foreign firms. Procurement of vehicles for the Project Unit would
also be in accordance with international competitive bidding. For
this component, as well as for the education and port components
and in accordance with the Central American Agreement on Fiscal
Incentives, manufacturers from Guatemala and other Central American
Common Market (CACM) member countries would receive a preferential
margin of 15 percent of the c.i.f. base price or 50 percent of the
import taxes applicable to non-CACH manufacturers, whichever is
lower.
B.   Education
Construction contracts would be grouped in packages of US$300,000 -
US$400,000 in order to attract contractors with adequate management
expertise and equipment. Because of the small size of the contracts,
however, and as in the recently approved Second Education Project,
contracts for civil works would be awarded to pre-qualified bidders
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with local procedures. Contracts for furniture and
equipment would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. However, furniture and
equipment that cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$50,000
would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to the Bank. It is estimated that
procurement under these procedures would not in aggregate exceed
15 percent of the cost of furniture and equipment or about US$165,000.
C.   Ports
The main contract comprising marine works and paving will be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures. Interna-
tional competitive bidding will not be used in order to expedite the process;
however, there qfill be international participation, as all large local
contractors are working in joint venture with foreign contractors.
In order to save time and mobilization costs, the contract for the
dredging would be negotiated with the dredging company ( a Guatemalan-
US firm) which is presently engaged in deepening the approach channel



ANNEX III
Page 6 of 6
to nearby Santo Tomas. The limited amount of cargo handling
equipment to be provided under the rehabilitation project would
be procured from the same companies who supplied the equipment
lost in the earthquake, in order to ensure standardization and
continued use of existing spare parts. The National Railway
(FEGUA) would assist the Ministry of Communications and Public
Works (MCPW) in the procurement of this equipment. Procurement
of consulting services which are Bank-financed will be in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A.   Housing
Local or foreign consultants will be contracted to provide
specialist services in the fields of engineering, architecture,
urban planning, business development, and community organization
and training, for a total of about 108 man-months.
B.   Ports
Local or foreign consultants will be contracted to conduct a
port organization study and to carry out a feasibility study for
a dry bulk terminal.
TECHNICAL ANNEX:            Report No. 1220-GU dated June 24 , 1976



IBRD-12161
M  E X I C 0                                                                P E T E N                B E L I Z E
H                           /EiJ r N A
J H l! E 11 1! E T [ N A N G 4/ _ ~~~~A L T A        V E R A P A Z /  ,t
X                   1\      ~~~~~~~~~~E L Q U I C H E                                               1ca  /r  ZAE1.Lg 4Mo@eS 
/    X       OHt~~~~~~IIIEIUETENAIG I ///
SAN MARC05N                /                              A L T A p/bAA Z
7~~~~ s                              Qs$oP          l       pn                                       TTUICHEA  =  LK  //L '3R ;3Ccb~-1t 
QUEZALTE0NA JCLTEACO 
R E T A L H U L E U a SUCHITEPEQUEZ S i.,                                                                  A        /
SAN MARCOSPEQUET CCCC, C                         1                '-AREAS MOST AFFECTED ETHE EARTHQUAKE
CC'CCC 'CU9AE            S  C  U  I  N  T  L  A                                                               0 S A N T A  CCO S A  }   fo*ZCCCPC
LCC<ACNCACCCQ  2.         _              , , \\,aCe.,       C0 NCCACRCl
QU    ZA IE A  -A F         CC CGCC CTCG  C MCCC  P 
.!LObA                        A1 >Pbl
MACICC>.  *CCCCCA  C  C C,CCCCCC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AEAE
PC.,-  SC.~~~~~~~~~~~~C   C~~~~~          M~CD
EpC,,SC        C,.C



