Report No. 1220-GU                                                    FILE  COPY
Guatemala: Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Technical Annex
(a) Housing Component; (b) Education Component; (c) Port Component
June 24, 1976
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This docurnient has a restricted distnbution arnd may be used by recopients
only in the performaiceAof their official duties. Its contents navy not
otherwise be dtsclsed without World Rank authortzatton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit.          Quet.zal (Q)
US$1                    Q 1.00
US$1 million            Q 1,000,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)          10,000 square meters (2.470 acres)
1 square vara     =    0.699 square meters
1 square meter    =    1.3 square varas = 10.76 sq ft
1 manzana (mz)         10,000 square varas (0.699 has)
1 meter (m)       =    3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km)       0.62 miles (mi)
1 liter (1)            0.26 U.S. gallons
1 cubic meter (m3)=    264 U.S. gallons
1/3 paja de aqua  =    20 cubic meters of water per month
ABBREVIATIONS/ACRONYMS
AID          - Agency for International Development
BANVI        - Banco Nacional de la Vivienda
BG           - Banco de Guatemala
CABEI        - Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CEURI        - Centro Urbano Integrado
EDOM         - Esquema Director de Ordenamiento Metropolitano
(Master Development Plan for Guatemala City)
EMPAGUA      - Empresa Municipal de Aqua de la Ciudad de Guatemala
(Municipal Water Agency)
EEGSA        - Empresa Electrica de Guatemala, S.A.
(Power and Light. Company)
FHA          - Instituto de Fomento de Hipot.icas Asequradas
(National Mortgage Bank)
FIDEICOMISCO - Trust Fund
INTECAP      - Instituto Tecnico de Capacitacion y Productividad
(Training Institute)
INVI         - Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda
(National Housing Institute--BANVI's Predecessor)
NRC          - National. Reconstruction Committee
ICIV         - Instituto Cooperativo Interamericano de la Vivienda
(Interamerican Institute for Housing)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1         --         December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(A) H 0 U S I N G C O M P O N E N T
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



GUATEMALA
APPRAISAL OF THE EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX: URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT COMPONENT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.         INTRODUCTION   ................... . .......................       1
II.        BACKGROUND   ................................................    4
The Earthquake and its Effects ..................      .    4
Housing and Urbanization Trends ..............               4
Government Reconstruction Efforts
and Programs .         ..................................  5
Bank Assistance ....................                         7
III.       THE PROJECT ......................
A.  Project Description ..........................    7
B.  Detailed Features ............  ............... .    8
-IV.        EXECUTING AGENCY .................. ....................   16
A.  Implementation Responsibilities ..............   16
B.  Banco Nacional de la Vivienda (BANVI) ........   17
V.         COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS         .........................   27
A.  Cost Estimates ...............................   27
B.  Financing Arrangements         .......................   29
C.  Procurement ..................................   30
D.  Disbursement .................................    31
E.  Supervision ..................................   32
VI.        SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .....................   32
VII.       RECOMMENDATIONS ...................................   34
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission, consisting
of Messrs. R. A. Sison (Chief of Mission), G. L. Gattoni, H. Singh, J. Freedman
and Miss R. Duncan of the Bank and Messrs. K. Strong, A. Tapia, B. Goldstein,
D. Flowers and T. Vietorisz (Consultants). This report was prepared by
R.A. Sison and G. L. Gattoni of the Urban Projects Department.



-2-
LIST OF APPENDICES
APPENDIX 1           Site Selection and Location
APPENDIX 2           Detailed Costs and Relevant Information for
Sites and Services Component
APPENDIX 3           Supervised Credit Program
APPENDIX 4           Consultants' Terms of Reference for Operational
and Management Assistance to Project Unit in
BANVI
APPENDIX 5           Banco Nacional de la Vivienda (BANVI)
APPENDIX 6           Estimated Schedule for Disbursements



3
MAPS
IBRD 12227  Location of Sites and Services Project Sites--Guatemala City
IBRD 12261  Location of Ten Urban Centers for Supervised Credit Program
IBRD 12273  Location of Siesmic Faults and Epicenters of
February 4, 1976 Earthquake
IBRD 12274  San Rafael La Laguna Area Showing Phasing of Stage I Sites
IBRD 12275  Prototype Project Layout
CHARTS
WB   16022  BANVI Organization Diagram
WB   16092  Chart 1--Construction Schedule
WB   16093  Chart 2--Stage I Implementation Schedule
WB   16127  Prototypical Block Cluster
WB   16128  Service Level Options






GUATEMALA
APPRAISAL OF THE EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX: URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT COMPONENT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Guatemala has requested Bank assistance in
financing a reconstruction project following a massive earthquake on
February 4, 1976 which severely damaged the nation causing upwards of 23,000
dead, nearly 77,000 injured and one-sixth of the country's 5.6 million popu-
lation rendered homeless. In its wake the earthquake also devastated about
40% of the health facilities, 25% of the schools, and 40% of community and
social facilities. Because the quake inflicted a disproportionately heavy
blow to areas housing the urban poor -- where the preponderance of homes
and facilities were constructed of relatively fragile materials -- disparity
in wealth and income, which was extreme even before the disaster, has be-
come more pronounced. As a consequence, social tensions are becoming in-
creasingly pressing. These have been manifested especially through inva-
sions by about 28,000 families of private and publicly owned land. Such
a large-scale phenomenon is without precedent in Guatemalan society.
1.02      Discussions with the Government during a Bank reconnaissance
mission (February 19 to 27, 1976) indicated that Bank assistance in the
housing reconstruction program can be appropriately focused on Guatemala
City and selected urban centers to support Government's efforts in estab-
lishing institutional capability and suitable standards for future urban
development programs. This Technical Annex incorporates an appraisal of
the urban sites and services development project component which is part
of the Earthquake Reconstruction Project.
1.03      The Government has given a high priority to the reconstruction of
housing and has mobilized assistance from a number of domestic and foreign
sources. Guatemala is negotiating loans from several international and
bilateral agencies: IDB, CABEI, AID, and is considering possible loans
from the Governments of the Federal Republic of Germany and Canada. The
estimated total from these sources is approximately US$160 million. In
addition, during the emergency period and subsequent rehabilitation phase,
it has received grants from the Governments of Venezuela and the U.S.
Numerous private organizations are continuing to contribute funds and
materials through religious organizations, the Fundacion del Centavo and



- 2 -
the Red Cross of Guatemala. The housing program of about US$20 million,
financed with IDB assistance, is exclusively for rural areas. The AID program
is partly directed towards the provision of building materials also in rural
areas. AID is contemplating assistance for middle-income housing through its
Housing Investment Guarantee Program.
1.04      The project, as proposed, is designed to achieve two major objec-
tives:
(a)  creation of housing through new construction or
reconstruction and rehabilitation of dwellings for
those rendered homeless by the disaster who cannot
afford to build or buy new homes themselves; and
(b)  establishment of an institutional framework for
rational urban development in the future, with
the needs of the growing numbers of urban poor in
Guatemala as a prime consideration. To achieve
these purposes as quickly and economically as
possible, the proposed project would:
(i)  assist in financing sites and services proj-
ects in the metropolitan area of Guatemala
City;
(ii)  provide loans for the purchase of building
materials and technical assistance for re-
pair and reconstruction of damaged homes in
ten urban centers;
(iii)  promote expansion of local production of
home building materials through assistance
to small producers; and
(iv)  promote self-help and mutual-assistance
efforts, particularly in sites and ser-
vices projects as a means of reducing
costs and increasing employment oppor-
tunities.
1.05      The Banco Nacional de la Vivienda (BANVI), a semi-autonomous agency
of the Government of Guatemala, with experience in the housing field, would
establish a Project Unit to handle all phases of project development.
1.06      The main component of this project would build about 10,000 low-cost
housing units, provide building materials loans in the metropolitan area of
Guatemala City and extend construction loans to ten other urban centers most
damaged by the earthquake. The project also provides assistance for develop-
ing small businesses to deal with housing-related opportunities and a loan
program to expand the capacity of the building materials industry.



- 3 -
Finally, the project would provide operational and management assistance to
BANVI to strengthen its capability as a financial intermediary in urban
development.
1.07      For the magnitude and scope of reconstruction and housing devel-
opment in the metropolitan area, the sites and services concept is par-
ticularly well suited. Sites and services projects provide essential
accelerated and simplified implementation of basic infrastructure and
core-dwellings that offer permanent low-cost, far-reaching shelter solu-
tions to serious housing problems. In the metropolitan area of
Guatemala City, where extensive earthquake damage intensified an already
severe housing problem, project sites will be the framework from which
the individual lot and basic-core can be progressively developed and ex-
panded to meet the owner-builder's priorities and requirements.  Through
the proposed program, which would generate 10,000 serviced plots in
Guatemala City, it is anticipated that 60,000 people, mostly the lowest
20th percentile of income--the sector most severely affected by the earth-
quake--will be housed within 3-1/2 years. Equally important is the in-
troduction with this program of a large-scale approach to effectively over-
come the existing acute urban housing deficit which is forecast to reach
800,000 in the next 15 years in Guatemala City's metropolitan area. This
progressive development approach will establish a mechanism for supplying
the basic shelter needs of 14,000 people by mid-1977 and 27,000 persons
annually--from the lowest-income levels who do not now have any formal way of
obtaining permanent homes. The major initial impact of the program will be to
provide affordable solutions to this sector of the population.
1.08      Given these circumstances, the Appraisal Mission which visited
Guatemala City from April 19 to May 2, 1976 assisted the Government (prin-
cipally BANVI) in the formulation of a project consistent with the general
framework established by the National Reconstruction Committee. Project
preparation was carried out by BANVI and its consultants with advice and
assistance from the Appraisal Mission. This report is based on the findings
of the mission, consisting of Messrs. R. A. Sison (Chief of Mission), G.
Gattoni, H. Singh, J. Freedman and Miss R. Duncan of the Bank and Messrs. K.
Strong, A. Tapia, B. Goldstein, D. Flowers and T. Vietorisz (Consultants).
Messrs. D. A. Strombom and G. Castaneda, also of the Bank, assisted the
mission part of the time.



- 4 -
II. BACKGROUND
The Earthquake and its Effects
2.01      On February 4, 1976 at 3.02 a.m. local time, Guatemala was struck
by a major earthquake which measured 7.5 on the Richter Scale. The epicenter
was placed about 115 km (80 miles) northeast of Guatemala City. This earth-
quake was followed by hundreds of aftershocks. The largest aftershock measur-
ing 6.0 on the Richter Scale occurred on February 6 at 12.19 p.m. local time
(see Map IBRD 12273).
2.02      The earthquake was caused by the interaction between the Americas
and Caribbean crustal plates in which the part of Guatemala north of Motagua
fault zone is slowly (on a geological time scale) moving westward with res-
pect to the southern part of the country (Map IBRD 12273).
2.03      The total population affected by the earthquake is estimated to be
over 2.5 million. More than 23,000 people lost their lives and nearly
77,000 were injured, some 258,000 housing units were wholly or partially
destroyed. As a result, a million people--approximately one-sixth of the
population of Guatemala--were left either completely homeless or without
adequate housing.
2.04      Throughout the affected areas of Guatemala the loss of housing
caused by the quake made an already stringent housing shortage even worse.
Nationwide, prior to the quake, an estimated 300,000 dwelling units out of
a total of 800,000 were so defective as to need replacement or rehabilitation.
Thus the post-quake housing deficit can be estimated as at least 500,000--
probably more.
2.05      The situation in Guatemala City is particularly grave.  About
58,000 housing units--25% of the housing stock--were severely damaged.
Of this total about 80% housed the urban poor, at least a quarter of them
rental tenants, who now have neither houses nor land.
2.06      Most of the houses damaged or destroyed were of adobe and brick
construction. Their fate depended very much on their location. Where the
earthquake effects were most severe destruction was almost complete. Some
reinforced concrete construction also suffered due to poor earthquake design,
or construction.
2.07      Preliminary estimates calculate the monetary loss in all sectors
of the order of US$1,021.0 million of which cost of housing reconstruction
is estimated at US$600.4 million. The housing damage caused to the Guate-
mala City metropolitan area alone is estimated at US$295.4 million.
Housing and Urbanization Trends
2.08      The problem in housing following the earthquake is different in
the capital from that in the smaller urban areas and rural zones. The
metropolitan region of Guatemala City presents an example of strong



- 5 -
"primacy" in relation to a normal distribution of city sizes.  It receives
the brunt of rural-urban migration, contains 47% of the country's industry--
including a much higher proportion of modern, dynamic manufacturing indus-
tries--57% of construction and 65% of services. It is the only city which
has a substantial marginal population living in rented or squatters' quarters.
Compared to the size of its metropolitan region, of some 1.2 million, the
next city, Quezaltenango, is of an entirely different character, given its
population of barely sixty thousand, as are the even smaller cities that
have received the most severe impact of the quake. Outside of Guatemala
City, the problem is to aid the reconstruction effort of families whose
houses, however modest, stood on a family-owned plot. In the capital, how-
ever, the collapse of rental housing has left a large group of low-income
population without a roof creating further economic and shelter instabilities.
Government Reconstruction Efforts and Programs
2.09      The extent of damage caused by the earthquake was initially
evaluated and reconstruction policy was formulated by the Government very
quickly. I/
2.10      The Government received assistancce from experts of the United
Nations Economic Commission for Latin America. On the basis of fairly complete
information, the housing damage was estimated at 258,000 units. The key
findings of damage assessment is that the productive capacity of the country
has remained essentially untouched, but that very serious damage in loss of
life, injuries, and material losses has been inflicted on the very social
groups least able to sustain it. The adobe construction whose collapse
caused much of the loss served primarily the lower-income groups both in
the direct form of housing, and indirectly via health, education, and social
service centers. The Government has endeavored to cope with the housing
needs of the squatters by allowing them to build temporary dwellings and pro-
viding them with minimal services (e.g., municipal-owned trucks deliver water
daily). Workers from the Municipality of Guatemala have also provided some
technical assistancce which consists essentially of advising leaders of the
new community on rational layouts for the temporary dwellings. In some sites
where the squatters do not have adequate building materials, the Government
has constructed temporary "barracks" type row dwellings which can accommodate
20 to 25 families per building.
2.11      In the Government's evaluation and reconstruction document, res-
ponsibility for housing reconstruction in the capital and major urban centers
is assigned to BANVI. This document also contains the proposed financing
structure of the reconstruction effort. Over a four-year period, the funds
1/   Government of Guatemala.  Evaluacion de los Danos Causados por el
Terremoto, su Impacto y Lineamientos para un Programa Immediato de
Reconstruccion. (Evaluation of the damage caused by the earthquake,
its impact on economic and social development, and guidelines for an
immediate reconstruction program), March 1976.



assigned to this task amount to Q 600 million, with one-third of the amount
projected for each of the initial two years. Of the estimated funds re-
quired Q 250 million could be public funds, including Q 150 million from
foreign assistance in the form of loans and grants; and Q 350 million from
private sources.
2.12      Based on the damage estimate and the Government's proposed scale of
the reconstruction effort, a total of Q 600 million would be needed to cover
the requirements of 258,000 dwelling units; an average of Q 2,325 each. A
more detailed breakdown of the projected reconstruction program is as follows:
Units           Estimated Cost
'000               Q million
Metropolitan Area                     58                   295
Departmental Centers                   12                   47
Municipal Centers                      46                  111
Rural                                141                   147
All Housing Reconstruction           258                   600
2.13      While the financial estimates and unit cost levels are for an aver-
age standard dwelling and appear reasonable, the allocation of Q 350 mil-
lion (58%) as originating from private sources seems unrealistic because
less than 25% of families that lost their homes, belong to income groups that
can afford to obtain a loan from private sources.
2.14      In addition to assigning a pivotal role to BANVI for the reconstruc-
tion of housing and related infrastructure in Guatemala City and the principal
urban centers in the country, the Government's National Reconstruction Com-
mittee has prepared guidelines for all agencies called upon to execute the
reconstruction program. In addition, the National Reconstruction Committee
is looking into a number of areas where possible bottlenecks could exist in-
cluding the provision of adequate building materials; construction manpower;
land for suitable housing projects, and the overall capacity of the construc-
tion sector.
2.15      A number of agencies involved in the reconstruction program have
defined in more detail their respective roles in the execution of the pro-
gram. The Consejo Nacional de Planificacion Economica (National Planning
Council) has recently published some guidelines designed to relate the
efforts toward reconstruction to national economic and social development
programs. One of the most interesting suggestions of the Planning council
is the establishment of an institution whose main responsibility would be
to integrate urban andd rural housing problems into a larger framework of
a policy for human settlement. The Council also proposed a general stra-
tegy in the housing sector which has both a spatial dimension and a program
content.



-7-
Bank Assistance
2.16      In the formulation of the proposed project the appraisal mission's
main concerns were the development of a project that would be consistent with
the framework developed by the National Reconstruction Committee and would
insure the strengthening of the main institutional agency--BANVI which would
carry out a program that would reach the urban poor who have been affected by
the natural disaster. Bank assistance within this context would be to work
with Guatemalan technicians in initiating a national program for low-income
housing emphasizing appropriate and affordable standards. Along with the
objective of reducing costs and thereby making housing available to a larger
segment of the urban poor, the project would create jobs calling for upgraded
skills as well as self-help and mutual-aid techniques in the construction and
improvement of housing units and requisite community facilities. Consequently,
the project would not only replace or restore about 17% of the damaged housing
units in Guatemala City and about 70% of those destroyed in ten urban centers
outside of the capital, but it would also act as a catalyst in strengthing an
ongoing institution to implement and supervise future urban programs designed
to serve the needs of the urban poor.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The project, which would be implemented in three and one-half
years, forms part of the Government's reconstruction program designed to
provide housing for families affected by the earthquake. The project is also
a means for demonstrating that by applying appropriate and affordable design
standards, using self-help and mutual-aid in construction, and organizing the
community served, it is possible to provide housing that reaches down to the
population in the 10th percentile of the income distribution scale. The
project constitutes a viable and attractive approach to meeting the large
housing deficit in Guatemala. It also demonstrates the beneficial effects of
a balanced community, wherein job centers and adequate community facilities
are provided as integral parts with residential sites.
3.02      The project supports the Government's intiative to build up and
strengthen the institutional capability in BANVI as one of the most import-
ant institutions in the housing and urban sector throughout the country.
3.03      The project, details of which are listed in Appendix 2, consists
of:



-8-
(a) Sites and Services--for about 10,000 housing units to be
developed in three new locations in the Guatemala City metro-
politan area. The first, already in advanced planning, would
provide about 2,400 sites, and include community facilities;
day-care centers; elementary schools and playfields; com-
munity multi-purpose centers; bus shelters and open space
for public activities; off-site infrastructure mainly for
access roads and water distribution;
(b) Construction Materials Loans--to individual families for
the construction or expansion of housing units;
(c) Credit Program--for 10 urban centers severely affected by
the earthquake that would benefit about 8,000 families;
(d) Small Business Development Program--provision of com-
mercial sites for small business enterprises in each of the
three Guatemala City project sites and extension of credit
to producers of building materials for housing construction; and
(e) Technical Assistance and Equipment--provision of four specialists in
engineering, business development, urban planning and management to
assist BANVI in the implementation of its program and in strengthen-
ing this institution's overall planning and programming activities.
Equipment and vehicles would also be provided.
B. Detailed Features
Sites and Services
3.04      The proposed sites and services program consists of a phased 3-1/2
year program producing between 2,500-4,000 plots annually. These will be
developed in 500 to 3,000 plot project sites in three areas within a 9 km
radius of the city center (Map IBRD 12227), all being accessibly by inex-
pensive public transportation. It has also been agreed that, subject to
prior approval of the Bank, the sites and services component may include units
to be developed in one or more of the departmental capitals described in para
3.21. Sites have been selected in terms of present and potential employment
areas of the city; all are in close proximity to industrial and commercial
development areas. The proposed project site in the Northeast sector of the
city is immediately adjacent to existing BANVI sites and services projects; in
the Northwest area, the selected project site is within 200 m of a new BANVI
sites and services project; and, in the Southwest location, the proposed sites
are in close proximity to BANVI housing projects. All identified project
sites are within the developed areas of the city, and may be readily provided
with water access streets, lighting and other urban services (see Appendices 1
and 2 for site selection and service detaiils).
3.05      Water is available to all identified project sites:  the North-
East sites--San Rafael La Laguna--would be supplied by an extension of the
Empresa Municipal de Aqua de la Ciudad de Guatemala (EMPAGUA) lines already



- 9 -
serving the area--it is not anticipated that major additional infrastruc-
ture will be required; for the other areas--Northwest and Southwest BANVI
would insure that the provision of water and other utilities would be in
accordance to a schedule agreeable to the Bank. Additional water sources
to those supplying these areas are scheduled for operation in 1978-79.
Abundant groundwater is also available for all project areas. Storm and
water-borne sanitary sewerage will be collected on-site by means of a trunk
network with outfalls to rivers that now drain the city's sewerage. Indivi-
dual sites will be provided with basic infrastructure-- water, water-borne
sanitary sewerage, paved footpaths, streets, storm drainage, public lighting
open space, community centers, schools, markets, as well as special plots with
structures to house small-scale commercial and manufacturing industries.
These small industries would also offer training and employment in useful
trades. The result of all these activities would be the integration of the
basic community infrastructure essential to long-term physical and economic
development of the individual and the community.
3.06.     Specifically, each project site would offer options (service
levels) that range from a serviced site to a basic, partially completed,
one room dwelling. A range of plot sizes would also provide more development
flexibility and cost options for the user (see service level description costs
and details, Appendix 2). Coupled with these options, a construction mate-
rials credit and technical assistance program would be provided to enable
and encourage self-help completion/expansion of basic plots. Layouts and
basic cores are designed to facilitate efficient and flexible expansion.
3.07      Construction of the projects is programmed in three stages over
a 3-1/2 year period (Chart WB 16092). Stage I is to be implemented in two
phases, the first 800-1,000 plots to be allocated by mid-April 1977, followed
by 1,400 to be completed by August 1977. An additional 1,400 units would
be completed by October 1977 in Stage II. Stages II and III in other areas
are to be developed in 1978-1979.
3.08      An accelerated implementation program is proposed in order to pro-
vide the first 800-1,000 plots ready for occupancy by mid-April 1977 before
the rainy season. In this regard, land for the San Rafael La Laguna site,
consisting of 50 hectares for Stages I and II should be acquired prior to
the presentation of the loan to the Board. During negotiations agreements
were reached to this effect.   Likewise, agreements were obtained that BANVI
would acquire the additional sites within a timetable acceptable to the Bank.
To further accelerate the construction process, the materials credit program
would be available two months prior (February) to lot allocation thereby
enabling self-help dwelling construction to be well advanced by the arrival
of May rains.
3.09      This accelerated first phase would also provide valuable design
information and execution experience and feed-back to better adjust pro-
cedures and criteria for the balance of units in Stages II and III--
1978-79.



- 10 -
3.10      Design Features and Innovations of the Program:  Specific design
criteria and concepts are proposed to accelerate and simplify construction,
reduce unit costs and provide a more flexible and functional layout.
Emphasis is on the provision of lot/dwelling unit options that provide a
range of sizes and costs that are affordable by the lowest 10 to 40 percentile
of the metropolitan Guatemala City population.
3.11      BANVI has constructed low- and middle-income housing units since
1973. About 2,715 of these are priced at a range of Q 3,500 to Q 13,000.
BANVI has also constructed 3,200 lower cost units ranging in cost from
Q 1,850 to Q 2,500.  These are based on a sites and services2concept of
which the lowest level of service is a hasic core unit (24 m ) with finished
floors, doors, glass windows on 90-95 m lots. Unit densities for these
projects range from 35-50 units/ha. While expansion of the basic unit is
anticipated, no technical or financial assistance has been provided for
the self-help process. Land has been reserved within these project sites for
schools, but no formal plans or arrangements have been made to provide per-
manent buildings.
3.12      Modifications to the standards used for previous sites and services
experiences have been introduced in the project's design and reduction in
costs of about 25% are being realized. Most important is ihe provision of
two lower service level options. These consist of an 82 m (average) lot
with (a) on-site installations (pipes) for individual sewerage2 water and
storm drainage hookups; and (b) the serviced plot with a 5.6 m sanitary
core unit (see Appendix 2). A "test mix" of these service levels is pro-
posed such that each project site would have approximately 10% Service
Level I plots--a serviced plot; 50% Service Level II plots--a plot with
sanitary core; and 40% Service Level III plots--a plot with basic core
dwelling. The distribution and location of these service level options
within the project layout assures an integration of types and strategic
placement of the larger Service Level I lots (2% of total) with potential
commercial/residential development. A prototypical configuration is
illustrated in Appendix 2, Chart WB 16127.
3.13      This "mix" proportion emphasizes the self-help, owner-builder,
concept in that 60% of the plots will be of the lower-service levels. It
is anticipated that in later stages and in future projects, BANVI will
increase the proportion of serviced plots and decrease the percentage
of plots with basic core dwellings. These reduced level options not
only achieve lower user costs and simplified and accelerated implement-
ation, they provide the owner a serviced lot to which a temporary unit--
an existing "champa" or improvised dwelling of discarded materials--can be
installed in a day and serve as a base of operations for the gradual process
of constructing the permanent dwelling (see Appendix 2). The progressive



- 11 -
development stages of self-help construction will be aided by a constrtuction
materials credit program and technical assistance available to the owner-
builder. The participant will be able to draw selected construction mate-
rials, as needed, on a credit account for up to Q 400, from an on-site ware-
house.   Assistance in design, construction, use of materials, etc., will be
provided during the eight-month "self-help" stage of the program. Experienced
construction foremen will supervise and advise on-plot as required and use
"models" constructed within the project to demonstrate safe and efficient con-
struction techniques, designs, costs and room options to the owner-builder.
This social promotion/construction advisory staff would form an important
part of the Project Unit and the emphasized self-help concept of the program.
3.14      Sanitary core and basic dwelling units will be contractor built
with provision of finishing by the owner. Electric and water instal'lations
and meters will be by contractor and meet the utility company requirements.
Expansion of the basic electrical installation may be by self-help. Off-site
infrastructure to service the project sites will be designed and implemented
by the respective utilities companies with financial arrangements by the
Government.
3.15      In addition, an on-site program for the organization and develop-
ment of individual or small group enterprises (see section 3.24) would be
designed to provide essential employment and training. Emphasis would be on
manufacturing of simple, basic construction components--with cement block,
concrete pipe, etc.,--and standardized prefabrication of economical elements
such as doors, windows, etc. Outlets for these products could be city-wide,
but the immediate on-site market would benefit and augment the materials
credit component of the project. Flexible buildings and open space for these
would be reserved in strategic locations on each project layout, and option-
ally, could be integrated to the materials credit warehouse.
3.16      Residential lots would be organized in groupings (see Appendix 2,
Chart WB 16127) to provide evenly distributed and easily accessible open
space, while providing reduced infrastruc ure length and unit densities of
between 75-80 units/ha. Larger (90-120 m ) serviced lots would be provided
in commercially desirable locations--corners with highest volume of pedestrian-
-vehicular traffic--that have the potential flexibility to be 2developed as
commercial/residential units. The range of lot sizes--75.5 m (5.4 x 14 m)
to 94 m (6.3 x 15 m) would permit selection based on family size (range:
3-12 persons), costs and capacity to pay.
3.17      The social promotion/construction advisory staff would organize
community construction projects designed to (a) complete and maintain public
areas; (b) build specific community structures--community centers, sports
fields, etc.,--by mutual-help; and (c) generate community involvement,
decision-making and on-going project operation and maintenance responsibility.
3.18      Unit Design and Cost:  Three service levels and four lot size
options are provided (see Appendix 2 for detailed descriptions and costs):



- 12 -
2         2             2
(a)  Service Level I--is a 75.6 m  , 88.2 m   or 130.5 m
plot with individual water, sewerage and surface
drainage connection to the main network. Cost = Q 765
net of land, Q 952 with land;
(b)  Service Level II--is an 81 m  or 94 m2 plot with a 5.6 m
sanitary core consisting of a water toilet, shower, laundry
sink (pila), electrical fixtures, enclosing walls and roof.
Cost = Q 1,244 net of land, Q 1,431 with land; and
(c)  Service Level III--is an 81 m  plot yith a basic one-room
core dwelling. Total area is 26.8 m inclusive of the
sanitary core (b) above. This core dwelling is a partially
enclosed space that is to be completed or expanded by the
owner. Cost = Q 1,898 net of land, Q 2,085 with land.
3.19      Selection of Households:  The social department of BANVI's Project
Unit will screen and evaluate eligible applicants. Selection criteria would
include:
(a)  displacement of household due to loss of dwelling/shelter
in earthquake or residency in squatter settlement or in-
adequate housing conditions for at least 2 years prior to
the earthquake;
(b)  a maximum household aggregate income of Q 150 per month;
(c)  capacity of the household to pay Q 9-Q 24 per month for
shelter and other utilities;
(d)  intention to live on assigned lot with the understanding
that the housing unit provided will not be a completed
dwelling; and
(e)  willingness and ability to undertake completion of the
housing unit.
In addition special construction/leadership skills may be identified by the
selection committee. Candidates interested in taking part in the small
business development loan program will also be considered.
3.20      Final selection of the applicants will be made by lottery.  The
allottee will be required to sign his mortgage before occupation.
Credit Program for Selected Urban Centers
3.21      Out of a total of 16 Departmental Capitals (Cabeceras de Departa-
mentos) BANVI has analyzed and recommended assistance for ten urban centers
that have been damaged by the earthquake for assistance in the reconstruction



- 13 -
program (Appendix 3). The rates and percentage of destruction list the town
of Chimaltenango and El Progreso as 100% destroyed, Salama with 75% of its
housing units severely damaged, three western urban centers (Solola, Quiche,
Totonicapan) and two eastern urban centers (Jalapa and Zacapa) were 45-50%
destroyed. Only Puerto Barrios with a population of about 28,000 and
Antigua (population 18,800) reported damage of 15% and 25%, respectively,
of its housing stock. The total number of housing units severely damaged
is about 11,000 (Map IBRD 12261).
3.22      Under the project it is proposed to extend supervised credit to
about 8,000 households (or 42,000 people) with each credit ranging in size
from Q 200-Q 1,000. The effective impact of this component is consider-
able in view of the small populations of these cities. In the urban centers
where BANVI does not presently have a branch office, credit extension to
individual families would be carried out through commercial banks and other
suitable credit institutions. Agreements with individual banks and credit
institutions including specific responsibilities with respect to the pro-
vision of credit inspectors, percentage of commission, reporting systems,
and supervision of the loan need to be entered into between BANVI and the
banks or credit institutions involed. Contracts between BANVI and these
institutions would have to be reviewed and approved by the Bank.
3.23      Based on preliminary surveys conducted by BANVI, utilization of the
loan would be primarily for reconstruction or rehabilitation of damaged
housing. A major part of the loan would be utilized for building materials
and skilled labor and, in some instances, the credit would be used for reha-
bilitation of workshops or stores.
3.24      BANVI's Project Unit would monitor this program and provide the in-
spectors necessary to insure efficient utilization of the credit program.
Small Business Development Program
3.25      This component of the project comprises financial and technical
assistance to BANVI for:
(a) the provision of commercial sites (about 6 ha) in project
sites and technical assistance for the development of a
small business capability in BANVI to deal with housing-
related business opportunities; and
(b) provision of credit and technical assistance to the
building materials manufacturing sector with special
emphasis on support of small businesses.
3.26      The main objective of the program is to maximize job creation and
skills training for the poor through entrepreneurial development, emphasiz-
ing the broadest involvement of low-income persons in the economic processes
of Guatemala. It is also planned to maximize housing-related opportunities
within a comprehensive and integrated overall plan for the sites and serv-
ices area and to identify any other opportunities which are job-creating and
consistent with the skills, lifestyles and needs of the residents of the
sites and services areas.



- 14 -
3.27      Commercial sites would be developed integrally with residential
sites and community facilities. On the average, about 2 ha of land would
be sei aside for each project site for commercial purposes.  Based on
200 m of land and standard building space of 60 m about 100 stores/shops
can be constructed. These units would be leased to prospective entrepreneurs
for terms varying from 5 to 10 years with an option for sale. Rental levels
would be determined by the Project Unit which would cover the capital cost
(estimated at Q 3,750 per unit) plus coverage for administrative cost, in-
surance and default. The Project Unit with assistance of the staff from
the Banking Department and qualified consultants from the Instituto Tecnico
de Capacitacion y Productividad (INTECAP) would be responsible for the ex-
ecution of these elements of the project.
3.28      Based on surveys conducted by the mission in the San Rafael La
Laguna site, where about 3,800 sites would be occupied by the end of this
year, there appears to be sufficient business services required (i.e.,
building supplies for expansion of homes, textiles, food services) which
would provide economies and savings for homeowners.
3.29      Detailed analysis of the survey information confirms that the
following business opportunities could be promoted in the sites and services
areas_:
(a) a retail and service complex containing either stores or
stalls for dry groceries, fresh meats and produce, drugs
and medical and health supplies and services, food or
small eating places, specialty groceries, some family-
type apparel and shoes, and convenience and personal
services including laundries, beauty and barber shops,
etc.;
(b) a community-owned and operated procurement, maintenance
and management business organization to warehouse and
supply building materials for home expansion and improve-
ment and to maintain and manage private and public areas
to achieve economies for individual homeowners in the
procurement of wanted items such as cement blocks,
doors, windows, hardware, and appliances;
(c) repair shops for vehicles, plumbing, electrical and other
maintenance needs of homeowners; and
(d) light manufacturing and assembly plants in clean, low-skill
operations in the sites and services area with 10-50 employees
in each enterprise to assemble electric and other components,
and manufacture construction-related doors, windows, hardware,
etc.



- 15 -
3.30      Building Materials Manufacturers' Loan Program:  Under its present
loan portfolio BANVI extends financial assistance to the building materials
industry. In 1976 it proposes to extend at least Q 2.0 million for loans
up to five years at an interest rate of 9.75%. BANVI utilizes its Credit
Section to promote business opportunities. The objective of this element
of the project is to assist small-and medium-producers of building materials
to meet the requirements of the housing sector and to generate employment
opportunities for a large segment of semi-skilled workers.
3.31      BANVI has streamlined its procedures to cope with the demand for
funds from building materials manufacturers. About 60 prospective borrowers
have expressed definitive interest although the potential exists for a demand
from 150 small entrepreneurs. Proposed loans could vary from Q 5,000 to
Q 15,000 and would carry an interest of 9.75% for a term of 5 years. Most
subloans would be for capacity expansion and primarily for fixed assets
including buildings and workshops. Under BANVI guidelines, entrepreneurs can
obtain up to 70% of the value of the loan on "signature," 90% with a mortgage,
and 100% based on chattel mortgage. The Project Unit would work closely with
the Credit Section in BANVI in the economic evaluation of proposed subloans
and particular emphasis would be given to proposals that directly enhance the
project sites.
Technical Assistance
3.32      Consulting services would be required for operational, planning
and management assistance during the implementation of the project. Con-
sultants to the Project Unit would assist both the Vice President for
Reconstruction and Project Administrator with project implementation,
engineering and technical supervision, promotion of small business oppor-
tunities, training, and project monitoring and evaluation. It is estimated
that four advisers would be needed for a total of 108 man-months. Advisory
assistance would be provided, generally, in the fields of engineering,
architecture, urban planning, business development and community organiza-
tion and training. Specific terms of reference for each specialist-adviser
are shown in Appendix 4. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
consultants under the above technical assistance would be employed on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1976.
3.33      To assist the Project Unit in its operations outside Guatemala City
and because of the location of sites, a few vehicles will be provided. Like-
wise, some equipment (e.g., audio-visual, communications, machinery for con-
struction purposes, etc.) will also be provided.



- 16 -
IV. EXECUTING AGENCY
A. Implementation Responsibilities
4.01      The Borrower will be the Government of Guatemala.  On March 18, 1975
the Government established a National Reconstruction Committee (NRC) which
would coordinate projects and activities that form part of a general recon-
struction program. The National Reconstruction Committee is headed by General
Ricardo Peralta Mendez, who was appointed by the President and who has a
reputation for honesty and for being a solid administrator. He is assisted by
senior staff with many years of experience in both public and private enter-
prises and all appear to be of a high caliber. NRC is an executive agency
which can take decisions and would provide the necessary coordination among
governments and private agencies. Both the Banco de Guatemala (BG) and the
Secretariat of the Consejo Nacional de Planificacion Economica (Planning
Council) would assist NRC in an advisory capacity. The Government also
established a trust fund initially with US$28.0 million which would be admini-
stered by BG. With respect to the activities for housing reconstruction, the
Banco de Guatemala and BANVI have entered into an agreement in which BANVI
will execute projects utilizing funds from the trust fund.
4.02      BANVI will be the executing agency for the project.  As mentioned
in para 2.11, the Government has designated BANVI as the agency in charge
of housing reconstruction for the capital city and urban centers which are
capitals of Departments (provinces). BANVI is the only major housing and
urban development institution in Guatemala with experience in large scale
housing development of the magnitude envisaged in the reconstruction program.
However, as a young institution (established in late 1973) and having inheri-
ted the assets and problems of Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda (INVI)
it is undergoing adjustments in its overall program and operations. Nowhere
have difficulties in the process of adjustment been more pronounced than in
its organizational and financial operations. Although the Bank loan will be
made to the Government, the association of BANVI in the implementation of the
project will substantially aid in its institutional development. One of the
important steps needed in carrying out the project is the establishment of an
office for a Vice President for Reconstruction who will direct the operations
of a Project Unit (para. 4.16), also to be established to insure due diligence
and efficiency in project implementation. The appointment of a Vice President
for Reconstruction whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to
the Bank and the creation and staffing of the Project Unit satisfactory to
the Bank are conditions for loan disbursement. At the same time, BANVI has
agreed to carry out a management study primarily to clarify the functions
to be executed in response to the reconstruction efforts as well as provide
the necessary direction for carrying out its normal functions in the housing
field. With these arrangements plus a number of conditions designed to
strengthen BANVI's financial operations and with assistance of consultants
financed under the project, BANVI will have the technical and administra-
tive capacity to execute the project efficiently.



- 17 -
B. Banco Nacional de la Vivienda (BANVI)
Function
4.03      The Banco Nacional de la Vivienda (BANVI) is a state-owned and
a semi-autonomous agency of the Government of Guatemala which commenced
operations in July 1973. At that time BANVI took over the assets, liabilities
and staff of INVI, which was a government controlled housing agency created in
1956 (Appendix 5).
4.04      BANVI was given broader functions than INVI and now has the
following areas of operations:
(a) accept checking and savings deposits and provide other
banking services;
(b) carry out housing construction and infrastructure projects,
either directly or through private contractors;
(c) promote and carry out urban renewal projects;
(d) provide loans to individuals for both BANVI projects and
houses to be built by individual owners;
(e) promote and participate in the organization and expansion
of companies involved in the housing industry; and
(f) raise funds, with government approval, from external loans
and from other banks and financial institutions.
Share Capital and Ownership
4.05      The Government of Guatemala is the sole owner of BANVI and when
BANVI was created it absorbed all of the Government's capital in INVI. The
law creating BANVI also authorized a Q 6 million increase in BANVI's capital
over a six-year period. To date Q 2 million has been paid in by the Govern-
ment.
Management
4.06      BANVI is governed by a five-member Board of Directors consisting
of the Ministery of Economy (Chairman of the Board), the Minister of
Finance, the President of Instituto de Fomento de Hipotecas Aseguradas
(FHA), a representative of the National Association of contractors and the
President of BANVI. There are also provisions for Alternate Directors to
attend board meetings in place of the regular members. BANVI's Vice
Presidents also attend board meetings as non-voting members. The Board
makes the policy decisions for BANVI on the recommendations of BANVI's
President.



- 18 -
4.07      The President of BANVI, Lic. Oscar Mauricio Gonzalez, is appointed
by the President of Guatemala and is reponsible for the operations of BANVI.
Organization
4.08      The President has created a five-man technical committee to assist
him in studying and planning policies and assisting in legal and other
requirements. Also attached to the President is a Credit and Trust Committee
which sets pricing policy for housing developments and approves loans from
Q 10,000 to Q 75,000. Loans over Q 75,000 require approval of the Board
of Directors.
4.09      Under the President are three Vice Presidents who are delegated
authority in the areas of Banking, Housing Production and Administration
(Chart WB 16022). The President and the three Vice Presidents have adequate
experience in banking and housing and appear to possess the skills and capa-
city to execute programs.
4.10      BANVI presently has 502 employees, which is an increase of 149,
or 42% since June 1974. They are organized into the following areas:
No. of Employees
President's Staff                             5
Internal Auditor                             16
Banking                                     132
Administration                              274
Production                                   75
Total               502
4.11      The largest increases were in the Administration and Production
divisions which increased by 86 and 39 employees respectively. These in-
creases do not appear justified in terms of the pre-earthquake level of
operations of BANVI. However, it appears that the tasks assigned to BANVI
have changed the scope and nature of the staffing requirement of the insti-
tution.
4.12      The mission left with BANVI a request that a management study be
initiated to increase its efficiency and effectiveness in carrying out a
program for reconstruction and lay the foundation for its future work in
urban development. The management study should, inter-alia:
(a)  define specific programs, tasks and personnel required
to undertake the reconstruction program;
(b) provide policy guidelines and obtain approval for a plan
of action to evaluate the impact of reconstruction efforts
on BANVI's normal functioning;



- 19 -
(c) insure the mechanics necessary for adequate coordination;
and
(d) streamline and review BANVI's organization with a view
to improving its accounting, cost determination and
reporting, collections and economic and financial planning.
The terms of reference of the study was reviewed during negotiations. Agree-
ment was reached that BANVI would review with the Bank the recommendations of
the study prior to the implementation of such recommendations. Agreements were
also reached during negotiations that this study will be substantially com-
pleted as a condition of disbursement.
Banking Operations
4.13      BANVI has its main office and two branch offices in Guatemala City
and one branch office in Quetzaltenango. Apart from its banking operations
this department is responsible for the implementation of credit policies
and collections. It coordinates closely with other sections within BANVI
responsible for dealing directly with borrowers (e.g., Community and Home
Extension Workers who provide assistance to loan beneficiaries to insure
that they make their mortgage payments promptly and also assist families
with employment opportunities). laNVI's ba-nking operath-ons showed a
large increase in 1975 with deposits providing a large portion of the addi-
tional funding for projects and loans.
4.14      Besides having mortgages, BANVI had commercial loans outstanding
on December 31, 1975 of Q 0.5 million. BANVI is expected to expand this
portion of its business by another Q 2.0 million in 1976. The Credit Analy-
sis and Collection sections under the Banking Department are responsible
for providing support services to housing projects and in the promotion
of business opportunities for the manufacture of building materials. Both
these sections would play important roles in the implementation and effi-
cient execution of the project especially as they provide needed assistance
to the Project Unit. Likewise, under the Administration Department, the
Development section is responsible for the processing of applications and
and interviewing prospective applicants (para 4.23).
Production Department
4.15      The Production Department of BANVI is responsible for defining and
implementing housing programs. It presently supervises more than 6,000 hous-
ing units all at various stages of construction. This department sets design
standards, reviews cost estimates, reviews bids, awards contracts and monitors
costs. BANVI contracts out to the private sector most of the production of
project designs and construction drawings, actual on-site construction and
supervision of works.



- 20 -
Project Unit
4.16      To carry out BANVI's reconstruction program and insure efficient
implementation of the Bank-financed project, BANVI would establish a Project
Unit reporting directly to a Vice President for Reconstruction, a position
which the President has agreed to create.   The Vice President for Reconstruc-
tion would also be responsible for liaising with relevant agencies involved
in the reconstruction programs as well as coordinate with other sections
within BANVI for logistical support. The specific scope of work of the
Project Unit is now being detailed. Its duties are expected to include
implementation of the project from the preliminary engineering stage through
construction and supervision. One important function of the Project Unit
will be the organization of the communities to be served, provide training,
initiate self-help and mutual aid works and promote opportunities for small
business enterprises. It is contemplated that a large number of the posi-
tions in the Project Unit would be filled by personnel already employed by
BANVI and that additional staff, as needed and support services (e.g.,
accounting, land acquisition, credit check on applicants, etc.) would be
made available from other departments in BANVI.
4.17      Under the proposed organization the Project Unit would consist of:
(a) one Project Administrator;
(b) one Senior Engineer for project supervision and control
and liaison with the consultants;
(c) one Architect/Planner to review materials loans needs,
review design, etc.;
(d) one Accountant/Financial Analyst to be directly responsible
for project accounting and maintain liaison with the Account-
ing Department;
(e) one Business Promotion Specialist to promote the organization
and development of small-scale (artesian) businesses;
(f) one construction Manufacturing Specialist to organize and train
settlers in appropriate techniques of construction;
(g) one Senior Social Worker to develop basic criteria for selection
of settlers, to conduct interviews, and to set up self-help and
mutual aid groups;
(h) one Community Development Worker to organize work groups and
train groups for cooperative efforts;



- 21 -
(i) one field Engineer resident for each project site for super-
vision; and
(j) one Architect/Contractor to prepare expansion plans and work
with the Unit to define various techniques and materials for
expansion of site facilities and structures.
The Project Unit will also be assisted by technical assistance consultants
as described in para 3.32 and Appendix 4.
Lending Operations
4.18      BANVI makes loans for housing and as a commercial bank, to indi-
viduals and to suppliers and contractors in the housing industry. The main
area for BANVI's lending is housing, however, as the following table giving
balances outstanding at December 31, 1975 shows:
Amount in Millions
Number              of Q
Housing project loans       14,580              22.00
Individual mortgage loans      289               2.48
Other loans                    478               0.78
Total              15,347              25.97
4.19      Loans made by BANVI for housing are usually for a 20-year term with
a 10% down payment required. Interest rates are currently 11% but on occasion
reduced by the President and Credit and Trust Committee of BANVI to 8% or 10%
for low-income projects. BANVI also adds .9% to the interest rate for a 20-
year mortgage (and less for a shorter mortgage) as mortgage insurance.
4.20      Commercial and other loans are usually short term, currently carry
an interest rate of 9.75%.
4.21      One of the weakest areas of BANVI's operations, inherited from INVI,
is loan collections. Timely and regular reports are not produced regarding
amounts in arrears, with the last report available being of December
31, 1974. Of BANVI's 14,024 housing loans outstanding on that date, 6,570
were in some degree of arrears and that 5,015 or 36% were more than 3 months
behind in payments. The total amount in arrears was Q 891,328 or 4% of the
loans outstanding. Although the arrears situation is acceptable, the mission
has expressed its concern to BANVI's management and measures to reduce arrears
as well as better operational control will be undertaken in the course of
project implementation. All loans are protected by BANVI's right to reposses a
house in case of default.



- 22 -
During negotiations, agreements were reached that BANVI would strengthen
its collection procedures so that the number of accounts more than three
months in arrears would be no more than 25% by December 31, 1977.
4.22      BANVI has three different loan categories for its housing projects:
Family Income Requirements
Per Month
Low-income                       Q   60-150
Middle-income                    Q  150-300
High income                      Q  300 +
4.23      To qualify for low-income housing, a prospective borrower must
first fill in an application form and open a savings account with BANVI, to
be used for legal expenses related to acquiring the house and saving for
the down payment. Following this the applicant then has an interview with
a social worker from either BANVI's staff or a firm retained by BANVI. The
social worker determines the ability to pay, verifies the family income
reported, reviews present living quarters and does a credit check. If the
applicant is accepted, his name is added to a waiting list which at the
present time contains 4,000 processed applications. When an applicant does
finally reach the top of the list, he is allocated a house within a project
by means of a raffle. To meet the earthquake needs and to select people
for the various programs in this project, the credit department of BANVI
must be strenghtened and its procedures streamlined.
Accounts and Audits
4.24      BANVI charges the cost of its Production Department plus one-third
of some administration costs to its housing projects. The allocation of these
charges appears arbitrary and BANVI does not have a formal cost monitoring
and budget reporting system. Their overhead charge of 20% seems to be high
in light of the fact that the Production Department contracts out a lot of
its work. Much tighter control of these costs is required.
4.25      BANVI has an Internal Audit Department reporting to the President
which is required to verify all accounting transactions and financial state-
ments produced by the Accounting Department. BANVI also utilizes external
auditors who report on the financial statements and other information re-
quired under previous IDB loans. The 1974 auditors included comments and
recommendations on BANVI's accounting system and organization and the 1975
auditors are also planning to make comments, although their report was not
ready at the time of the mission. During negotiations, agreements were
reached that a separate account would be maintained by BANVI and quarterly
project cost statements would be submitted to the Bank. Agreements were also
reached that annual audited financial statements for BANVI plus an audited
project cost statement and such other information as the Bank may require
would be available to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
BANVI's fiscal year.



- 23 -
Insurance
4.26      BANVI requires the owners of houses on which it holds the mortgage
to carry insurance against fire, lightning, earthquake and volcanic eruptions.
Financial Position
4.27      When BANVI took over the operations of INVI in July 1973 there were
questions regarding both the existence and valuation of the assets and liabi-
lities of INVI. The Government appointed a special committee to resolve
these problems and its work is to be completed by December 31, 1976. The major
item outstanding according to BANVI, is the documentation of present book
value of fixed assets which had an original cost of Q 5 million.
4.28      As of December 31, 1975 BANVI had total assets of Q 43.0 million
which is an increase of Q 7.7 million or 22% over the previous year.
Balance
Dec. 31, 1974       Dec. 31, 1975    Increase
---------------- Q thousands ---------------
Cash and Investment             2,793    8%         4,825      11%     2,032
Loans                          21,787   62%        25,977      61%     4,190
Housing Projects in
Progress                      9,477   27%        9,757      23%        280
Other                           1,258    3%         2,414       5%     1,156
Total         35,315  100%       42,973    100%       7,658
4.29      The large cash and short-term investment balances show a high
liquidity position for BANVI against its deposits of Q 8.3 million. BANVI
is required to keep 40% of its current account and 10% of its savings account
balances on reserve at the Central Bank, which the December 31, 1975 cash
balances greatly exceeded.
4.30      BANVI has 23% of its assets in housing projects under construction.
As of December 31, 1975 this was the situation:



- 24 -
Q thousands
Planning, urbanization and housing in progress                 3,153
Houses repossessed                                                 92
Urbanization completed                                            769
Military housing completed                                        622
616 houses completed and not sold                              1,939
252 apartments to be sold                                      1,099
Land                                                           2,009
Sundry                                                             74
Total                 9,757
4.31      BANVI derives its funds to finance its growth in assets from four
sources: deposits, long-term debt, provision and capital. The following
table shows the relationship of these sources:
Balance
Dec. 31, 1974      Dec. 31, 1975    Increase
Q--------------- Q thousands --------------
Deposits                         2,962    8%    8,272    19%          5,310
Long-term debt                  8,816   25%    8,412    20%            (404)
Provisions                       1,437    4%    2,137       5%          700
Paid-in Capital                22,202   63%   23,358    54%           1,156
Other                             (102)  --        794      2%          896
Total         35,315  100%   42,973   100%           7,658
4.32      Deposits increased by Q 5.3 million last year providing 70% of the
funds used by BANVI.  No interest is paid on checking accounts while 8% is
paid on savings accounts.
4.33      The long-term debt represents two loans from IDB.  Terms and con-
ditions were:



- 25 -
(a) Loan 39-TF/GU-amount Q 5.3 million; interest and commission
2.0%; amortization in 54 semi-annual installments commencing
July 3, 1964; and
(b)  Loan 219-SF/GU-amount Q 4.6 million; interest and commission
3.0% amortization in 51 semi-annual installments commencing
April 23, 1974.
4.34      An employees' indemnity fund and life insurance fee charged monthly
by BANVI to its mortgage loan holders amounted to Q 2.1 million. BANVI pro-
vides this insurance itself through this provision.
4.35      Paid-in capital of Q 23.4 million represents 54% of the present funding
for BANVI's operations. This comes about from large amounts of past Govern-
ment financing for INVI. It will continue to provide an important source of
funding for new projects in the future as repayments are made of existing
mortgage loans.
4.36      The large amount of paid-in capital, the low interest rates on the IDB
loans, no interest on checking deposits, and 8% interest on savings accounts
combine to give BANVI a present cost of capital of 1.2% which is very low.
Financial Results
4.37      Between 1974 and 1975 BANVI's revenue increased by 30% from Q 1.6
million to Q 2.1 million as against expenditures of Q 2.0 million to Q 2.4
million respectively (Appendix 5, Table 1). Operating expenses were high and
BANVI showed a net loss for the year of Q 300,000. However, the return on
average total assets was 5.4% and which gives BANVI a gross spread of 4.2% on
average total assets. Clearly, since BANVI reports income on cash basis and
interest receivable increased by Q 300,000 in 1975 a greater effort in collec-
tion would have eliminated the loss.
Financial Projections
4.38      BANVI's forecasts show that net assets will increase by Q 61.8
million from Q 43 million in 1975 to Q 104.8 million in 1982 (Appendix 5,
Table 1). The increase results from reconstruction loans made by BANVI,
and from BANVI's regular loans which will increase by Q 25.8 million from
Q 26.0 million in 1975 to Q 51.8 million in 1982. The increase in net
assets is financed from three main sources: deposits, funds provided by
the Bank of Guatemala for the project and capital. BANVI's deposit:debt:
equity ratio which was 21/22/57 in 1975 is forecast to be 27/42/31 in 1982.
4.39      Deposits are forecast to triple from Q 8.3 million to Q 26.1 million
and would provide about 70% of the funds required for the increase in BANVI's
normal loan program. Loans under the project would have a balance of Q 36.2
million at the end of 1982. Government capital would increase by Q 8.6
million to Q 32.0 million in 1982 and includes Q 4 million at a present
Government commitment to provide BANVI with 0 1 million per year in capital
until 1979. The continuation of this arrangement was confirmed during
negotiations.



- 26 -
4.40      The forecast cash flow (Appendix 5, Table 2) shows BANVI's regular
lending program decreasing during the period for reconstruction project
from Q 4.2 million in 1975 to Q 2.2 million in 1979 and then increasing to Q
5.5 million in 1982.
4.41      BANVI's operating losses are expected to decline and by 1980 it
will start showing a profit (Appendix 5, Table 3). These gradual changes are
the result of loans for reconstruction, greater staff efficiency as well as
higher interest rates in BANVI's commercial operations. Additionally, admini-
stration costs for the reconstruction program have been assumed to be covered
by the Government grants during the implementation phase of the project.
Thus, BANVI's operating ratio is projected to decline from 113% in 1975 to 96%
in 1982.
Operating and Financial Targets
4.42      The management study that BANVI has been requested to carry out
should establish performancce targets for BANVI commencing with the 1977
fiscal year (para 4.02). The targets should cover such items as relating the
number of employees in various areas of BANVI's organization to the number of
houses constructed and to the number of loans made, and controlling adminis-
tration costs as related to average total assets.
4.43      The President of BANVI sees the institution's role in the future
as that of a "secondary lender" dealing primarily with savings and loan
associations, housing coopertives, mutuals and other organized groups.
This reorientation of BANVI's functions would require a broadening of its
financial base and greater involvement, albeit indirectly, in urban devel-
opment works.



- 27 -
V. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
5.01         Cost estimates  are detailed  in Appendix 2 and summarized  in the
following table:
In Millions of Quetzales
Project Components                         Local     Foreign      Total        Exchange
A. Sites end Services in  uluatemala City
1.  off-site infrastructure                1.054    o.496        1.550           32
2.  community facilities                   0.365      0.135       0.500           27
3.  on-site infrastructure                 2.536     1.194        3.730           32
4.  core unit construction                 5.596     2.633        8.230           32
5. land                                    2.500       --         2.500           00
6. materials loans                         3.200     0.800        L.000           20
Subtotal      15.251      5.258       20.510           26
B. Credit Program for 10
Urb-an Centers
Subtotal       4.000      1.000        5.000           20
C. Small Business Loans
1.  land                                   0.150        --        0.150           00
2.  cormmercial sites                      0.562      0.208       0.770           27
in projects
3. loans for building                      2.774      1.306       4.080           32
materials producers
Subtotal       3.486      1.51T        5.000           30
D. Technical Assistance
and Equipment
Subtotal       0.165      0.935        1.100           85
TOTAL         22.902      B.707      31.610            27
E. Contingfenies
1.  Physical                               1.517      0.700       2.217           32
2.  Price 1/                               5.002     3.468        8.517           40
Subtot.al      6.519      4.168       10.6B7           38
TOT.L PROJECT COST                   29.L21    12.875        L2.297           30
TOT.AL COST ',ET CF LMtD              27.0).1    ?.922       39.616           32
1/   rice colltingoncices compounad. annmtaly oni u-s  cost- pl 2I s  cil contdn-encip:s ax
fell.oxW:        1976                 1977                 1978-79
oeal.    15.'. p.n.            1 t5  p.a.             12 ` p.a.
Foreign   15 p.aP.             1:32 p.a.              12% p.a.



- 28 -
5.02      Cost estimates are shown net of land and with land (which will not
be financed by the Bank) based on preliminary designs prepared for the Stage I
project in San Rafael La Laguna and on similar BANVI sites and services de-
signs. The direct and indirect foreign exchange costs will be equivalent to
about US$12.9 million (30%). Costs are computed on May 1976 prices for labor
and materials plus 15% physical contingencies. Physical and price contin-
gencies together comprise about 25% of total project cost. These estimates
are considered realistic and appropriate.
Monthly Charges and Affordability
5.03      Based on estimated unit costs for the sites and services component
total loan obligation and monthly charges are as follows:
Loan Obligation                   Level I         Level II       Level III
Land                              187.15          187.15          187.15
Urbanization                      395.00          395.00          395.00
Core construction                 115.00          594.38        1,248.80
Installation charges,
meters, etc.                    255.00          255.00          255.00
Total Loan                   952.15        1,431.53        2,085.95
Monthly Charges
mortgage payment                    6.19            9.30            13.56
monthly payment on
materials loans (Q 400-)          2.60            2.60             2.60
water and sewerage                  1.48             1.48            1.48
electricity                         4.03            4.03            4.03
Total Monthly Charge          14.30           17.41           21.67
(with materials credit
of Q 400-)
5.04      The average monthly costs to households for the three service level
options would be Q 11.70, Q 14.80 and Q 19.07 respectively, net of a building
materials loan. With the Q 400--materials loan, the average monthly costs
would be Q 14.30, Q 17.41 and Q 21.67 per service level.
5.05      Based on the assumption that 20% of household income is alloted to
shelter, the lowest decile would have a potential capacity to pay Q 14.70 per
month. Service Level TII (basic core dwelling unit) plus a Q 400 construction



- 29 -
materials credit will be affordable (Q 21.67) to the lowest 2nd decile of
metropolitan Guatemala's population.
Cost Recovery and Pricing
5.06      Based on para 5.01, the total development costs for the sites and
services component is Q 29.35 million (i.e., Q 20.5 million as base cost plus
contingencies amounting to Q 8.85 million). The beneficiaries would be
charged for these costs plus installation, power, and other surcharges amount-
ing to Q 3.95 million.
5.07      Pricing of sites for sale and housing units are normally determined
by BANVI as sections of project sites are completed. During negotiations
agreements were obtained that BANVI would set the selling price of lots and
housing units to insure satisfactory recovery of costs which would include,
inter alia, the cost of land, site development, on-site infrastructure,
community facilities materials loans, core housing (where appropriate),
and a proportionate share of off-site infrastructure plus requisite admin-
istrative and capital surcharge for infrastructure.
B. Financing Arrangements
5.08      The Bank loan will be made to the Government of Guatemala.  The
loan of US$20.0 million represents 47% of total project costs. The Government
will contribute US$22.3 million or 53% of total project costs. The Bank loan
will be on standard Third Window (TW) terms. There will be a project agree-
ment between the Bank and BANVI. The Government will bear the foreign
exchange risk.
5.09      The Government will on-lend Bank funds to BANVI on the same terms
and conditions as the Bank loan. The Government's contribution (US$22.3
million equivalent) for the project will be made available to BANVI in the
form of a trust (called FEDEICOMISO) at no interest. Moreover, the Government
through the Bank of Guatemala (Central Bank) will provide grants to BANVI to
cover its administration costs related to the project. With these agreements,
BANVI's cost of loanable funds will be about 2.35%.
5.10      BANVI's loans to individuals for sites and services, materials
loans, and credits will be for 20 years including 2 years of grace at 4%
interest. As this loan is exclusively for reconstruction and no further loans
of this type are envisaged and because the preponderance of beneficiaries are
low-income families the proposed interest rate appears acceptable.
5.11      As loans are repaid to BANVI the funds will be accounted for as
follows:
(a)  the amount necessary to pay the principal and interest on
the Bank loan will be repaid to the Bank of Guatemala;



- 30 -
(b) the balance will be retained by BANVI as a capital
contribution by the Government.
5.12      These financing arrangements were agreed upon with the Govern-
ment and BANVI during negotiations.
C. Procurement
5.13      BANVI, through the Project Unit, would act as the primary procure-
ment agent. It will invite, evaluate bids and award contracts in accordance
with Bank guidelines for Procurement dated August 1975.
5.14      Contracts for civil works would be awarded to prequalified bidders
on the basis of international competitive bidding. Since most of the civil
works are relatively small, foreign contractors are not expected to parti-
cipate; but they would not be precluded from bidding. Works would be grouped
to the extent possible to encourage competitive bidding. Procurement of
building materials and equipment for the ten urban centers and three sites
in Guatemala City would also be made on the basis of competitive bidding.
5.15      In accordance with the Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incen-
tives for Industrial Development, domestic and other C.A.C.M. member countries
manufacturers would receive a preferential margin of 15% at c.i.f. base costs
of imports or 50% of the applicable import duties, which ever is lower.
Building Industry
5.16      Since the satisfactory execution of the project depends to a large
extent on the availability of building materials, skilled manpower, and the
nature and scale of the contracting industry, the mission reviewed relevant
aspects of the building industry.
5.17      Architectural and Engineering Services:  Guatemala has over 1,000
engineers, architects and geologists who adequately meet the needs of the
building industry.
5.18      The "Architects and Engineers Association" has set rules for pro-
fessional fees which vary according to the work performed and the total
value of the project. Fees related to housing could vary from 5% to 12%
of the total cost of construction. The quality of design, working drawings
and supervision of construction is generally satisfactory.
5.19      Building Codes:  Guatemala has no effective Building Code and
enforcement comparable to that found in the U.S. Each design professional
is allowed to establish his own design criteria and supervise his own
construction without independent scrutiny on the basis that he is a
registered professional. This practice does not preclude good construc-
tion; neither does it place limitation on the extent of poor construction.



- 31 -
5.20      As Guatemala is on a seismic zone, for structural safety, the
building codes mostly used are American, European or Japanese; the San
Francisco (California) Building Code being the most widely used.
5.21      Government is anxious to carry out a study of construction
materials and prepare a building code suitable for Guatemala. Funds
for consulting services are included in the project which can be utilized
for these purposes.
5.22      Materials:  Guatemala produces cement, bricks, blocks, cement
tiles, asbestos roofing, asbestos and PVC piping, wooden components for
windows and doors, aluminum windows and ceramic tiles, etc. PVC piping,
aluminum windows and door frames, a variety of ceramic tiles, sanitary
fixtures, etc., are imported from the Central American Common Market
countries. Reinforcing steel, electric cables, pipes and hardware are
imported from the USA and Europe.
5.23      For the Government's reconstruction program to be successful it
would have to import considerable amount of building materials and equip-
ment until such time as the demand returns to normal levels.
5.24      Skilled Manpower:  Before the earthquake Guatemala had adequate
skilled manpower to carry out its construction requirements. Shortages in
manpower due to abnormal reconstruction would be met by recruiting suitably
experienced and skilled technicians from the neighboring countries and no
difficulty is anticipated.
5.25      Building Contractors:  There are approximately 80 building con-
tractors registered by BANVI and at least ten are considered large, well
financed and experienced enough to undertake any housing development required.
Most are members of the Guatemalan Association of Construction Contractors
and the National Association of Home Builders, which in 1975 reported a
construction capacity of about US$70 million. These firms normally build
for the public sector and BANVI through open competitive bidding. On occa-
sion they also act as developers-builders-owners taking full risk of their
housing ventures. On the whole, their performance has been adequate.
D. Disbursement
5.26      The Bank will disburse against:
(a) 50% of civil works by contractors;
(b) 50% of amounts disbursed under the credit program to
individual households in the sites and services projects;
(c) 50% of amounts disbursed under the credit program to
individual households in the ten selected urban centers;



- 32 -
(d) 50% of BANVI's disbursements for loans to building
materials manufacturers; and
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures or 85% of local expenditures
for consulting services and vehicles and equipment for
the Project Unit operations.
5.27      Disbursements will be fully documented.  BANVI will process all
documentation through the Bank of Guatemala which would set up a project
account and would monitor withdrawal applications received. The estimated
disbursement schedule is shown in Appendix 6. Documentation for disburse-
ments under the credit program will not be submitted to the Bank but retained
by BANVI for periodic review by Bank project supervision missions. Any
surplus arising from the completion at a lower than the estimated cost (includ-
ing contingencies) of the project would be used, with the prior approval of
the Bank, to provide additional "basic" sites and services plots. In order
to facilitate project implementation and insure a reasonable schedule of
construction, retroactive financing mainly for detailed engineering of pro-
posed works and consulting services of up to US$100,000 is recommended.
E. Supervision
5.28      In view of the complexity of the project and the urgency to carry
out specific elements of the sites and services project component it is pro-
posed to allocate 95 man-weeks for supervision during the three and one half
years of project implementation.
5.29      About 35 man-weeks will be needed during the first year specific-
ally to review progress in the establishment and operations of the Project
Unit, acquisition of land for project sites, detailed engineering of the
sites and services project component, and review other project components.
Likewise, the appointment of consultants, selection of households and
organization of self-help and mutual-aid works need careful monitoring.
VI. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The social benefits of a reconstruction program are not easily
susceptible to quantification, but they would certainly be greater than the
economic benefits. For most of those rendered homeless especially the squat-
ters on ravines or renters whose dwellings were demolished, the provision of
affordable and appropriate shelter is of high priority. For a majority of
the low-income people the loss of property and other valuable assets was ac-
companied by the destruction of social facilities and services normally used
by the people thereby exacerbating disparities in wealth and opportunities.
6.02      With the proposed sites and services program, the project will
contribute directly to the shelter reconstruction program. Of the total
estimated number of dwelling units (58,000) destroyed in the capital about



- 33 -
45,000 units housed the urban poor. The proposed project will thus cover
slightly better than 20% of this need over a three and a half year period.
For the ten urban centers outside of Guatemala City, based on the replace-
ment needs of about 11,000 units the project would meet about 70% of the
needs. Perhaps more importantly, the project serves as a prototype for
broader government action during and after the reconstruction period. The
project also includes a market-oriented element. Through rational self-help
and mutual-aid the project participants could increase their real incomes
through construction-related businesses and cooperative activities. Thus
project progress could lead ultimately to upgrading the participants' level
of living in both a qualitative and quantitative sense. This, in turn, could
offer guidelines for government sponsored action along similar lines that
will reach more poor families in more areas of the country than the modest
resources of this single Bank-financed project permits.
6.03      Income Generated:  Given the proposed investment of US$16.1 million
for direct construction, about US$6.44 million of labor income will be gene-
rated over a three and a half year period. In addition, the project will
create about 15,000 man-months of temporary construction jobs in this period.
A simultaneous investment of US$5.0 million in a small business program could
be expected to generate total investments of US$14 million. Based on
capital investment per job created of US$4,000-, the total number of jobs
which will be created could approach 3,500.
6.04      Even if a moderate fraction of these jobs goes to outsiders, the
generation of this number of jobs for a project comprising ten thousand
families will have an enormous beneficial impact, and will, in all prob-
ability, rapidly raise the average level of living to well above that of
the lowest income groups.
6.05      The contribution of other self-help and mutual-aid activities to
real income generation can, likewise, be significant.
6.06      Rate of Return:  The economic rate of return was estimated solely
for the sites and services component of the project which constitutes 64% of
total project investment.  As in previous Bank-financed sites and services
projects, the benefits are measured primarily on the basis of imputed rental
values which were obtained from BANVI.  Costs of the project included land
development, infrastructure, core units, other on-site costs, engineering,
materials loans, and the opportunity cost of land plus physical contingencies
of 15%. Wages for self-help were valued at 50% of the going rate. Based on
the calculations, the rate of return was about 16.0%.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.07      A sensitivity analysis was carried out to determine the impact on
the rate of return of variations in benefits and costs. The results are
as follows:



- 34 -
Assumption                     Rate of Return
15% increase in costs                        13.8%
25% increase in costs                        12.5%
15% increase in benefits                     18.7%
25% increase in benefits                     20.4%
Project Risks
6.08      Although BANVI's housing projects throughout the metropolitan area
escaped any serious damage--4 houses out of 4,000 required minor repairs--
the fact remains that the magnitude and occurrence of earthquakes are un-
predictable and their probable effects on the project are not measurable.
To reduce project risks, BANVI has incorporated in the project design more
stringent standards of construction, building materials, land preparation
and technical supervision (para 5.21).
6.09      Another type of risk inherent in the project is the extent to
which BANVI will be able to execute the project expeditiously and effi-
ciently. Delays in implementation caused either by delays in land acquisi-
tion or constraints in the construction industry could materially affect
project costs. Cost overruns could, in turn, affect the number in the
lowest decile who can effectively participate in the program. These
risks have been properly discussed and reasonable safeguards are being
included in the Project. BANVI is aware of the steps to be undertaken
and will strengthen the Project Unit as circumstances require. With
appropriate technical assistance, monitoring and close supervision from
Bank staff it is envisaged that the project can be successfully executed.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were obtained from the Government
and BANVI that:
(i)  land acquisition of about 50 ha for the San Rafael La Laguna
site would be acquired before June 30, 1976 and that the
Government would provide the Bank with a schedule and time-
table for the acquisition of land for the remaining sites
(para 3.08);
(ii)  agreements between BANVI and individual banks or credit insti-
tutions for carrying out the purposes of the credit program
for selected urban centers should be arranged to include assign-
ment of specific responsibilities with respect to the provision
of credit inspectors, supervision of the loan, percentage of
commission, and reporting systems (para 3.22);



- 35 -
(iii) appoint consultants whose qualifications and terms of employ-
ment would be on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank by December 31, 1976 (para 3.32);
(iv)  BANVI would strengthen its collection procedures so that the
number of accounts more than three months in arrears would
be no more than 25% by December 31, 1977 (para 4.21);
(v) a separate account would be maintained by BANVI and quarterly
project cost statements would be submitted to te Bank (para 4.25);
(vi)  annual audited financial statements for BANVI plus an audited
project cost statement and such other information as the Bank
may require would be available to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of BANVI's fiscal year (para 4.25);
(vii)  the Government will continue to make its capital contributions
to BANVI of Q 1.0 million per year until 1979 (para 4.39);
(viii) BANVI would set the selling price of lots and housing units
to insure satisfactory recovery of costs (para 5.07); and
(ix)  the Government will provide the funds for the project to BANVI
at the required terms and conditions (para 5.09).
7.02      As conditions for loan disbursement, BANVI would:
(i) appoint a suitably qualified Vice President for Reconstruction
(para 4.02);
(ii)  substantially complete the management study (para 4.12); and
(iii) establish a Project Unit with qualified and experienced
personnel (para 4.02).
7.03      As conditions of loan effectiveness, the Government and BANVI
would certify that:
(i) that the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of BANVI
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(ii)  that the execution of the Subsidiary Contract and the Fideicomiso
Contract on behalf of the Borrower, BANVI and Banco de Guatemala,
respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all neces-
sary corporate and governmental action;
(iii) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by BANVI's Junta Directiva, and is legally binding upon BANVI in
accordance with its terms; and



- 36 -
(iii)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by BANVI's Junta Directiva, and is legally binding upon BANVI in
accordance with its terms; and
(iv) that the Subsidiary Contract and the Fideicomiso Contract
have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, BANVI
and Banco de Guatemala, respectively, and are legally binding
upon the Borrower, BANVI and Banco de Guatemala, in accordance
with its terms.
7.04      Subject to the above agreements the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$20.00 million equivalent on standard Third Window terms.



APPENDIX 1
Page 1
GUATEMALA
APPRAISAL OF THE EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX: URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT COMPONENT
Site Selection and Location
1.        BANVI's--and previously INVI's--lowest-cost housing projects have
been developed in three peripheral areas of the city. The largest, Primero
de Julio--over 4,000 complete, US$3,000 units--was built four years ago in
the northwest sector of the city. A newly completed sites and services
scheme, Bethania Norte (500 units) is also located in this area. In the
southern section of the city, BANVI is constructing about 3,500 low-middle
cost units.
2.        BANVI's major sites and services program has been focussed on the
city's northeastern industrial and manufacturing area. Serviced by the highway
north to Puerto Barrios, the area has become a natural growth corridor. Three
sites and services projects have been completed here; a fourth is being con-
structed totalling over 3,800 lots (see Maps IBRD 12227, 12274).
3.        Site selection for the proposed sites and services program was based
on further development of these major growth poles within the city. The areas
are served with basic urban infrastructure and services or these can readily
be expanded to meet the demands of the projected new populations. BANVI has
investigated land availability in these areas and prepared a preliminary
feasibility study based on purchase offers. Sites were evaluated in these
areas for development of project sites in three stages.
Programming
4.        Preliminary discussions with BANVI officials indicate that a possible
staged-development of the identified sites can proceed as follows:
Units to be Built in 1976-1979
Stage I     Stage II      Stage III      Total
NE Sector            2,400        2,300           --           5,700
NW Sector              --           500         1,800          2,300
SW Sector              --           500         1,500          2,000
TOTAL     2,400        4,300         3,300         10,000



APPENDIX I
Page 2
Availability of Water for the Project Sites
5.        San Rafael de La Laguna area (NE sector) can be supplied by water
from the EMPAGUA water supply system. This will require an interconnection
with the trunk main and the installation of main lines.
6.        Bethania Norte (NW sector) will be supplied from three welis drilled
by BANVI. The wells have an estimated yield of 3,000 pajas (6,000 m /day)
adequate for approximately 9,000 lots. A 6" main from the well field, and
a groundstorage at Bethania are being built by BANVI. From the tank the
water will be fed into the distribution system
7.        Belo Horizonte (SW sector) will require the drilling of a well,
storage tank, and connection to the distribution network. The estimated depth
of the well is approximately 800 feet. Ampl  supplies of groundwater are
available, and wells producing 30 lps (300 m /day) have been constructed in
the area.
Sewerage, Surface Drainage and other Utilities
8.        The NE and NW sectors have natural drainage flows to the north.  The
lands identified for the sites and services projects are not planned to be
sewered for several years. Provisions for future link-ups to trunk mains
and treatment will be provided for in each project site.
9.        Storm drainage is available to each project site by direct discharge
into existing natural barrancos (ravines).
10.       Power and public lighting may be readily provided for each site.
Northeast Sector
11.       Sites have been selected for Stage I (1976-1977) of the program in
the northeast area--San Rafael La Laguna. The land identified for the first
2,400 units is immediately adjacent to the existing BANVI sites and services
projects and will be integrated into infrastructure and community facilities
already in place. Stage II (1977-1978) would be an extension of 1,000 units
to Stage I in addition to an area known as El Limo which has about 26 ha of
usable land where another 1,300 units are proposed. This is adjacent to the
San Rafael La Laguna project sites.
12.       Area:  Over 400 ha are available for development in this sector.
The lands identified as best suited for Stage I are three plots totalling 51
ha (see Appendix 2 and Map IBRD 12274). An additional 48 ha would be developed
in Stage II.



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
13.       Land Use:  The San Rafael La Laguna area has substantial development
of industrial/commercial as well as residential uses. Numerous industries
ranging from bus body manufacturing to food processing are located on the
highway north, only a 10 minute walk from the identified sites. In addition
to the almost 3,000 BANVI housing units, there are three large (1,000-1,500
families) marginal to low-income settlements in the area.
14.       Terrain:  The sites identified have gently sloping terrain up to
about 8%; all have steeper drainage slopes that will not be usuable for dwelling
construction but may be used for cultivation, manufacture, recreation, etc.
15.       Access:  The sites in Stage I have paved, double carriageway roads
directly to each. The Stage II sites have unpaved, but all-weather gravel
surfaced roads.
16.       Bus service is available to all areas.
17.       Employment Linkage:  The area has numerous industries and businesses
adjacent to the site. It is one of the most important industrial zones of
the city. The area is 15 minutes by bus (Q .05 per trip) to the city center.
Bethania Site--NW Sector
18.       The site is approximately 4 km northwest of the central area of the
city via the Anillo Periferico. Bethania lies in subsector 1-A of the Centro
Urbano Integredo (CEURI) development plan northwest of the city. The area's
proximity and accessibility to the city center (15 minute walk) by a new
peripheral highway and bridge make it particularly well suited to housing for
the sector that is dependent on services employment.
19.       Area:  The overall sector as identified by BANVI contains 342 ha
of which approximately 128 ha are usable. An existing low-income project (118
houses developed in 1963 by INCIV)--Colonia Bethania--and a recent BANVI sites
and services project planned for about 840 DU on 23 ha are located in the
southern portion. The middle portion is owned by the Antialcoholica Center
and used for athletic fields. The northern section is the identified subject
site, comprised of two large fincas, El Amparo and El Granizo, which total
nearly 200 ha. It is estimated that about 35-40%, or 75 ha, would be suitable
for economical project development, with the remainder in steep slopes.
20.       Land Use:  Lower-income housing already occupies the southern portion
of the Bethania. Recreation uses (eight soccer fields) are located in the middle
part. For purposes of site definition and flexibility in planning, the
existing athletic fields might be incorporated into the project area with a
redistribution of open space in the area's overall development plan.



APPENDIX 1
Page 4
21.       Land to the north and west of the site across major barrancos, is
now in agriculture use although it's use would be changed to medium density
residential under the proposed CEURI plan. To the south along the peripheral
highway BANVI has reserved sites of about 20 ha for middle-income apartments
(760 units). This land has been invaded by families left homeless by the
February earthquake. An estimated 1,300 families have installed themselves
in make-shift shelters. An additional 600 families have been housed in Red
Cross tents on the sports fields north of BANVI's sites and services project.
At the present time, almost 2,500 marginal income families are living in this
area. The reconstruction committee is studying a plan of action for the area.
22.       Terrain:  The proposed site area is flanked on the three sides by
steep barrancos (ravines) 100-150 meters deep. The usable portion is a ridge
of gently rolling land, with a drainage swale passing through in the middle.
The land drains primarily to the north. Vegetation in the site is concentrated
mostly on the western side where a few farm buildings remain, and in the
sharply sloping sides of the barrancos. There is a mature pine grove of about
2-3 ha on the southern edge of the identified site.
23.       Access:  Bethania has excellent access via the Anillo Periferico.  The
existing entrance ties into 13 Avenida, an ample boulevard which can be extended
and upgraded for access to the proposed project site. Once paved this divided
street could adequately serve the existing BANVI project and new development
in Fincas Amparo and Graniza. Internally the site would be served by a spine
or loop road configuration as suggested in the CEURI plan.
24.       Bus service is now available to Bethania and would easily be extended
into the subject site.
25.       Employment Linkage:  Due to its proximity to downtown and employment
centers around the Aniullo Periferico, the site would have exceptionally con-
venient access to jobs, within 20-30 minutes travel time for most workers.
Considerable employment would be generated within the community related to
commercial, institutional, maintenance functions and small industry.
Southwest Sector
26.       Location:  The site is located approximately 8 km southwest of the
city center, and only 3-4 km from the Unviersity of San Carlos, the airport
and the new ring road route. The site area lies in Zones 12, 13 and 22 be-
tween three radial highways (Calzada Aguila Batres, Avenida Petapa, and
Avenida Las Americas) and along the principal railroad line to the south.
27.       Area:  The general sector identified by BANVI contains approximately
1,300 ha of which 400 ha is already developed, including 300 ha in lower-income
housing, principally the Colonia Ciudad Real to the north along Av. Petapa,
and Los Guajitos to the East. Within this sector, 5 site areas have been
identified by BANVI including parcels totalling 147 ha for possible acquisition.



APPENDIX 1
Page 5
28.       Land Use: Over half the land in the sector remains vacant or in
agricultural use with some grazing in lowlands to the south. Other than the
existing colonias of marginal housing, there are two major BANVI projects:
Justo Rufino Barrios to the east, containing over 2,000 units for moderate-
income families, and Belo Horizonte, a complex of 1,700 2-story apartment
type units, now under construction. There is considerable industry along
Avenida Petapa south of the University, and Calzada Batres is a major com-
mercial/industrial corridor southwest toward Villa Nueva, a town of 45,000
population about 3-4 km south of the area.
29.       Proposed land use for the subject sites is residential recommended
for "immediate expansion" in the 1972-2000 General Plan (EDOM).
30.       Terrain:  The site area defined by BANVI contain fingers of flat
land and intervening ravines (barrancos) particularly between the two radial
roads. Land to the east between Belo Horizonte and Justo Rufino Barrios
is less segmented but has considerable slope (approximately 10-15%). Some
vegetation is found in the lowlands to the south and the barrancos that
penetrate the site. Good drainage can be assumed through the Villalobos
river basin to the south. Petapa avenue fords the meandering river bed
without a bridge. During the dry season there is no surface flow. A broad
floodplain flanks the river south of the subject site.
31.       The topography drops 60-80 meters through the site area.  Along the
west side there is a steep bluff over the highway with access farther up
through Castanas.
32.       Access:  The site area is well served by the two radial roads to
downtown. Paving for Avenida Petapa should be extended at least 2-3 km.
Cross routes through the site area are segmented due to major barrancos
east of Justo Rufino Barrios and between Avda. Petapa and Route CA-9 on the
west. Access from Petapa avenue to the western parcels will be difficult
and costly due to the deep ravines, but lands adjacent to Belo Horizonte are
easily accessible.
33.       Bus transportation is existent in the area serving Ciudad Real
and Justo Rufino Barrios and may be upgraded as required.
34.       Employment Linkage:  Route CA-9 has been a major commercial
corridor with numerous industries. Petapa avenue is also becoming an in-
dustrial corridor. New manufacturing plants, chemical and textile firms
are locating on spacious sites, some served by rail. Also building materials
firms have located near the Belo Horizonte site. The university campus with
26,000 students enrolled, would provide employment opportunities for many
area residents.



APPENDIX 2
Page 1
GUATEMALA
APPRAISAL OF THE EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX: URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT COMPONENT
Detailed Costs and Relevant Information for
Sites and Services Component
Land Costs
1.        Land values in the areas identified for the development of the sites
and services projects in metropolitan Guatemala City range from Q 9.50 to Q 2.00
per m . Average costs for all lands investigat2d was Q 1.17 per m gross. Net
usable land costs are estimated at Q 1.90 per m , with the assumption th2t 60%
of usable land will be for residential plots. 2Land for the average 81 m plot
plus 40% of public land charged to each (130 m total per plot) will cost about
Q 250.
Serviced Lot and Core Options
2.        A range of unit options will be available to the project beneficiaries.
Three service level options are provided: I, the plot with water and sanitary
drainage hook-ups; II, the plot with a sanitary core containing a toilet/shower
compaytment, a traditional laundry/kitchen sink (pila), enclosed and roofed--
5.6 m of construction--with water and electric meters and installations; III,
the plot with a basi5 core dwelling consisting of a partially enclosed multi-
purpose area--26.8 m --that is to be completed--i.e., addition of doors, windows,
finishes, etc.,--or expanded by self-help (see Chart WB 16128).
3.        The proposed service level mix is: I--10%; II--40%.
4.        Each service level option is provided with construction materials/
component loans that will enable the owner to build the basic dwelling or
expand the service level optio~. Estimated finished const5uction costs for
additional rooms is Q 40-per m inclusive of labor. A 9 m bedroom extention
would cost less than Q 400.
5.        Contractor built cores will be of machine-made hollow brick walls
with structural steel reinforcing, asbestos-cement, self-supporting roofing;
soil-cement and tile flooring; reinforced concrete foundations; and concrete
laundry fixtures.



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
6.        Each project layout will also have lot size options (see Chart
WB 16127). These are as follows:
Approximate Cost                                           Approx.
of Land Per Lot      Frontage        Depth        Area     X__    Location/Use
2
Q 185           5.40 m         14.00 m    75.6 m2      (18)    Residential
Q 200           5.40 m         15.00 m    81.0 m2      (70)    residential
Q 230           6.30 m         15.00 m    94.0 mi      (10)    commercial/
residential or
extended
households
Q 320           8.70 m         15.00 m   130.0 m        ( 2)    commercial/
residential in
prime location
The larger lot options are to better accommodate extended households--over
ten persons in some cases--and small commerce/trades--convenience groceries,
sewing/tailoring, repair services, etc.,--that require larger, more flexible
and better located sites.
Seismic Construction
7.        All suprastructure contractor-built will be designed and constructed
to earthquake resistant standards. Construction under the self-help/construc-
tion materials program will be under the recommendations of the technical
assistance team advice and demonstrations (through actual building of models)
of sound construction practices, using appropriate materials, which will be
a major part of the materials credit program.
8.        The Project Unit will generate and distribute recommendations for
appropriate self-help constructin practices for the project participants.
Construction Materials Credit Program
9.        Credits of an average of Q 400 will be available to each plot owner.
Construction materials and components will be made available to the partici-
pant 1-2 months prior to lot occupancy so as to permit accelerated construc-
tion or completion of the dwelling. Most self-help construction will be
week-end work; the distribution of materials will be arranged for and stored
on each project site.



APPENDIX 2
Page 3
10.       A staff of technical advisors/supervisors (experienced construction
foremen) program would be selected--possibly from project applicants--to
provide on-site assistance to the individual owner-builders.
11.       Temporary warehouses and compounds would be constructed to house
the materials on site. The program would be available for an eight-month
period.
Infrastructure and Urbanization Designs
12.       Specific consideratin has been given to infrastructure and urbani-
zation designs that will assure efficient use of land, reduce infrastructure
costs and provide maximum flexibility for progressive development.
13.       A prototypical layout (Chart WB 16127 and Map IBRD 12275) incorporat-
ing the proposed service level mix, lot size options, infrastructure networks,
land uses and densities has been used as a basis for project design and cost
estimates. Efficiencies in this layout are reflected in high (68%) residential
lot areas, open space (13%) and reduced circulation areas (19%) and network
lengths. A density of 81 plots/ha (480 persons/ha) is achieved.
14.       Vehicular streets and limited parking areas are provided central
to the project areas, and separate from the primarily pedestrian interior
circulation. Footpaths will be surfaced, local storm drainage by surface
cannals. The sanitary sewerage network will be water-borne. Fire hydrants
will be provided.
Detailed Costs
15.       Based on the prototypical layouts for San Rafael La Laguna "V" (see
Map IBRD 12275 and Chart WB 16128) and core units, average unit costs are
detailed in estimate tables 1, 2 and 3, and as follows:
LEVEL I      LEVEL II     LEVEL III
Land                     187.15       187.15        187.15
Urbanization             395.00       395.00        395.00
Plot infrastructure
connections and
core construction         115.00      594.38      1,248.80
Materials credit          400.00      400.00        400.00
Installation
charges, meters, etc.   255.00        255.00        255.00
TOTAL             1,352.15    1,831.53       2,485.95



APPENDIX 2
Page 4
16.       These costs include physical contingencies, design and supervision
costs, administration, surcharges for water and power installation, etc., and
represent costs to the project beneficiaries.
17.       Off-site infrastructure costs are estimated to be an average of
Q 178 per plot inclusive of physical contingencies, administration, design/
supervision.
18.       The total development cost of the sites and services  component
(inclusive of contingencies as shown in para 5.06) is Q 25.9 million. This
represents 61% of the total project cost. Q 1.395 million development cost
for power will be provided by EEGSA.
19.       Project beneficiaries would incur installation charges of:
(a)  surcharge for water service (1/3 paja de aqua = 20 m2
per month) = Q 180;
(b) water meter, installation and inspection = Q 55;
(c) electric meter, installation and inspection = Q 15;
(d) legal titling and notarial fee for property deed = Q 5; and
(e) total per lot = 255.
20.       This represents about Q 2.55 million in additional beneficiaries'
costs.
Facilities and Services
21.       Refuse collection, multipurpose community centers (each with small
outpatient health clinic), and schools will be provided to each project site.
Fourteen primary schools will be built on the project sites as part of the
education loan component.
22.       Costs for these facilities (exclusive of school buildings) is
estimated to be Q 50 per unit.
Project Implementation
23.       Implementation of the sites and services component will be in three
stages over a three and a half year period 1976-1979 (Chart WB 16093).
24.       Stage I--2,400 units--is programmed for the San Rafael La Laguna
area. Existing infrastructure and development in the area will facilitate the
accelerated execution of these project sites (see Map IBRD 12274 and Chart WB
16093).



APPEI?DIX 2
Table- 1
OFERTA PARA:   PROTEECTO SAN IOAFL LA  CJTA a                      Tal __  1976
OFERENTE
"AREAS Y VOLUMENES"
EDIFICIO: 1TR1tt1lT ASTICA - AT,ER-UALPTVA 2 -- 26.8 T,2
RENGLON        DESCRIPCION Y PRECIO UNITARIO EN          PRECIO EN QUETZALES
NUMERO          QUETZALES ESCRITO EN LETRAS            UNITARIO      TOTAL POR
i__ _ _ _ _ _  I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _R E N G LO N
1         CIMIENMOS                                  4.429/ML       78.61
2         "UROS                                     8.279/P42    289.35
3         D.ENAJJES                                  9. o86/ML      63.60
4         ACGUA                                      5 .i43/in      36.oo
5         YIz0                                       4. 1ioo/t      89,36
6         PUMRTAS                                    38.oo/u        76. oo
?         ARTI,?ACTOS                                12.oo/u        48.oo
8         F.LM CT ICID ! D                           16.35/u        65*.o
9         ACERA                                       4. oo/M,      11.88
10         TECHO                                      6.299/M2    173.47
11        VINTANERIA                                  23.oo/M 2       55.20
COSTO DIRlFCTO                              986*47
COSTO TOTAL (1.36 C.D.o                    1341.60
NOTA:
. El costo direoto inclayes
Paterisles, Mino de obra, I?res-
taoiones laoorales.  (ireoios ac
tuales),
_ 1.36 1ncluye:
Gastos generales, lmprevistos -
utilidad, Fiarnzas, eto.
VAN                                                    Q. 



APPEISKD=  2
Table 2
OFERTA PARA:
OFERENTE
"AREAS Y VOLUMENES"
EDIFICIO:    URrANTZACTOW -- SAII RFAFEL LA LAG!TTA "VI' -- 2795 Lots
RENGLON       DESCRIPCION Y PRECIO UNITARIO EN        PRECIO EN QUETZALES
NUMERO         QUETZALES ESCRITO EN LETRAS           UNITARIO    TOTAL POR
1..       CALL  PP.RI C1-AL (1.CC Mts)
3000.00 ML.          103.15/ML   309,j450. o
2.-       ES C I ONAMI n'YNTOS
900.oo ML X  .*40      5.50/M2    26p730.o
3.-      CALLiS DE PENE:TRACION
720.00 X 3.00  . M    48.85/ML    35.172.oc
4e.t -CALLES i'KPQONALLS
139000..OoX 1.50M1    33.87/ML   440,293.0
COSTO DIhECTO                            8119645.o
COSTO TOTAiL (1.36 C.D. 1,103,837.2
NOTLA:
_ Costo directo por V-2
de lote urbanizedo = Q.2.S0/ Jr * (1.99 M2)
El costo directo lneluye;
Materiales, Mahc de o'ra, Pre3ta
ciones laborales. (Precios actua
les) .
- 1.36 incluye:
Gestos zenerales, imprevistos TJU
tilidad, Fianzes, et._
(Q39V--Per
Lot.)
VAN________________________



A,91 21QTX 2
Tpable 3
OFERTA PARA:    E         S0  ?A.  LA T..... rr- -PRIL .           Tal6
OFERENTE
"AREAS Y VOLUMENES"
EDIFICIO:  UNXDAD Sl' .T7'PI A--  .. IA-
RENGLON        DESCRIPCION Y PRECIO UNITARIO EN          PRECIO EN QUETZALES
NUMERO          QUETZALES ESCRiTO EN LETRAS            UNITARIO      TOTAL POR
1         - 1 T -, N                                 4.429/ M4L     30.78
2          Troc                                      8.279/1L2    1o9o6
3         CILDWYiNA                                  3.5471ML        9.15
4         Viclp                                      4. 388/MIL       7.90
5         vi, .,\r,AiJ~$                             9. o86/ML      63.60
6         AGJUA                                      5.143/ML       36.oo
7         USC                                        4.100/1M2      25.83
8            .-    ..g:                                         _ _  ___ __ .   o  __
9            1sc: FACi'0                             12.oo/u        48.oo
10         ELECTRICIDAr                               25.50/l         51Ooo
11         TECHiO                                       6. 50/?2      6o.o6
12         VENTANERIA                                 23.00/M2       20.70
L462 . 08
COSTO DIREC:TO                               i
COSTO TOTAL (1.36 -xD.*)                     669.23
, =====S
,OTAs
-  E1 costo directo inmluye:
M'etertales, .'A!flo de obra, Prests
cio nes l. borales. (Precolos ectuP
les).
-  1.36 in6luye:
Gastos gener9les, imprevistos,
Utilidad, Fianzas, etc.-
VAN                                                    Q.



APPENDIX 3
Page 1
GUATEMALA
APPRAISAL OF THE EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX: URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT COMPONENT
Supervised Credit Program
1.        The analysis of ten urban centers outside of Guatemala City-depart-
ment (provincial) capitals-for the proposed credit program presents considerable
diversity among small cities in the affected area-from the mountain areas of
the central and western regions to the low-lying eastern region. Although all
are largely dependent on an agricultural base, industry and tourism are signi-
ficant in some of the cities. Some are easily accessible by major roads and
rail lines while others lie in remote mountain valleys. Indigenas populations
are most common in the cool highlands while ladinos (mixed Spanish/Indians)
predominate in the warmer lowland areas.
Regional Groupings
2.        For purposes of BANVI's diagnostic survey, three area groupings have
been proposed: (i) Solola, Quiche and Totonicapan; (ii) Antigua, Chimal-
tenango and Salama; and (iii) El Progreso, Jalapa, Zacapa and Puerto Barrios.
This analysis is based on "Regionalization" by the Secretaria de Planifica-
cion Economica.
Earthquake Damage
3.        Estimates of the damage were made by national and local officials. 1/
Preliminary count on housing lost was based on estimated percentages of dwell-
ings destroyed multiplied by the number of dwellings (from census figures
in 1975). The range in percentage of destruction in dramatic, with housing
in Chimaltenango and El Progreso listed as 100% destroyed. Salama was repor-
ted at 75% while the three western cities were 45%-50% destroyed, as were
Jalapa and Zacapa in the east. From the standpoint of serious housing need,
Chimaltenango, Jalapa and Zacapa standout with 1,300-2,600 units destroyed.
Most of the other cities lost 600-900 units (see Table 1).
4.        The total number of units destroyed in all ten cities is reported
at about 11,000. With an average loan range in size from Q 500 to Q 800
the loan assistance would cover 8,000 families or 73% of the units destroyed.
1/   Government of Guatemala.  Evaluacion de los Danos Causados por el Terremoto,
su Impacto y Lineamientos para un Programa Inmediato de Reconstruccion.
(Evaluation of the damage caused by the earthquake, its impact on economic
and social development, and guidelines for an immediate reconstruction
program), March 1976.



APPENDIX 3
Page 2
City Size and Demographic Characteristics
5.        Among the ten urban centers under study there is broad range in
size-from 4,000 up to 28,000. Solola, Salama El Progreso are the smallest.
Quiche and Totonicapan have populations of about 8,000; Chimaltenango, Jalapa
and Zacapa have 13-14,000; Antigua and Puerto Barrios are the largest with
18,000 and 28,000 respectively (Table 2).
6.        Growth rates vary from less than 1% in Solola to over 10% in
Puerto Barrios. Most are between 2% and 5%. As for demographic mix, there is
considerable variation and credit programs should be tailored to the particular
needs and preferences of the indigenas or ladinos in each area. In the Western
region indigenas make up a large part of the urban population and 90-100% in
the rural areas of each municipio. Thus Chimaltenango and Antigua have little
in common, although located in the same general area. The former is predomi-
nantly indigenas (60-80%) and the latter is 95% ladino (65% in rural area).
Salama is predominantly ladino, urban and rural (80-65%).
7.        The four cities identified by BANVI in the eastern region (Area 3)
are almost entirely ladino (90-100%). This assessment is from data published
about 1960 in the Diccionario Georgrafico de Guatemala based on the 1950 census.
It can be updated but the general mix should hold, depending on migration
patterns. Such a study has been done recently by the Instituto de Investi-
gaciones Economicas y Sociales of the University of San Carlos.
Economic Base
8.         Agricultural and industrial base is described generally for each
city. There is little published data available for most of the cities,
although income distribution can be obtained from the 1973 census. (Direccion
General de Estadisticas). Growth in Gross Product is given for the period
1965-72 for each departamento as well as Product per capita. The lowest is
El Progreso, while Sacatepequez and Isabal rank highest. This may be an
indicator of the general level of prosperity, but "capacity to pay" in the
urban centers would be better than in their respective departamentos.
9.        A brief description of the ten urban centers follows:



APPENDIX 3
Page 3
SOLOLA
Centro Urbano:       1975 Population --  4,002
Municipio:           1973 Population -- 42,360
2                       2
Area of Municipio:  94 km  (approximately 1.5 km  urban).  Includes 11 aldeas;
largest is San Jorge La Laguna.
Location:            Solola is located in the "Region Occidente" as defined
by the Secretaria de Planificacion Economica, and is
closely linked with Santa Cruz del Quiche, Totonicapan
and Quetzaltenango (about 80 km to the west). It lies
on National Route 1 between the Interamerican Highway
and Lago Atitlan (3 km to the south of centro), and is
121 km (75 miles) from Guatemala City.
Description:         The town lies at an altitude of 2,100 meters at the edge
of a mesa extending to mountains on the north, and bordered
on both east and west by deep barrancos, through which
flows Rios Panajachel and Iboya.
Population:          Growth has been less than 1% per year, the lowest of the
ben cabeceras, although the departamento has grown at
the rate of 2.3%. The urban population is nearly half
ladinos, while in the rural area of the municipio 98%
are indigenas. (Predominant indian language is Cakchiquel).
Economy:             The municipio depends mostly on agriculture but also typical
fabrics are produced and flour is ground. There is some
tourist business due to its proximity to Lake Atitlan,
a major attraction. The gross product of the departamento
has grown 45% (1965-72) and per capita income is about Q 240
per annum. The Federal Agency for Community Development is
quite active in Solola.
Earthquake Damage: According to the Government evaluation report (March 1976)'
50% of the total housing stock were destroyed.



APPENDIX 3
Page 4
SANTA CRUZ DEL QUICHE
(Depto. Quiche)
Centro Urbano:       1975 Population --  8,059
Mu_nicjip:           1973 Population -- 34,471
Area of Municipio:  128 km2 (approximately 1.5 km2 urban).  Includes 5 aldeas;
and 37 caserios (all rural).
Location:            Santa Cruz del Quiche is located in the "Region Occidente"
defined by Planificacion and is closely linked to Totoni-
capan and Solola which are within 35 to 45 km by road. It
is 157 km (97 miles) from Guatemala City. Principal
access is by National Route 15, but State routes 1, 2, 4
and 5 also converge on the city. It is only 18 km from
Chichicastenango, a major tourist attraction.
Description:         The city lies at an altitude of 2,000 meters in a beauti-
ful valley with a cool healthy climate and abundant water.
Nearby there are some mineral springs, supposedly with
medicinal properties. Rio Cucuba passes through a barranco
just east of the city. All flat land is in agricultural
use with trees only in the ravines and on hilltops.
Population:          the city (centro) has grown about 3.5% per year since 1950
while its departmento has grown at a slightly slower pace
of 3%. The urban population is 70% ladinos while the
surrounding rural area is over 90% indigenas, with predominant
language of Quiche.
Economy:             The municipio depends mostly on agriculture and there has
been an abundance of bambu. This may serve as a common
building material (bajareque). As an important crossroads
community, it would also provide considerable commercial
and service employment. The Federal Community Development
Agency is quite active in Quiche and small industry and
handicrafts are probably increasing. Gross product of the
Departamento grew 48% (1965-72) but per capita product
remains low at Q 220.
Earthquake Damage: The Government survey reported about 45% of the houses
were destroyed.



APPENDIX 3
Page 5
TOTONICAPAN
Centro Urbano:       1975 Population --  8,788
Municipio:           1973 Population -- 24,390
Area of Municipio:  328 km2 (approximately 1 km2 urban).  Includes 10 aldeas;
and numerous caserios which appear to be semi-urban.
Location:            Totonicapan is located in the "Region Occidente" and is
closely linked to Solola and Quiche, 55 km and 35 km respec-
tively. It is 165 km (102 miles) from the Capital via
Route CA-1, the Interamerican Highway Principal access is
from CA-1 via Route 1 eastwards about 10 km. Secondary
roads (unpaved) link to Quiche and CA-1 on the east.
Description:         The city lies at an altitude of 2,500 m and has a cool
climate. It lies in the valley along Rio Chimoral, with
rather steep, broken terrain immediately to the south and
some flat agricultural land to the northwest. Mountain
slopes and ravines are heavily wooded with pine, cypress
and oak. Fertile valley land produces wheat, corn, beans
and oats.
Population:          The city has grown about 1.5% per year since 1950, while
its departamento has grown at twice the rate (3%). The
urban population is only 25% ladinos, with three quarters
indigenas (over 99% in the rural areas). The indian
language is Quiche.
Economy:             Although agriculture is dominant, there are some industries
such as carpentry shops producing wooden tables and chairs,
ceramic plants, textile mills and shirt factories, two
flour mills and two rum distilleries (as of 1960). Much
of the wooded mountain land is owned in common by the
indigenas, an unusual case in Guatemala. The Federal
Community Development Program is quite active in Totoni-
capan. The departamento's gross product grew 50% (1965-72)
and per capita product is Q 269 per year.
Earthquake Damage: The Government survey reported about 50% of the houses
were destroyed.



APPENDIX 3
Page 6
ANTIGUA
(Depto. Sacatepequez)
Centro Urbano:       1975 Population -- 18,822
Municipio:           1973 Population -- 72,367
Area of Municipio:  78 km2 (approximately 2.5 km2 urban).  There are 12 aldeas;
including sizable towns of San Felipe de Jesus on the
north and San Juan del Obispo and San Pedro Las Huertas
about 3 km to the south.
Location:            Antigua lies in the Central Region and is closely linked
with Chimaltenango and the Capital. Principal access
roads are Routes 10 and 14, with minor roads extending
in all directions. Distance to Guatemala City is only
40 km (25 miles).
Description:         Antigua is a historic center founded in 1527 which had
prospered and grown to 60,000-70,000 inhabitants by the
17th century when it was the Capital. It is now much
smaller but remains a major tourist attraction with
over 30 colonial churches and other landmarks. The
fertile valley produces primarily coffee where consider-
able woodland remains. Volcanoes rise to the south
and west of the city. Antigua lies at an altitude of
1,500 meters.
Population:          The city has grown about 3% per year since 1950, the
same rate as Depto. Sacatepequez. Nearly 95% of the urban
population are ladinos, as well as 65% in the rural areas.
Economy:             The municipio has considerable industry producing wood
products, hardware, spinning, textiles, bricks and concrete
blocks, ceramics and liquors. Gross product in Sacate-
pequez increased by about 45% (1965-72) and per capita
product is about Q 290 per year. In the city it would
be somewhat higher. Tourism is perhaps the most important
activity.
Earthquake Damage: According to Government survey about 25% of houses were
destroyed.



APPENDIX 3
Page 7
CHIMALTENANGO
Centro Urbano:       1975 Population -- 13,714
Municipio:           1973 Population -- 74,129
Area of Municipio:  212 km2 (approximately 1.5 km2 urban).  Includes 2 aldeas
and 9 caserios.
Location:            Chimaltenango lies in the "Region Central" as defined
by Planificacion, and is linked to Antigua (23 km SE)
and Sumpango, Sacatepequez, Mexico and Guatemala City,
which lies only 50 km (31 miles) to the east. The
Interamerican Highway passes through the city providing
its principal access. National Route 14 links to
Antigua.
Description:         The city lies at an altitude of 1,800 meters in an
extensive valley with considerable flat land devoted to
agriculture. The center drains southward through Quebrada
de Rastro to Rio Guacalate. Woodland remains only in
the ravine and on surrounding hills.
Population:          The city center has grown rapidly at about 4.8% per year
since 1950, while its departamento increased at a rate
of only 2.6%. The urban population is about 40% ladinos,
and the rural area is over 80% indigenas, whose predominant
language is cakchiquel.
Economy:             Chimaltenango is important as an agricultural center
serving its large valley, but also has developed a sub-
stantial industrial base, including several textile mills
and small shops making typical embroideries. Also building
materials production is important, with sawmills, tile and
bricks works. The gross product of the departamento grew
36% (1965-72) and per capita product was low at Q 218 per
year. It would be higher within the municipio and urban
center.
Earthquake Damage: The Government survey reports about 100% of the housing
stock were destroyed.



APPENDIX 3
Page 8
SALAMA
(Depto. Baja Verapaz)
Centro Urbano:       1975 Population --  5,873
Municipio:           1973 Population -- 18,852
Area of Municipio:  776 km  (approximately 1.5 km  urban).  Divided into 10
barrios with 38 aldeas.
Location:            Salama lies in "Region Verapaces" in north central
Guatemala. It lies halfway between Coban, Cabecera
of Alta Verapaz (65 km north) and El Progreso (64 km
southeast). Principal access is from National Route
5, via a newly built road 5-A which shortens the dis-
tance to the Capital from 125 km to only 85 km, by way
of El Progreso.
Description:         Salama lies at an elevation of about 950 meters in a
beautiful valley, largely wooded with fields for grazing
cattle. The city is built on rough land with slopes of
15%-50%. Nearby forests abound in pine suitable for
building, and other woods such as mahogany, cedar and
"liquidambar". Several rivers converage in or near
the city with drainage to the northwest through Rio
Salama.
Population:          The city has grown rapidly at about 4.4% per year since
1950. Baja Verapaz is sparsely populated with a popula-
tion of 107,000 1973. Ladinos make up 80% of the urban
population and two-thirds in the rural areas of the muni-
cipio. The indigenal language is Kekchi.
Economy:             Agriculture in the area is dominated by cattle raising
and food processing, particularly milk products. Urban
industries include ceramics, textiles and straw hats, made
of palm and "hilama". Also production of lime and adobe
is important. The gross roduct of Baja Verapaz has increased
about 45% (1965-71) and is about Q 238 per capita. Salama
is also a tourist attraction, due to its setting, colonial
churches and handicrafts.
Earthquake Damage: According to the Government survey some 75% of its total
housing stock were destroyed.



APPENDIX 3
Page 9
EL PROGRESO
Centro Urbano:       1975 Population --  4,188
Municipio:           1973 Population -- 19,182
Area of Municipio:  262 km2 (approximately .5 km2 urban).  Includes 12 aldeas
of which Casas Viejas and Santa Lucia are most important
(1 km east).
Location:            El Progreso lies in the "Region Central" defined by
Planificacion. It is a part of the same "urban system"
as Guatemala City which is 67 km (42 miles) to the west
via the principal Ruta al Atlantico CA-9, soon to be
upgraded. Salama lies 64 km to the northwest and Jalapa
61 km to the south. The railroad line to Puerto Barrios
passes through El Progreso.
Description:         The city has a hot climate, being situated at an altitude
of only 500 meters ina small valley along Rio Guastatoya.
There agricultural land is excellent, and there is consider-
able thicket or "monte bajo" in the area. The urban center
is compact, but expanding mainly along roads to the south
and west.
Population:          El Progreso has grown at a rate of about 2.8% annually since
1950, while its departamento increased at 2.3%. The popula-
tion of both the urban center and municipio is almost
100% ladinos. Even the departamento has been only about
10% indigena.
Economy:             Despite its semi-arid land, the area has a rich agricultural
base, producing fruit and yucca, etc. There is little
industry, accounting for rather low per capita income in
the urban area. The gross product of the departamento
has grown only 20% during the 1965-72 period, which is the
lowest of the 10 cities under study. Per capita product
was only Q 210 in 1973.
Earthquake Damage: The Government survey reports that almost 100% of the
housing stock were destroyed.



APPENDIX 3
Page 10
JALAPA
Centro Urbano:       1975 Population -- 14,701
Municipio:           1973 Population -- 32,628
Area of Municipio:  544 km2 (approximately 2.5 km2 urban).  Includes 33 aldeas
with 98 caserios, which are mostly rural.
Location:            Jalapa lies in "Region Oriente Sur" as defined by Plani-
ficacion and is linked with Jutiapa some 57 km to the
south. Principal access is via Route 19 an all weather
road although unpaved, from the Atlantic Highway to the
north between El Progreso (61 km) and Guatemala City,
which is 97 km (42 miles).
Description:         The city is located in an extensive mountain valley at an
altitude of 1,630 mts., surrounded by low picturesque hills
and scattered vegetation. Agriculture is abundant with
coffee, quality tobacco, sugar cane, grain, fruit and honey
as the chief products. Cattle raising is also very important.
The city lies along Rio Jalapa which flows north through the
valley.
Population:          Jalapa has grown rapidly at about 4.7% per year since 1950.
The urban population has been about 90% ladinos, and nearly
all the inhabitants are property owners. In the rural areas
of the department over half the people are indigenas (55% in
1950).
Economy:             Jalapa has a rich agricultural base with 39% growth in the
departamento's gross product between 1965 and 1972. Per
capita product remains low, at about Q 209 in 1973. The
grain farmers are organized in a cooperative there, and
cattle raising is quit significant along with coffee,
fruit, etc. There is little industrial activity.
Earthquake Damage: According to Government survey reports about 50% of the
housing stock were destroyed.



APPENDIX 3
Page 11
ZACAPA
Centro Urbano:       1975 Population --
Municipio:           1973 Population -- 30,402
Area of Municipio:  517 km2 (approximately 3 km2 urban).  There are 35 aldeas
including sizable towns of La Fragua (1 km) and Llano
de Piedras (4 km) to the west; Santa Rosalia (4 km),
Santa Lucia and Tumuzna (6-8 km) to the south.
Location:            Zacapa lies in "Northeast Region" defined by Planifica-
cion and is linked to Chiquimula only 24 km south, and to
Puerto Barrios, some 171 km NE. It is 141 km (87 miles)
from Guatemala City. Principal access is from CA-10
which intersects the Atlantic Highway (CA-9) about 15 km
to the north. National Route 20 also passes through
Zacapa. The city lies at the junction of two railroad
lines connecting Guatemala City with Puerto Barrios on
the NE and Salvador on the south. With excellent road
and rail access it would appear to be important as a
transportation center.
Description:         The city lies at an elevation of 185 mts., in an extensive
valley used primarily for cattle. Other crops are grown
in the area such as corn, beans, yucca, bananas, coffee,
pineapple and sugar cane but the land is not so fertile
and lacks irrigation. Milk products and tobacco are also
important. The city lies just east of the Rio Grande de
Zacapa, and there is considerable flat, open land for
expansion.
Population:          Zacapa has grown at a moderate rate of 2.3% annually since
1950, about the same as its departamento. The urban popula-
tion has been about 95% ladinos.
Economy:             The city itself depends largely on commerce and services
for its large agricultural hinterland. Principal industries
include textiles, straw hats, and food processing including
"puros", cheese, rum and "panuela".  There is considerable
mining potential in the departamento with deposits of silver,
copper, iron, gold, lead and quality marble and limestone.
Chrome ore was previously exported as well as marble. Gross
product increased modestly at 36% (1965-72) but per capita
product was relatively high at Q 275 in 1973.
Earthquake Damage: The Government survey reports that about 50% of the
housing stock were destroyed.



APPENDIX 3
Page 12
PUERTO BARRIOS
(Depto. Isabal)
Centro Urbano:       1975 Population -- 28,248
Municipio:           1973 Population -- 31,316
Area of Municipio:  1,292 km  (approximately 3.5 km  urban).  Including 4
aldeas, the most important being the port of Matias
de Galvez (Santo Tomas) located about 10 km to the
southwest.
Location:            Puerto Barrios lies on the Bay of Amatique and is Guatemala's
only Atlantic port. The Atlantic Highway CA-9 and railroad
terminate there. It is about 300 km (185 miles) from Guate-
mala City.
Description:         The city is at sea level and has a hot, humid climate.  Its
hinterland is agricultural, producing bananas for export,
corn, beans, rice and yucca, as well as "abaca" fiber.
Population:          Puerto Barrios has experienced rapid growth since 1950, at
the rate of over 10% per year--by far the highest of the
cabeceras under study. Depto. Isabal has also rapidly
grown, at about 9% a year. Nearly all the urban popula-
tion are ladinos (over 95%) as well as in the rural area
of the municipio.
Economy:             Puerto Barrios is a major port city, but services a large
agricultural base. New port facilities have been developed
in Santo Tomas to provide for increasing trade, with large
warehouses and container loading facilities. The departamento
has some mineral wealth, and oil exploration was undertaken
in the 1960's but without much success. Timber is also
exported and a plywood mill began functioning before 1960.
Economic growth in the Departamento has increased by 65%
(1965-72) due to both agricultural and port activity. Per
capita product is relatively high at Q 286 (in 1973).
Earthquake Damage: According to Government survey destruction was relatively
light in Puerto Barrios, with about 15% of the housing stock
destroyed.



SUI,MARY OF DATA ON LOCATPION, POPULATION AND EARTHQUAKE DAMAGE
Cabecera (Urban Cent,er)     Dist.ance from     Persons    (*) Estimated                    Total Units
Guatemala City    Per  DU   1975 Population    Number         % Destroyed    Destroyed
Solola                       121 km   75 mi       5.2           14,022            775           50              385
Quiche (Santa Cruz de)       157 km   97 mi        5.2           8,059         1,550            45              700
Totonicapan                  165 km  102 mi       5.2            8,788         1,690            50              845
Antigua                       40 km   25 mi        5.3         18,322          3,550            25              890
Chimaltenango                 50 kr                5.1         13,7114          2,690          100            2,690
Salama                        85 km   53 mi        4.8           5,873          1,225           75              920
El Progreso                   67 km   42 mi        4.5           4,188            930          100              930
Jalapa                        97 km   60 mi        4.9          14,701          3,000           50            1,500
Zacapa                       141 km   87 mi        4.9          13,159          2,685           50            1,345
Puerto Barrios               298 km  185 mi        5.4         28,248           5,230           15              785
23,325                        10,990
Note:  Puerto Barrios populat.ion includes Matias de Galvez
(*-)  Source:  "Population Projections for Urban Centers of 2,000 or more inhabit.ants 1975-2000," from
Informe Final Sobre Estudio de Regionalizacion y Desarroll Metropolitano, UJniversidad
San Carlos (Nov., 1975).



POPUIATION AND ECONiTOMIC GROWTH BY CITY A4D DEPARTAIENTO
City/Departamento         City   (*)    Growth Rate         Departamento (**)            1965-72      Per   Capita
Pop. 1973      1950-1973    Pop.  1973    Gross Prod.  Q    Prod. Growth   Prod.  1973
Solola                       3,960           .85%       127,268       30,385,900          45%             239
Quiche                       7,651          3255%       298,686       65,820,300          48%             220
Totonicapan                  8,568          1.)47%      166,809        44,911,900         50%             269
Antigua (Sacatepequez)      17,994          2.93%        99,988       29,043,500          43%             290
Chimalteenango              12,860          2.76%       194,735       42,489,200          36%             218
Salama (Baja Verapaz)        5,529          4.36%       106,957       25,h42,300          45%             238
El Progreso                  4,009          2.83%        73,122       15,410,100           29%            210
Jalapa                      13,788          4.74%       118,074       24,692,000          39%             209
Zacapa                      12,680          2.31%       105,739       29,109,500          36%             275
Puerto Barrios (Isabel)     26,930          3.18%       169,818       48,596,90o          65%             286
Guatemala                  700,504          3.57%     1,208,174      983,908,400          49%             814
Quetzaltenango              53,021          3.97%       312,787       97,375,4oo          31%             311
Escuint.la                  33,205         1o.46%       277,031      112,009,400          59%             Lh4
(*)   Source:  From census data for "Centros Urbanos" (includes only urban population of Municipio).
(**)  Source:  Producto Geografico Bruto Por 2egiones 1965-72 from "Informe Final Sobre Estudio de Regionalizacion
y Desarrollo Metropolitano," Universidad San Carlos (Nov., 1975).
rQ 
I-    W



APPENDIX 4
Page 1
GUATEMALA
APPRAISAL OF THE EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX: URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT COMPONENT
Consultants' Terms of Reference
for Operational and Management Assistance
to Project Unit in BANVI
1.        Consultants' services would be needed over a three-year period to
assist BANVI in the implementation of the project. The primary responsibility
of the consultants is to advise and assist the Project Unit for reconstruction
and BANVI in the execution of key elements of the Project. The consultants
would report to the Vice President for Reconstruction through the Project Unit
Coordinator/Administrator.
2.        Advisory assistance totalling about 108 man-months commencing in
September/October 1976 would be needed in the fields of engineering, architec-
ture, urban planning, business development and community organization and
training. BANVI would be responsible for reviewing qualifications, experience
and employment of the above consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
3.        More detailed terms of reference will be prepared by BANVI, but
would include the following:
(a) Senior Engineer--would be responsible for the coordination of
the other advisors and advise the Vice President for Reconstruc-
tion and Project Unit Coordinator/Administrator on technical
and engineering aspects of the project. He will be responsible
for setting up adequate procedures for monitoring progress of
implementation including physical works, costs, selection of
settlers, inspection of supervised credits in the 10 urban
centers, promotion of small business development subprojects,
etc.;
(b) Urban Planner--would be responsible for the review and
analysis of BANVI's housing program and the requirements of
low-income families especially those severely affected and
displaced by the earthquake. He will advise the Project Unit
on site selection for future projects and analyze alternatives
in terms of costs, preferred settlement patterns, employment
effects and overall impact on the proposed plans and programs
for squatter families who have "invaded" publicly owned lands;



APPENDIX 4
Page 2
(c) Architect/Planner--would advise and oversee the design and
detailed engineering prepared by the design consultants. He
will coordinate and supervise the preparation of tender docu-
mentation, contractual arrangements, cost estimates and
bidding evaluation. The advisor would assist in the identi-
fication of project sites, and liaison with municipal agencies
with respect to off-site infrastructure and services. In
addition, he would assist the Project Unit in the identifica-
tion and preparation of design standards, construction with
particular emphasis on earthquake resistant techniques. In
coordination with the Urban Planner and BANVI staff he would
define and organize the construction materials credit program
and community development efforts; and
(d) Business Development Specialist--would be responsible for
the promotion and development of small businesses in the project
sites, supervise the utilization of materials loans for project
beneficiaries and assist BANVI staff in the overall appraisal
of proposed subloans to building materials manufacturers.
Specific duties would also include the preparation and execu-
tion of a training program to upgrade skills in BANVI and
provide technical assistance to community organization groups
in project sites involved in self-help and mutual-aid assist-
ance programs. He will also monitor subloans to building
materials manufacturers and prepare quarterly reports which
would include: subproject commitments disbursements, compo-
nents financed (e.g., machinery, equipment, materials for
expansion, modernizatin or new enterprises), economic impact
of subprojects on employment creation and general performance
and financial operations of the enterprise.



APPENDIX 5
Page 1
GUATEMALA
APPRAISAL OF THE EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX: URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT COMPONENT
Banco Nacional de la Vivienda (BANVI)
Background
1.        In 1956, the Instituto Cooperative Interamericano de la Vivienda
(ICIV) was organized. Its purpose was to develop social interest housing
programs under the system known as "Self-Help and Mutual Assistance",
consisting in the participation of the beneficiaries in the construction
of their housing units. ICIV financed 6,852 housing units with these
funds, having an average value of approximately US$1,000.
2.        Subsequently, the Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda (INVI) was
organized by virtue of Decree No. 345 dated May 13, 1965, for the purpose
of planning and implementing Government housing programs, having taken
over ICIV's assets and liabilities.
3.        INVI received new funds from two loans from Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB):
Loan IDB 39-T/F        US$5,300,000
Loan IDB 219-SF/GU    US$4,600,000
When BANVI was organized, the second loan had not been fully utilized,
there being a balance of approximately US$815,000.
4.        The Guatemalan Congress approved BANVI's Organic Law by means
of Decree No. 2-73, dated January 24, 1973, and ratified by the Executive
Power on February 21, 1973.
5.        Article 65 of the mentioned Decree stipulated that BANVI would
take over INVI's rights and obligations, assuming the latter's assets
and liabilities and Article 70 decreed that BANVI "should initiate its
operations on July 1, 1973."
6.        In the period included between approval of the Law (February
1973) and initiation of operations (July 1, 1973), the necessary Regula-
tions and Manuals were prepared, enabling BANVI to undertake the duties
stipulated by Law. This work was under the direction of Lic. Oscar
Mauricio Gonzalez, who was appointed BANVI's first President.



APPENDIX 5
Page 2
7.        Article 2 of the Organic Law indicates that the purpose of BANVI
is to undertake Urban Development and Housing Construction Programs to
satisfy the necessities of lower-income groups. BANVI has been granted
the broadest faculties by its Organic Law; i.e., Article 5 indicates
that BANVI should, among other things:
-    assist in the solution of the country's housing deficit
-    create the necessary mechanisms and incentives permitted
by the banking and financial law, to stimulate and
attract savings, particularly intended for housing
construction
-    promote and carry out its own urban renewal programs
-    carry out construction works directly or through contractors
to supply adequate housing facilities as well as carry out
those works which will supply the main public services
It is likewsie provided in Article 45 that BANVI may carry out commercial
banking and mortgage operations, directly related to its main objective as
indicated in Article 2 of its Organic Law.
Organization
8.        In accordance with its Organic Law, BANVI's highest authorities
are:
(a) The Board of Directors
(b) The President
(c) The Credit and Trust Committee
9.        The Board of Directors is made up of the following:
(i) President -- Minister of Economy
(ii) Directors
a.   Minister of Finance
b.   President of the Instituto de Hipotecas Aseguradas
(FRA)
c.   A representative of the Guatemalan Chamber of
Construction
d.   BANVI's President



APPENDIX 5
Page 3
(iii) Alternative Directors
a.   Vice-Minister of Economy
b.   Vice-Minister of Finance
c.   Manager of FRA
d.   Representative of the Guatemalan Construction
Chamber
e.   One of BANVI's Vice Presidents, appointed by
the President
10.       The President is assisted by three Vice Presidents.  The President
is appointed by the President of the country, who is the only one who can
remove him. The Vice Presidents are appointed by the Board of Directors,
following the President's recommendation. The important role of BANVI's
President should be emphasized as the majority of the actions of the Board
of Directors are taken following the President's proposal.
11.       A Credit and Trust Committee is composed of:
(i) The President
(ii) Banking Vice President
(iii) Executive Vice President; and
(iv) Chief of Credit Analysis
12.       The Chief of Credit Analysis acts as advisor to the Committee.
Management
13.       The Board of Directors meets at least once a week and the Vice
Presidents meet regularly with the President for the purpose of coordinating
resolutions to be taken by the Board.
14.       The Executive Vice President is responsible for BANVI's basic
administrative functions including budgeting, personnel, accounting, legal,
general maintenance of furniture and equipment and real properties of BANVI,
supplies, janitorial and security services, etc. Under the Executive Vice
Presidency a special program has been created known as Community and Home
Extension Educators, for the purpose of making beneficiaries of the housing
projects financed by BANVI aware of the importance of making their payments
on time and in order to help strengthen the family income through employment
of wives in artisan-type work.



APPENDIX 5
Page 4
15.       The following Departments are under this Vice President:
(a) Systems and Procedures
(b) Operations Administration
(c) Technical Administration
(d) Legal
16. The Banking Vice President is responsible for BANVI's banking operations,
granting of loans, collections, foreign operations, agencies, savings accounts,
checking accounts, etc.
17.       The Banking Operations Department is under this Vice President's
supervision and has the following sections:
(a) Portfolio
(b) Collections
(c) Analysis
(d) Foreign Operations
(e) Bonds and Securities
(f) Treasury
18.       There are two additional employees under this Vice President,
known as Business Executives. It is planned to increase their number to
six, their functions being to assist credit applicants informing them
about BANVI's services, and to follow up credit applications once they have
been received. It is also the duty of these Executives to attract more
clients, especially those opening checking accounts.
19.       The Production Vice President is responsible for planning and
carrying out BANVI's housing programs, either directly or contracting with
private companies. The following Departments are under this Vice President's
supervision:
(a) Planning
(b) Supervision and Control



APPENDIX 5
Page 5
20.       There is also a unit charged with promoting and counseling
Housing Cooperatives. To date it reports directly to the Production Vice
President although in the organizational chart its level is lower than
that of a subsection.
Personnel
21.       The most important positions in BANVI are held by persons who
previously held positions in INVI and who are experienced in the prepara-
tion, implementation and supervision of housing programs, i.e., the
President, Production Vice President and Executive Vice President. The
Banking Section is headed by an official who previously held a position
in the Banco de Guatemala.
22.       Presently BANVI has the following qualified personnel:
Business Administrators                       1
Economists                                    7
Public Accountants and Auditors               4
Attorneys and Notaries                        6
Architects                                    5
Civil Engineers                               7
Industrial Engineers                          1
TOTAL                                  31
Community and Home Extension
Educators                                    21
Operational Policies
23.       BANVI's present policy is described in the information contained
in the report for fiscal year 1975 presented to the Board of Directors by
BANVI's President. This report shows that loans granted by the commercial
sector (Banking Vice Presidency) amounted to Q 3.3 million and collections
were in the amount of Q 654,000. The development sector (under the Produc-
tion Vice Presidency and is primarily responsible for sites and services
project) constructed housing equivalent to Q 2.3 million and its collections
from clients was Q 3.3 million. The Development Sector has been unable to
construct and sell housing units at the same rate it is making collections.



APPENDIX 5
Page 6
24.       The cost of housing units financed by the commercial sector
averages about Q 9,000.
25.       In connection with the Development Sector, programs are presently
carried out by consultants and supervised by technical personnel from the
Supervision and Control Department. Each project has its own construction
supervisor, whose obligation is to visit the construction site daily and
make the corresponding observations, entering them in a "construction book"
kept by the contractor. This book is reviewed by BANVI's supervisors.
26.       The cost of this supervision is estimated to be 2% of the cost
of construction and is deducted from each payment made to the contractor.
27.       Payments to contractors are made through presentation of a break-
down which should carry the approval of the Inspector and BANVI's Supervisor.
28.       The cost of each housing unit delivered by the Development Sector
in 1975 was approximately Q 3,000.
Housing Policy
29.       The policy for adjudication of housing and loans to individuals
or firms was adopted by the the Board of Directors on October 23, 1975.
A. Housing for Low-Income
BANVI's Programs contracted with Private Parties
30.       Housing units are available for low-income families with 10%
downpayment and payable in 20 years in equal monthly payments including
an 8% interest p.a. In addition, there is a 0.9% payment (fondo de pre-
vision) which is equivalent to mortgage insurance (in case of the bene-
ficiary's death, the debt is cancelled).



APPENDIX 5
Page 7
B. Housing for Middle-or High-Income
Construction Loans to Individuals
31.       Loans for up to 80% of the total cost of the project, including
land, are granted by the commercial sector of BANVI, the minimum being
Q 800, and the maximum Q 20,000.
Interest: 11% per annum. During construction interest is
deducted from each payment.
Supervision Expenses: 2% of the value of the construction,
deducted from payments.
No charge is made for credit analysis although fire, earthquake
and related insurance is required.
Loans to Individuals for Purchase of Lot and Construction
32.       Amount:  Up to 90% of total value.
Land Cost: According to appraisal carried out by BANVI.
Interest: 11% per annum. During construction interest is
deducted from each payment.
Supervision Expenses: 2% of the value of the construction,
deducted from payments.
No charge is made for credit analysis although fire, earthquake
and related insurance is required.
Loans to Individuals for Lien Substitution
33.       These loans are granted to persons who have received mortgage
loans from individuals and are paying a high interest rate. When the loans
have been granted by other banks BANVI does not interfere.
Amount: Up to 80% of appraisal made by BANVI.
Term: Up to 15 years.
Interest: 11% per annum. During construction interest is
deducted from each payment.
Supervision Expenses: 2% of the value of the construction,
deducted from payments.
No charge is made for credit analysis although fire, earthquake
and related insurance is required.



APPENDIX 5
Page 8
Purchase of Home
34.       Amount:  Up to 80% of appraisal carried out by BANVI.
Term: Up to 15 years.
Interest: 11% per annum. During construction interest is
deducted from each payment.
Supervision Expenses: 2% of the value of the construction,
deducted from payments.
No charge is made for credit analysis although fire, earthquake
and related insurance is required.
Expansion and Improvements
35.       Amount:  Up to 80%.
Term: Up to 15 years.
Interest: 11% per annum. During construction interest is
deducted from each payment.
Supervision Expenses: 2% of the value of the construction,
deducted from payments.
No charge is made for credit analysis although fire, earthquake
and related insurance is required.
Loans to Companies Engaged in the Manufacture and Sale of Construction and
Related Materials
36.       Purpose:  Working capital.
Amount: Up to 100% of value of goods offered in guarantee.
Term: 1-5 years.
Interest: 9.75% per annum. During construction interest is
deducted from each payment.
Supervision Expenses: 2% of the value of the construction,
deducted from payments.
No charge is made for credit analysis although fire, earthquake
and related insurance is required.



APPENDIX 5
Page 9
Loans to Cooperatives
37.       Amount:  Up to 90% of total project investment.
Term: 20 years.
Interest: 9%
Supervision Expenses: 2% of the value of the construction,
deducted from payments.
No charge is made for credit analysis although fire, earthquake
and related insurance is required.
Loans to Construction Companies
38.       To finance urbanization works.
Amount: 70% of total cost.
Term: 1-5 years.
Interest: 11% per annum. During construction interest is
deducted from each payment.
Supervision Expenses: 2% of the value of the construction,
deducted from payments.
No charge is made for credit analysis although fire, earthquake
and related insurance is required.
Urbanization and Construction
39.       Amount:  Up to 80% and in some cases 90% of total project
investment.
Term: 1 year, renewable.
BANVI reserves the right to designate beneficiaries. The cost
of housing units financed by the commercial sector is Q 5,000 -
Q 15,000.   The family income required is Q 200-Q 500.
Acquisition of Other Funds
40.       BANVI pays a 4% interest on savings accounts carrying a balance of
Q 1 to Q 100.  Accounts with balances over Q 101 receive an 8% interest.



APPENDIX 5
Page 10
41.       In spite of the fact that the savings accounts balance (of Q 5.5
million) as of December 31, 1975 was 250% over that for 1974, there appears
to be no aggressive campaign intended to attract new savings accounts.
During 1975 BANVI started a campaign to attract funds from fixed-term
deposits (not less than 90 days) and on December 31, 1975 it had received
deposits amounting to Q 1,156,000.
42.       BANVI also keeps checking accounts.  In the future this may prove
to be a valuable tool to expedite payments to contractors.
43.       The history of checking accounts is as follows:
As of December 31
(In Quetzales)
1973                             395,000
1974                             372,000
1975                          1,156,000
Future Policy
44.       BANVI's President has stated that the institution should carry
out its credit operations without dealing directly with beneficiaries, the
reason being that since BANVI is a government entity, there is strong
pressure against actions taken to deal with delinquent customers, and
the beneficiaries themselves adopt a passive attitude concerning their
payments.
45.       BANVI's future activities would be oriented to extend credits
in Guatemala City through Housing Cooperatives which it would promote and
advise. The members of these cooperatives could be low-income groups.
46.       BANVI would, likewise, encourage organization, both in Guatemala
City and in the "cabeceras departamentales", of Housing Savings and Loan
Associations wherein private enterprise would participate holding 50%
of the shares, the other 50% being held by BANVI. Such associations would
service the middle-income groups with their own funds and with funds from
savings accounts. While lower-income groups would be serviced with BANVI's
funds, with the exception of Guatemala City, where this sector would be
organized in Cooperaives.
47.       The creation of a savings and loan system, however, would in
practice inhibit it from direct participation in the attraction of public
savings as BANVI would virtually be competing with the Housing Savings
and Loan Associations, where it would be a shareholder and direct supervisor.



APPENDIX 5
Page 11
48.       Due to the fact that BANVI would not compete directly in the
attraction of public savings funds, for the purpose of increasing its
resources, a "captive market" is under consideration whereby workers
who would receive an increase in wages and salaries could deposit this
BANVI in the form of compulsory savings. However the feasibility of
this proposal and other plans to create other means for raising funds,
such as insurance company reserves, indemination funds, compulsory
acquisition of bonds, etc., remains to be studied.
49.       In accordance with the foregoing, BANVI would adopt the role
of fostering institutions specialized in the financing of housing and
institutions specialized in the administration and maintenance of housing
programs through Savings and Loan Associations and Cooperatives.



GUATEMALA
BANCO NACIONAL DE LA VIVIENDA
BALANCE SHEETS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
(thousand Q.)
------ Actual ------                ------------- Forecast ------------------------- ----------
1974           1975                1976         1977         1978          1979         1980         1981         1982
ASETS
Current Assets
Cash                                                 597-7         3,247.1             2,080.3      1,772.6      2,960.5      3,688.6      3,174.8       3,241.0      4,600.9
Short-temn investments                             2,195.3         1,577.9             1,000.0      1,000.0      1,000.0      1,500.0      1,200.0       1,200.0      1,200.0
Interest receivable                                  157.1           424.2               475.0        500.0        525.0        550.0         550.0        550.0        550.0
Contractor advances                                   96.1           549.8               659.8        791.8        950.2        650.2         450.2        450.2        450.2
Other current assets                                 528.8           990.1             1,089.1      1,198.0      1,317.8      1,449.6      1,449.6       1,449.6      1,449.6
Total current assets                              3,575.0        6,789.1              5,304.2      5,262.4      6,753.5      7,838.4      6,824.6      6,890.8      8,250.7
Long-term loans                                     21,786.7        25,977.2            30,165.2    33,055.2    35,305.2    37,525.2    41,514.2          46,262.2     eI,,87.2
Reconstruction loans                                                                                  7,359.0     20,680.0      42,105.0     40,786.0    38,928.0    36,209.0
Housing projects in progress                         9,477.1         9,757.2             9,490.1    15,255.1    21,258.1    10,940.1    10,440.1           9,440.1      8,440.1
Fixed assets - net                                     455.5           417.4                404.9       387.4        364.9        313.7        260.0         203.8        145.1
Other assets                                            30.             32.3                24.4         16,5          8.6          0.7          -             -            -
TOTAL ASSEIS                                         35,315.0       42,973.2            45,388.8    61,335.6    84,370.3    98,723.1    99,824.9   101,724.9    104,832.1
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Deposits                                           2,962.0         8,271.8             9,926.2    11,911.4    14,293.7    17,152.4    19,725.3    22,684.1    26,o86.7
Deferred interest inccme                             157.1           424.2               475.0        500.0        525.0        550.0         550.0        550.0        550.0
Other current liabilities                            535.9           953.7             1,049.1      1,154.0      1,269.4      1,396.3      _1,6          1,396.3      1.396.3
Total current liabilities                         3,655.0        9,649.7            11,450.3    13,565.4    16,088.1    19,098.7    21,671.6    24,630.4    28,033.0
Longtr debt
LongIDBvm debt                                   8,815.8         8,411.7             8,005.4      7,596.8      7,186.0      6,772.9       6,357.5      5,939.7      5,519.6
Bank of Guatemala contributibn                                                                   13,124.0    32,448.0    42,105.0    40,786.0    38,928.0    36,209.0
Deferred profits                                        12.5           492.8               473.3        453.8        434.3         414.8        395.3        375.8        356.3
Provisions                                           1,437.2         2,136.9             2,386.9      2,646.9      2,916.9      3,196.9       3,486.9      3,786.9      4,o96.9
Capital    a2,5.
Paid capital                                       22,201.7        23,357.7            24,357.7     25,357.7    26,847.7    28,862.7    28,862.7    29,656.1          31,994.4
Retained earnings (deficit)                            0( 075 6)                       (1,284.8)    (l 409 0)    (1 550.7)    (1727.2)    (1735.1)    (15.0)    (I 377 1)
2307.9  L            T .2, 297.0    27,134.  2,7.         2,06.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                   35,315.0        42,973.2            45.388.8    61.335.6    84,370.3       98,723.1     99,824.9    101,724.9    104,832.1
AVERAGE TOTAL ASSETS (ATA)                             -            39,1i44.1           44,181.0    53.362.2      72,853.0    91,546.7    99,274.0   100,774.9   103,278.5
CURRENT RATIO                                            1.0              .7                  .5           .4           .4           .4           .3 i                       .3            (
% increase in total assets                            -                 21.7%                5.6%        35.1%        37.6%        17.0%         1.1%          1.9%         3.1%
Deposits/Debt/EquitY                                 9/27/64       21/22/57             24/20/56    21/37/42     18/50/32      18/53/29     21/50/29      24/47/29     27/42/31



GUATEbALA
BANCO NACIONAL DE LA VIVIENDA
Cash Flow Statements for the Years Ended December 31
(Thousand Q.)
ACTUAL                                          F O R E C A S T
1974        1975        1976         1977        1978         1979        1980         1981        182
SOURCES
Net incomse (loss)                                    (389-0)     (268.5)     (209.2)      (124.2)     (141.7)      (177.2)       (7.2)      143.1        214.9
Depreciation and amortization                           81.2        60.3        70.4         75.4        80.4         84.1        79.4         81.2        83.7
Deferred profit amortization                           __          (19-5)       (19.5)      (19.5)      (19.5)       (19.5)      (19.5)       (19.5)      (19.5)
Internal Cash Generation                            (307.8)     (227.7)     (158.3)       (68.3)      (80.8)      (112.6)       52.7       204.8        279.1
Increase in deposits                                1,623.6      5,309.8     1,654.4      1,985.2     2,382.3     2,858.7      2,572.9     2.958.8      3.402.6
Increase (decrease) in other current liabilities       (53.3)      417.8        95.4        104.9       115.4        126.9
Increase in deferred profits                                       499.8
Increase in provisions                                232.3        699.7       250.0        260.0       270.0        280.0       290.0        300.0       310.0
Paid capital                                        1,000.0      1,000.0     1,000.0      1,000.0     1,000.0      1,000.0
Bank of Guatemala contributions                                                          13,124.o    19,636.o    10,331.0
Other capital increase                                 22.4        156.1
Reconstruction loan payments                                                                            490.0      1,015.0     2,029.0      2,920.0     4,442.0
LESS--IBRD loan payments                                                                                                    (1,728.0)   (1,728.0)   (1,728.0)
BARVI revenue                                                                                                           (301.0)      (398.6)     (375.7)
Retained as capital                                 _49.0                                                          1,015.0                    793-      2,338.3
TOTAL SOURCES                                     2,517.2      7,855.5     2,841.5    16.405.8    23,812.9    15,499.0       2,915.6      4,257.0     6,330.0
APPLICATIONS
Increase (decrease) in short-term investments          387.0      (617.4)      (577.9)                              (500o.)     (300.0)
Increase (decrease) In contractor advances            (481i1)      453.7       110.0        132.0       158.4       (300.0)     (200.0)
Increase (decrease) in other current assets           (542.5)      461.3        99.0        108.9       119.8        131.8
Increase in long-term loans--net                      623.6      4,190.5     4,188.0      2,890.0     2,250.0      2,220.0     3,989.0      4,748.0     5,525.0
Reconstruction loans                                                                      7,359.0    13,633.0    22,099.0
Housing projects--net                                1,548.8       280.1       (267.1)    5,765.0     6,003.0   (10,318.0)      (500.0)   (1,000.0)   (1,000.0)
Fixed asset additions                                  109.1        24.3        50.0         50.0        50.0         25.0        25.0         25.0        25.0
Costs relating to INVI                                 418.2
Repayment of IDB loan                                  309.2       404.1       406.3        408.6       410.8        413.1       415.4        417.8       420.1
Payments to Bank of Guatemala
Increave in other assets                                 2.7         9.5
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                2.375.0      5,206.1     4,oo8.3    16,713.5    22,625.0    14,770.9       3,429.4     4,190.8      4.970.1
Increase (decrease) in cash                              142.2     2,649.4    (1,166.8)      (307.7)    1,187.9        728.1      (513.8)        66.2     1,359.9
Cash, beginning of year                                  455-5       597.7     3,247.1      2,080.3     1,772.6      2,60.5      3,688.6     3,174.8      3,241.0
Cash, end of year                                        597.7     3,247.1     2,080.3      1,772.6     2,960.5      3,688.6     3,174.8     3,241.0      4,600.9



GUATEMAIA
RANCO NACIONAL DE IA VIVENDA
INCOME STATEKFNTS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
(thousand Q.)
-Actual                                                          Forecast
1974          1975           1976           1977          1978           1979           1980           1981           1982
Revenue
Interest and cammissions                             1,357.2        1,734.9       2,258.0        2,486.0        2,709.0       2,946.0        3,306.0        3,680.o        4,134.o
Other                                                  279.5          390.3         429.3          472.2          519.4         571.3          628.4          691.2          760.3
Reconstruction loans                                                                                                                           301.0          398.6          375.7
i,636.7                                     ______2        33,527.4                               4      ,5 769.-8 5270.
Expenses
Interest and ecamissions                               210.9         477.2          755.4          772.7          877.6       1,005.0        1,137.5        1,272.6        1,429.4
Salaries and other personnel costs                     902.0        1,043.9       1,200.5        1,320.6        1,452.7        1,598.0       1,917.6        2,109.4        2,320.3
General expenses                                       823.7         791.1          870.2          913.7          959.4       1,007.4        1,108.1        1,163.5        1,221.7
Depreciation and amortization                           63.3          55.2           70.4           75.4           80.4          84.1           7  4           81.2           83.7
1,999.9 -   2,367.4                         387424 6
Operating inccse (loss)                                (363.2)       (242.2)        (209.2)        (124.2)        (141.7)        (177.2)         (7.2)          143.1          214.9
Other expenseS - net                                     25.8           26.3
Net income (loss)                                      (389.0)        (268.5)       (209.2)        (124.2)        (141.7)        (177.2)         (7-2)          143.1          214.9
Total revenue an % of average total assets (ATA)           -            5.4            6.1            5.5            4.4            3.8           4.3             4.7            5.1
Financial expenses as % of ATA                             _            1.2            1.7            1.4            1.2           1.1            1.2             1.3            1.4
Gross spread as % of ATA                                  _             4.2            4.4            4.1            3.2           2.7            3.1             3.4            3.7
Other expenses as % of ATA                                 _            4.9            4.8            4.3            3.4           2.9            3.1             3.3            3.5
Net income as % of ATA                                                  (.7)           (.4)           (.2)          (.2)           (.2)                            .1             .2
Net operating ratio (%)                                  123.8         112.6          107.8          104.2         104.4          105.0          100.2           97.0           95.9
Interest & ccmsission inerme as % of average
loans outstanding L                                      -            7.3%           8.0%           7.9%          7.9%           8.1%           8.4%           8.4%           8.4%
Financial expenses as % of average deposits
and borrowings Lf    -                                                2.9%           4.4%           4.1%          4.3%           4.4%           4.5%           4.7'%          4.7%
Return on equity                                                                        -              -             -              -                             .5%
/a  Excluding Reconstruction Loans.
7  Excluding the Bank of Guatemala contribution on which there is no interest charge.



APPENDIX 6
GUATEMALA
APPRAISAL OF THE EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX: URBAN SITES AND SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT COMPONENT
Estimated Schedule for Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and                         Cumulative Disbursements
Quarter                                   At End of Quarter
(US$ Thousand)
1976-1977
December 31, 1976                                    300
March 31, 1977                                     1,500
June 30, 1977                                      3,000
1977-1978
September 30, 1977                                 4,500
December 31, 1977                                  6,400
March 31, 1978                                     8,200
June 30, 1978                                     10,400
1978-1979
September 30, 1978                                12,700
December 31, 1978                                 14,400
March 31, 1979                                    16,100
June 30, 1979                                     17,300
1979-1980
September 30, 1979                                18,600
December 31, 1979                                 19,800
March 31, 1980                                    20,000






IBRD 12227
S-> t te g ts $ < A lXt X n! Jtei;- A/ vB~~~~~~~~~~~~ Industrial and commercial areas
T.                                                        902_Main roads
'dw l rS '~~~~_i_'_    \  O Earth roads                                                                                                     1       2         3         4        s
r   1   F w ,  j  \+          < ,   ,(z                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~{----4---+ Railroads                        KILOMETERS
/   i    eS  5 /  \  i [> c   >t   ., .\.:i;, U                                        1500~~voa---    Elevation contours(meters)     ,              !              ,2      3________________
/ 1 ( ( iX 0 ., ...... A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
ro puorro Son oso     To Ao,oFt,ton      Tllo V1vConooos           To Puderto ion JosS                      9  3                                                                                 9Z
W~~~~~-



- -----



j1p~~~~~~~~~~~  . 90- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD-12261
A  El a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RC 
Cul                                                         an Juatn ntotn                                                                                                                      Lv nsto h
de Verapoz~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Se o~
~~~~S Lorenz~~~~~~~~o~~                   Cubulco                                                            Ro Hondo~~~~ocoIj  ~ O  
io                                               Son Pe,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ttod                                   
ct                                                                                                                     San~~~~~~omIo  aD~5      LvAos6~t                                                R~
co  I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ 
Coatepeq.e                                                                                                                                                                               iJ-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
P ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~SnJs JIP                                                                                                4           r
P   A    C?  (  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   A    N                     LoptipRe  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~                  ~snnpl
R2                                                                      ~                                                                                 ~    \~~                                                                         A57






16'                              90
2<  Ott-ttt&  Th  bo-darie  sh-w  on this -tp do not
A~~BELZE      -   im~~~~ply eno ..eno ..ccept.nce ho the
UATEMGATMLAAOAe
Gua~ ~ ~ ~~~~~AGa6 
A~~~~~
co R ~ ~ ~ ~ U 
GU ATEMALAL
CITY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
AmI-s
6~~~~~~~~Ga6
/5  ~~~~~                                                                          s~~~~'~
El Progreso4                                                                  ~        6
Chuarrancho ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0                                                                                                                        (a






!E   - crbee  Sea                                                                          GUATEMALA
ATEMA   -                                                                               SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
'GUAT5MAA<F   - :San Rafael La Laguna AreQ
-  5 4 :   -                                                           PHASING OF STAGE I SITES
Project areas
-at/Ac Gcsi,  ea  eF B                  =      >=< -.                            a-    Exist ng BANVI project
.   roads
?AAMj                             -
Tnf han5mw   hor. 'I n his m>an  Lb--:_. =.--J
1STir/I sank an  !{to auta/SreT  i-  r, fi.i:, , ..........r ...-r
k i
'V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
5$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
SANYkA
0  iyo  2?o       3?0     ~~~~455   550                                                                                                 o
Meshe           '                           It;     >.ra>/
5   O0/     200     390)    450                                 1I                                                                        -
,su,                                 -                                                                                    I N
01~r                                                            <   n     /
YARDS>XTX                                                                   






EXST N    BA V   SITESE                                                                                                       AL
AND SERVICES PROJECT
S- RSfan L. LLg                                                                                                                       L n
s                                                                                                             GUATEMALA
1~~~~~~~~~ ~~~SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
San Rafael La Laguna V
PRELIMINARY LAYOUT
i                                                                                                         Prototypical lot clusterings
Ca:-ibbean Sea                                                                     LLII    | | |     || | | | | Typical lot distribution
''t .i. :!j5-   iQ'   ,                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Open spaces
Commercial sites and buildings
Guael noI?emrJlo  fR.      uI                                                                                  iu..7i.j Existing roads
Ei SALVAOO>-    e        8                    -,                                       _      _               =;  Project roads and parking
. ,,  z   \            ,-                                       FRinver
*'rCOSTA                          .               _                          ----      Area boundary
0    50         05o       15         200
t                                                                              METERS               2g
PANAMA'-=                       5'-i,,s,d,ay,,f|SRt                       0         50l     YAED       I_    200






ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE BANCO NACIOHAL DE LA VIVIENDA
2 = 4 I-----1-----------------------------------F---------------------------------------------------
-----~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~~ ._ ----------  - ----------------------------------  --_____             ------_-----   -------------- ---------
*                                           vt                                 t   S            L  41  F 1   1 1RF  |              2                6FADE CC|    X
.U    I    I               I-I                       I           11               -  iA11 I                                  X
--I-                                                                                               ---< ;;   -'  D   8   07   *a j A  [t
------------------------------------                      ->---------   -------------                            -------------------






GUATEMALA
APPRAISAL OF THE EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1976                                      1977                                       1978                                       1979
PROCESS
_               ~     ~    ~    ~~1  2  3        4         1          2          3         4          1          2         3          4          i          2         3          4
SITE ANALYSIS
LAND ACQUISITION                           A          _
DETAILED ENGINEERING AND                       "An
FINAL APPROVALS                          .                                     __ 
BIDDiNG AND AWARDS                                                                     -                           - _  _
CIVIL WORKS CONSTRUCTION                                                          .                                            - _         -
CONSTRUCTION OF BASIC                                                  WJAz   VW  O
DWELLINGS                                                              .                                                            *
MATERIAL LOANS                                                                ,                                                                            - C   _  _ _           m _
LOT OCCUPANCY                                                               J                                                                     -    _
OFF  SITE INFRASTRUCTURE                                                      ,                                                                    - -
P'A-  X STAGE I  -2,400 units
STAGE If -4,300 units
-111 _ STAGE III -3,300 units
TOTAL   -10,000 units                                                                                                                                                         World Bank--16092






GUATEMALA
APPRAISAL OF THE EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE-STAGE I SAN REFAEL LAGUNA "V"
1976                                   1977                         1978
PROCESS
1     ~~2       3         4         1         2         3        4         1         2
SITE IDENTIFICATION                   ,   v                                  ///  ///////
LAND ACQUISITION                                                             /// ///////
PRELIMINARY DESIGN                    ,// ,-J/c/,-                           /// ///////
TOPOGRAPHIC SURVEY                                                           /// /////
/X   /////                            /// ////////
DETAILED ENGINEERING                                                         /// /////
TENDER DOCUMENTS &                    ,'/ n-,,,      .                       //, ///////
IBRD APPROVAL                         /// ///                                /// /////
/// z///////z1 ~/// //////,
PUBLICATION                           /-/ ////    a                          /, ///////
BIDS AND EVALUATION// //////                                                 /// /////
COBNSTR U CTEION                      /// ///////                            /// /////
o// o////// ~~~/// //////,
CONSTRUCTiON                ~~~~/// t/////7/                        /// / / / /   iwbr//
a. EARTHWORKS                         /// ///////            ./// //////
b. INFRASTRUCTURE                    /// /////7/
c. CORE UNIT CONS.                    v/                                stars _ 
d. COMMUNITY FACILITIES               ,./ ,//,//,/ //v //r
MATERIALS LOANS                       ,/,   /                       _                           Fri  W#A
LOT OCCUPANCY                         /// ///////
OFF--SITE INFRASTRUCTURE              /// /////7/                             /// ///////
a. VVATER                                                    PM"t///     w9// /   ///
b' ACCESS ROADS                       /// ///////                            /// ///////
c. SCHOOLS                            /// ///////                            // / //
d. OTHER                              "      "  / / /                            //'// 
PHASE I- 1,000 units
rA'4ASAPHASE II- 1,400 units
World Bank-16093






PROTOTYPICAL PLOT CLUSTER
vehicular access street
parking |                                      Oz      
open space (Small park)           _
| _ [1111 
pedestrian footpathat-
S g L g B 2 B 2 2 L 2 g S m j |~parking
vehicular access street
prototype area = 2.24ha
residential lots (private)  = 1.50ha    = 67.2%
circulation areas (public) = 0.45ha. = 20.0%
open space (public)    = 0.28ha    = 12.8%
W             ISERVICE LEVEL I, plot: 75m2 _ 81m2    = 6%
ISERVICE LEVEL II, plot: 81m2             = 52%
VA       ISERVICE LEVEL IlI, plot: 81m2             = 40%
F      J  SERVICE LEVEL I, plot: 94m2 - 10m2  = 2%
(potential for Commercial/residential use)
World Bank-16127






SERVICE LEVEL OPTIONS
l      ------- -----------------------------n
1                     ~~~~~~~~future                                  1         ~ 
I-  i       I                  permanent                                                           I    i
a-  r;I     I                  dwelling                                       I                    I
u- zi                I                                                                       temporary      I    I
_;o I uu I                                                                      I      shelter       I    |
uii ;                                                                                  by owner      I    I
uu   F:             ._.. infrastructure connections
u                        (water meter & sewerage)                                  _
Ii,         -                                    SERVICE LEVEL I
I                           ~~       ~~~~~~~~~2  2
I O                            75m  _ 81m  plot witP. nfrastructure connections
1-
I   :       |             future
*              ~~~~~permanent dwellingr -                                          -I
sanitary core                                   I      temporary
-  -------- _____ _                                shelter
* i  ;   _            , |                             l      by owner       I
I                        4 si;t  1@    _ _ -  ;pEI,;;storm drain  I  _           I
SERVICE LEVEL 11
plot with 5.6m2 sanitary core
26.8m2 basic
dwelling unit
I           I_ __ i--e--                                     -        - --------            --I
I                       8                         - SERVICE LEVEL III
I   /                             plot with basic dwelling unit (partially completed)
I               - - ---- - -                                      ,- - ---
9m2       '       9M2        | |      patio
I   I             original                        room               room       9
basic dwelling          *                                    9
-   -    -   - -   -      -   - -ass - 
|    i   i555555'55_                                                                        9 12m
3;      rt~    n   I    rl]   -$  3r                courtyard              I       room
|   |   //                        EXAMPLE OF POSSIBLE DWELLING EXPANSION
I                                                 I - (by self-help)
World 6ank-16t28






(B) E D U C A T I O N C O M P O N E N T






GUATEtALA
TECHNICAL ANNEX
EDUCATION COMPONENT
TAELE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Earthquake Damage                                                 1
The Project                                                       2
Primary Schools                                                   3
Secondary Schools                                                 3
Cost of the Project                                               4
Administration and Implementation                                 4
Professional and Architectural Services                           5
Project Implementation Schedule                                   5
Sites                                                             5
Maintenance                                                       6
Disbursements                                                     6
Benefits                                                           7
A,.renerint.s Reached                                             7
ANNEXES
1. Summary of Costs
2. Contingency Allowances
3.  Project Implementation Schedule
4. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD 12294



ABBREVIATIONS
BANVI            Banco Nacional de la Vivienda
(National Housing Bank)
CEEP             Unidad Ejecutora de Construcci6n y Equipamiento
del Proyecto de Extension y Mejoramiento de la
Educacion Primaria
(Implementation Unit for Constructlon and
Equipment of the Project for Extension and
Improvement of Primary Education)
PEMEM            Proyecto de Extension y Mejoramiento
del Nivel de la Ensefnanza Media
(Implementation Unit for Second Educetion Project)
USAID            United States Agency for International Development



GUATEMALA
EDUCATION COMPONENT
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.        This report appraises the education component of the reconstruction
project, which consists of the following items:
(a) thirteen primary schools in Guatemala City (4,320 places)
to replace destroyed schools;
(b) fourteen primary schools in Guatemala City (3,360 places)
to provide primary education facilities in new residential
areas to be constructed through assistance by the sites
and services component of the project; and
(c) five lower secondary schools in Guatemala City and pro-
vincial cities (2,640 places) to replace destroyed
secondary schools.
The report is based on a preparation/appraisal mission which visited Guatemala
in April 1976. The mission members were L. Wolff (education planner) and
D. Shoesmith (architect, consultant).
Earthquake Damage
2.        Primary Education.  In Guatemala City, about 13 public primary
schools (grades 1 to 6) serving almost 8,000 students were destroyed or so
severely damaged that they cannot be repaired. Eight of these schools were
in rented buildings which the government intends to replace by new buildings
on publicly-owned land. An additional 22 schools serving about 14,000 students
were damaged but can be repaired. Schools serving about 82,000 students were
not damaged. The government has been able to provide schooling to children
from damaged or destroyed facilities through triple and quadruple sessions
in undamaged schools. Repair of schools, already being undertaken by private
owners of rented school facilities, should reduce significantly the number of
students on multiple sessions and provide a tolerable educational environment
while replacement schools are constructed.
3.        Outside Guatemala City, primary schools in urban areas serving 9,000
students were reported as destroyed. Data on rural schools are not yet avail-
able but estimates of their destruction run very high, since most were of
adobe construction. USAID is assisting in reconstruction of primary schools
outside Guatemala City, through a grant of US$1 million for surplus Navy pre-
fabricated buildings which will be adapted for use as primary schools, and
through future loan assistance.



4.        Secondary Education.  In Guatemala City, three public secondary
schools (grades 7 to 12) serving 4,400 students (out of a total of 25,000
public school students in Guatemala City) were destroyed or damaged so
severely that they cannot be repaired. About 14 other public secondary
schools were damaged but can be repaired. All students are in school at
this time, but many are on triple or quadruple shifts. This situation is
being alleviated as repairs are made to existing schools and as the des-
troyed schools, with assistance from the government, are being provided
with temporary teaching sheds. The Bank would provide assistance to con-
struct two schools with space on a two-shift basis for about 3,700 lower
secondary school students, but would not provide assistance to accomodate
approximately 700 upper secondary school students in one school who are pre-
paring to be urban primary school teachers. The system has been seriously
over-producing these teachers (2,440 trained in 1974, while only 215 teaching
positions were available). The government should be able to provide tempo-
rary accomodation to these students while it would review and propose changes
in the teacher training system.
5.        Outside Guatemala City, eight secondary schools with a total en-
rollment of 2,500 were destroyed or cannot be repaired. Classes have re-
sumed in all these institutions through the utilization of primary school
buildings and construction of temporary wooden sheds. The Bank would pro-
vide assistance to replace three lower secondary schools (grades 7 to 9) in
Salama, El Progreso and Chichicastenango. The other five schools would not
be assisted because: (a) a replacement for one school is already planned in
the Second Education Project; (b) three schools have less than 120 students
and little prospect for enrollment increases to allow for efficient space
and teacher utilization; and (c) one rural teacher training school faces
major problems regarding staff qualifications and curriculum, and may be
assisted by another agency which has been working in rural education.
6.        Accompanied by a representative from the Ministry of Education
and by a structural engineer from the Project Unit of the Second Education
Project (PEMEM), the appraisal mission visited the sites of all except one
of the severely damaged primary or secondary schools to determine whether
they could be repaired or would need to be replaced. In some cases, the
mission concluded that schools which the government had previously proposed
to replace could be repaired at a fraction of their replacement cost.
The Project
7.        The education component of the project consists of construction of
(i) 13 primary schools in Guatemala City to replace those destroyed by the
earthquake; (ii) 14 primary schools in Guatemala City to be part of the
sites and services component of the project; and (iii) five lower secondary
schools in Guatemala City and provincial cities to replace schools destroyed
by the earthquake.



-3-
Primary Schools
8.        Thirteen primary schools (4,320 places) serving 8,640 students on
a double shift basis would replace schools destroyed by the earthquake. On
the basis of present information, it is estimated that nine would provide
240 places; three would provide 480 places; and one replacement of a large
school would provide 720 places in a multi-story building. The government
is now undertaking detailed studies of the catchment areas of the destroyed
schools and of potential new sites which may result in the division of some
of the larger schools into smaller schools or in the merger of two smaller
schools; thus while the number of places provided would remain constant at
4,320 the actual number of schools to be constructed may vary according to
the results of these studies. Each primary school would consist of a basis
classroom block or blocks, administrative spaces, a storeroom, and a library.
Equipment provided would be modest--about US$10 per student. New furniture
would be provided to all the schools, since the furniture saved from the
destroyed schools was in very poor condition.
9.        Fourteen primary schools (3,360 places) serving 6,720 students on a
double shift basis would be constructed to provide educational facilities for
children of families in the residential areas to be constructed through assis-
tance from the sites and services component of the project. These schools
would all be of a 240 place size. Ten of these schools would consist of a
single classroom block, administrative spaces, a storeroom, and a library.
Four of the schools (or one in each zone of the sites and services project)
would also include basic workshop and home economics spaces to be utilized
by students from neighboring schools and adults in non-formal training
programs.
Secondary Schools
10.       The five lower secondary schools to be constructed would replace
destroyed schools and provide for modest enrollment increases through inten-
sive use of school facilities in double shifts. In Guatemala City, one 960
place school would be constructed to replace the lower secondary facilities
of a school destroyed by the earthquake. A second school of 600 places would
replace two smaller destroyed schools; this school would effectively serve
960 students per shift, since it would be located on the same site where a
common facilities center would be constructed as part of the second education
project and would utilize the laboratories and workshops to be part of the
center. Outside Guatelama City, three 360 place schools would be constructed
in El Progreso, Salama, and Chichicastenango. These schools would utilize
the same curriculum as the schools to be constructed under the second educa-
tion project and would benefit from the curriculum develpment and technical
assistance activities supported under the second education project. All the
schools except the 600 place school in Guatemala City would be available for
non-formal education and training activities.



-4-
Cost of the Project
11.       The estimated cost of the project is US$6.7 million--including
US$3.4 million for prLmary school construction, US$3.1 million for secondary
school construction, and US$.2 million for project administration. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$2.3 million or 34%. The
detailed breakdown by type of expenditure is shown in Annex 1.
12.       The base costs are based on prices estimated as of December, 1976.
Added to these are contingency allowances for (a) unforeseen physical increases
equal to 10% of base costs for construction and (b) price escalation likely to
occur during the implementation period (Annex 2). Price escalation for
construction of 15% for 1976 was taken into account in arriving at the base
cost. The contingency allowance for construction in 1977 is 15%, and Bank
guidelines of 12% for 1978 and 1979 were followed.
13.       The estimated unit construction cost of one story buildings for
primary schools is US$75/sq. meter and for secondary schools US$95/sq. meter;
the estimated cost per sq. meter of a multi-story primary school to be con-
structed is about US$120/sq. meter. A local cost adjustment ranging from 5%
to 10% has been made for secondary schools outside the Guatemala City area to
allow for differences in cost of transportation and building materials, as
well as the availability of local skilled labor. The construction cost
estimates are based on current unit costs of a constructional system for
primary schools developed by the government with assistance from USAID. This
system would be used for the primary schools and with appropriate modifica-
tions it would also be utilized for the secondary schools in the project. The
system is based on the repetitive use of simple steel frames   with concrete
block walls. Application to secondary schools would result in a shorter
design and construction period with estimated savings of 30% over conventional
brick and reinforced concrete construction.
14.       Furniture costs are based on a review of the costs of the second
education project and of recently completed primary schools.
Equipment costs are similarly based and include providing a minimum amount
of equipment to primary schools. Also included are the costs of additional
personnel for the two project units at an estimate of US$200,000.
Administration and Implementation
15.       The project unit of the Second Education Project (PEMEM), located
within the Ministry of Communications and Public Works, would administer
the secondary schools program; it would be expanded by the appointment of
an architect, an engineer, and supporting personnel to handle the increased
workload. A second implementation unit (CEEP), located in the same Ministry,
would administer the primary schools component. Currently CEEP has re-
sponsibilities for administering the USAID assisted rural primary school
project, which it has accomplished with distinction. CEEP would also be



expanded by appointment of an architect, engineer, draftsman, and procure-
ment officer to accommodate its additional responsibilities. Conditions
of disbursement for the education component of the project would be (i) the
appointment of the additional personnel necessary for implementation of
the project by CEEP and (ii) fulfillment of the conditions for effectiveness
of the Second Education Project.
Professional and Architectural Services
16.       Executive architects who would provide professional services to
develop the project would be appointed on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank. Coincidental with preparation of architects' briefs PEMEM
would undertake a study of the constructional system described in para.
13 to determine modifications necessary for its application to secondary
schools. Technical review committees established under the second education
project and including representatives from the Ministry of Education and the
project units would analyze and review architectural designs and equipment and
furniture lists and specifications and certify that they meet economic and
functional standards and costs and the educational objectives of each project
institution.
Project Implementation Schedule
17.       The project would be implemented over a period of three and a half
years. Construction of the primary schools for the areas to be served by
the sites and services component of the project would be phased with the
three-year implementation period of that component. Design work for the 13
schools to replace those destroyed would begin as soon as sites have been
identified and steps initiated for transfer of title. Since this process
is time-consuming, it is anticipated that construction of most of these
schools would begin in 1977 and be completed by December 1978; schools would
be ready for occupancy for the 1979 school year. Design and construction of
the secondary schools would take place over a three and a half-year period.
To assist in the effective and timely execution of the project, an implemen-
tation schedule has been prepared (Annex 3). This schedule was discussed
during negotiations and mutually agreed upon as a project implementation and
monitoring tool.
Sites
18.       The government has initiated a study to identify the catcbment
areas of the 13 destroyed primary schools and to identify potential sites
for reconstruction. Sites for the 14 schools to serve the areas of the
sites and services component would be provided in the master plan and BANVI
would deed the land to the Ministry of Education as and when needed. In
Guatemala City, two acceptable secondary school sites have been identified;
one must be purchased and legal issues regarding the second must be resolved
or an alternative found. The proposed sites for secondary schools in
El Progreso and Chichicastenango are both acceptable and government-owned.



- 6 -
The proposed site in Salama would be acceptable if a more appropriate site
on the outskirts of the city cannot be identified. The government has pro-
vided assurances that all sites for both primary and secondary schools would
be identified and acquired by January 1, 1977.
19.       Contracts for civil works would be awarded to pre-qualified bidders
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures acceptable to the Bank. Announcements would be made in the
national press and foreign contractors would not be excluded from prequalifi-
cation. Construction contracts would be grouped in packages of US$3-400,000
in order to attract contractors with adequate management expertise and equip-
ment. Current emergency procedures which shorten the time required for
awarding of contracts would be applied to the project.
20.       Contracts for furniture and equipment would be awarded on the basis
of international bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. However, furni-
ture and equipment that cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$50,000
would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with the
Borrower's regular procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank.
It is estimated that procurement under these procedures would not in aggregate
exceed 15% of the cost of furniture and equipment or about US$165,000.
Maintenance
21.        The government has given assurances that it will provide adequate
funds for replacement of used materials and for maintenance of project
schools. These funds for maintenance would be equivalent to one percent
of the replacement costs of project institutions for the first four years,
and one and one-half percent of the replacement costs thereafter.
Disbursements
22.        The education component of the proposed loan would be US$4.2
million and would cover the foreign exchange component and 44% of the
local currency costs. It would be equivalent to 63% of the total cost of
the education component of US$6.7 million. The loan would be disbursed over
a period of three and a half years (Annex 4). Retroactive financing not
exceeding US$50,000 is recommended for expenditures made since June 1,
1976, for professional services and project administration.
Benefits and Risks
23.        The benefits of the project would accrue to the more disadvantaged
sections of the population. The 13 destroyed primary schools in Guatemala
City were all located in poorer parts of the city. The 14 schools to be built
in the areas of the sites and services component would serve poor families,
especially those whose homes were destroyed by the earthquake. The secondary
schools to be constructed in Guatemala City would serve a relatively less



advantaged population, since most middle and upper class students attend
private schools which account for 50% of total secondary school enrollment in
Guatemala City; the secondary schools to be constructed outside Guatemala City
would assist in providing greater educational opportunities outside the
capital. There are no special risks with regard to this project.
Agreements Reached
24.       During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points: (i) utilization in the secondary schools to be constructed
of the same curriculum as the schools to be constructed under the second
education project and the integration of these schools into the curriculum
development and technical assistance activities supported under the second
education project (para. 10); (ii) availability of all secondary schools
except the 600 place school in Guatemala City for non-formal education
and training activities (para. 10); (iii) designation of CEEP as the imple-
menting unit responsible for the primary school component of the project
(para. 15); (iv) identification and acquisition of all sites, except those
to be included in the areas of the sites and services component of the
project, by January 1, 1977 (para. 18); (v) application to the project of
emergency procedures which shorten the time required for award of contracts
(para. 19); and (vi) adequate provision of funds for maintenance of project
schools (para. 21).
25.       Conditions of disbursement for the education component of the
project would be (i) the appointment to CEEP of the additional personnel
necessary for implementation of the project and (ii) fulfillment of the
conditions for effectiveness of the Second Education Project (para. 15).



:



GUATEMALA
Education Component, Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Suesoary of Costa (as of Dlecember 31. 1976) (I Quetzal = IU85)
Price
Construction                                                 Price                                              Contingencies
Student         Gross             and            Physical            Professional        Contingencies                                        (furniture               Project
Places         area m2       Site Works          Contingency              Fees          (construction)       Furniture        Ecuipment        and eLuipment)    Administration          Total
(10%)                                   (19%)                                                (15%)
Primary Education
24 single st .ry schools      6,960          24,395            1,830 000           183,000          221 000               412,000          139 000            I42,000           42                                     29 
Iulti-story school             720           2,055             267 000tL          25,000            30,000                45,000           15.000              7,000            3000                                  '392000
Secondarv Education
El Progresso                     360          2,590              258,000          26,000             31,000                58,000           28,800             94,200           15,000                                   511,000
Chichicastenango                 360          2,590              271,000          27,000             33,000                61,000           28,800             94,200           15,000                                   530,000
Salama                           360          2,590              271,000          27,000             33,000                61,000           28,800             94,200           15,000                                   530,000
Guatemala, Zone 13               960          5,485              521,000          52,000             63,000               161,000           67,500            187,500           54,000                                 1,106,000
Guatemala, Zone 2                600-/        2,560              243,000          24,000             30,000                66,000           39,300             31,500           12,200                                   444,000
Proiect Administration                                                                                                                                                                               200,000               200,000
TOTAL                                            3,661,000          364,000            441,000               864,000          346,200            650,OO         155,200              21,0D10             6,682,000
Foreign Exchange Component                                         915,000          91,000            Il0,p00               216,000          183,000            586.000         115,000               40,000             2,256,000
. of total                                               25              25                 25                    25               53                 90               74                  20                    34
I/  Total effective number of places to be constructed (without laboratories and workshops).  960 students per session would be served by this school
and a common facilities center to be constructed under the second education project.
2/ Includes cost of demolition.



GUATEMALA
Education Component, Earthquake Reconstruction Project
ContinRencies Allowances tQuetzales '000 or US$'000)
Construction and             Professional                                                                                   Project
Site Works                    Fees                          Furniture                    Equipment                  Administration                      Total
Local          Foreign        Local          Foreign        Local          Foreisn         Loca            orein         Local          Foreipn         Local          FreiRn                      Total
Physical Increase %             10              10            -               -                              -                                              _                           8               5                           7
Price Increase %                19              19            19              19            15               15           15              15             -                -            18              17                          18
Base                         2746              915           331             110           163             183           65              586           160              40          3465             1834                       5299
Project Costs
Physical Increase             273               91            -               -              -               -             -               -             -                -          273               91                        364
Base Project Costs Plus      3019             1006           331             110           163             183            65             586           160              40          3738             1934                       5662
Physical Increase
Price Increase                584              195            64              21            25               29           10              91            -                 -           683             336                       1019
Total Contingencies           857              285            64              21            25               29           10              91            -                 -           956             427                        1383
Total Project Cost           3603            101            395             131           188             212            75             677           160              40          4421             2261                       6682
Foreign and Local               75              25            75              25            47               53           10              90            80              20             66               34                       100
Comp-nents %



GUATEYALA
ANNEX 3
Education Component, Earthquake Reconstruction Project
Implementation Schedule
Calemidar Year     Pt. 1976                      1977                            1978                         1979
PRIMARY SCHOOLS
24 single story      ite selection
schools
(systems construct-         Appt.of Acquisition
ion)                      archts
Design. &contract doets.
Bid & Adjudica ion
Constr ction. 3 x 480 Dlace schools
x240 nlace schools!
5 x 240 place schools
4 x 240 place schools
Replacement of       Demolition &
Landivar School       Site clearanc
(multi-story  non-
system construction lAppt.of archt.
Design & contract doets.
Bid & Adjudication
Construction
SECONDARY SCOOS    Site  elec
Aeiiion
Appt. of
archts.
Study
.i- _ ~l-r.rt docts.
Bid &_Adjudica ion
Cont ctiom. 3x360 place enhool.
1 x 680 place school
1   90 Paee school



ANNEX 4
GUATEMALA
Education Component, Earthquake Reconstrrction Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements (US$1000,OOOs)
FISCAL
YEARS &                                fISBURSEMENTS                          UNDISBURSED
SEXESTERB                  SEKI-ANNUAL             CUMULATIVE                   BALANCE
US$M       %          US$M                       US$M        _
1976
2nd                        -                                                4.2        100
1977
1st                       .1       2              .1        2               4.1          98
2nd                       .3       7              .4       10               3.8          90
1978
1st                       .8      19            1.2        29               3.0          71
2nd                      1.5      36            2.7        64               1.5          36
1979
lst                       1.0     24             3.7       88                 .5         12
2nd                        .3      7            4.0        95                .2           5
1980
1st                        .2      5             4.2      100                 0           0
2nd
Total                       4.2    100



IBR D-12 294
Pop"~~~~~~~~ 
Ssd 'ui, ~ ~  ~     ~    -                                LVEJMAC
~~~  0Nennin  BARDS                                                                                                                    LVIVpDSVIS o4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P RT BRRO
4~~~~~t  V~~~~~~~~VVL~~~~~~~  ~~~~~PUERTO AVARiOS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~So7m
Cuilco,  4         on Juan Cotzal~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ f t~ 
a                            % ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
AMC    ~          l 
xchiguan-                                                                                                                               L,



---



(C) P O R T  R E H A B I L I T A T I O N   C O M P O N E N T






GUATEMALA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.   INTRODUCTION .        .......................................     1
2.   BACKGROUND .........................................              2
A.   The Transport Sector ..........................             2
B.   Railway and Port Subsectors ....         ...............    3
C.   The Effects of the Earthquake ....        .............     4
3.   THE PROJECT ....... ..................                            5
A.   Description and Cost Estimates ....        ............      5
B.   Project Execution, Procurement and Disbursement             7
C.   Financing .....................................             9
D.   Ecology ........       ...............................     10
4.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .............................             10
A.   Traffic Patterns and Port Capacity ....       ........     10
B.   Short Term Alternatives .....         ..................   11
C.   Other Factors ..................                           11
D.   Project Risk ..................................            12
E.   Conclusion .......        .............................    12
5.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....        ..........     12
TABLES
1.   Exports and Imports by Mode - First Half of 1975
2.   Traffic Statistics and Forecasts for the Atlantic Ports
3.   Project Cost Estimates
4.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEXES
1.   Outline Terms of Reference for Engineering Studies
2.   Execution Schedule for Port Works
3.   Economic Justification - Discussion of Short Term Alternatives
CHART
Puerto Barrios Port Facilities and Project Site
MAP
IBRD 11953 - Guatemala - Transportation Network






GUATEMALA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Guatemala has requested the Bank's help in finan-
cing its reconstruction program following the recent earthquake disaster.
Along with the housing and education sectors, the transport sector was iden-
tified as one of the areas where Bank assistance was to be considered. As a
result of the earthquake, the railway-owned port of Puerto Barrios on the
Atlantic was destroyed, and the Atlantic Highway leading to it from Guatemala
City was damaged and temporarily closed to heavy traffic. This seriously af-
fected the import and export of goods that were forced to use alternate routes
at a much higher cost. The highway has now been reopened to heavy traffic on
a temporary basis, and a more permanent rehabilitation effort will be under-
taken with the help of the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and other
financial institutions. On the port side, although there is no bottleneck at
present due to the existence of slack capacity in the neighboring port of
Santo Tomas, some additional interim facilities have to be provided until a
major capacity-increasing facility can be built and operated.
1.02      The proposed project, therefore, consists of a limited rehabilita-
tion of Puerto Barrios to provide sufficient port capacity on the Atlantic
for the next three to four years and a technical assistance program designed
to help Guatemala in preparing its port expansion plan on a sound basis and
in setting up appropriate port institutions. The project cost is estimated
at US$2.8 million, of which the Bank loan would finance 76%, or US$2.3 million,
corresponding to the estimated foreign exchange component.
1.03      This would be the second Bank loan to Guatemala for transportation.
The first (Loan 124-GU, US$18.2 million), made in 1955, was to assist in
completing the construction of 435 km of the main trunk highway system (Atlantic
and Pacific highways) and in executing a three-year maintenance program. The
project was completed in 1960, about two years behind schedule, except for the
maintenance component, which was not satisfactorily implemented until 1964.
There has been no lending for transportation since then, although port and
highway identification missions were sent to Guatemala in 1968 and 1969. The
proposed limited port rehabilitation loan would afford the Bank an oppor-
tunity to renew its collaboration with Guatemala in the transport field.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of two Bank missions:  the
first, consisting of Messrs. M. Blanc (economist), E. Frankel (consultant),
and E. Pinilla (engineer), visited Guatemala in March 1976; the second,
consisting of Mr. R. Scheiner (engineer/consultant), visited Guatemala in
May 1976. The report has been edited by Ms. V. Foster.



2. BACKGROUND
A. The Transport Sector
2.01      Guatemala's transport system consists of the following three major
transport corridors (Map IBRD 11953):
(a) the Transoceanic rail and road corridor, which runs from
the port of San Jose on the Pacific to the ports of Puerto
Barrios and Santo Tomas on the Atlantic, and which includes
the highly trafficked middle section between Guatemala City
and Escuintla;
(b) the Pacific Highway rail and road corridor, which goes from
the Mexican border to the Salvadorean border; and
(c) the Central American Highway, which winds around on the high-
lands from border to border, north of the above corridor.
2.02      This rail and road intercity trunk network, which includes 2,619 km
of paved highways and 700 km of railways, is complemented by (a) an important
feeder and secondary road network about 11,300 km long; (b) two pipelines
(San Jose-Escuintla and a small one in Puerto Barrios); and (c) a system of
airports (one international and more than 20 general domestic aviation air-
strips).
2.03      Since there are no statistics for intercity freight transport, the
tonnages moving along these routes are not known precisely. However, total
intercity ton-km moved in 1973 can be estimated at about 3.2 billion, with
only about 5% moved by rail. Total exports and imports in 1975 can be esti-
mated, from Table 1, at about 2.4 million tons; 80% consists of international
trade taking place through the ports, which underscores the major role of
Guatemalan ports in foreign trade. The remaining 20% is regional trade with
the Central American countries and Mexico, taking place overland, mostly by
truck.
2.04      There is no Transportation Ministry in Guatemala.  The several
transport modes are managed by various departments and agencies responsi-
ble to different ministries and, in some cases, to the Presidency. Because
of this fragmentation of transport institutions and the fact that they relate
to different levels of the Government hierarchy, transport coordination and
policy-making are hampered at the sector level and can be effected only at
the highest level of Government. The Guatemalan Government is aware of the
difficulties and has been attempting to remedy them for some time, but with
very little progress so far. This project, which includes an organization
study for the port subsector, would constitute a step toward solving some of
the institutional problems mentioned in the following section.



-3-
B. Railway and Port Subsectors
2.05      Built toward the end of the last century, the Guatemalan railway
network was operated from about 1900 to 1968 by International Railways of
Central America (IRCA), an American firm which also controlled the ports
of Puerto Barrios on the Atlantic and San Jose on the Pacific. In December
1968, in the face of an increasing financial and social burden that IRCA
was no longer able to meet, the Government of Guatemala terminated the
IRCA concession and created an autonomous public enterprise, Ferrocarriles
de Guatemala (FEGUA), to take over the railroad and the Puerto Barrios port.
2.06      FEGUA is supervised by a five-member Board of Directors with over-
all responsibility in policy-making and planning. Three members are nomi-
nated by the President of the Republic (through the Minister of Economy),
and the other two are representatives, respectively, of the company's workers
and of private interests. The Board nominates the General Manager and the
Internal Auditor of FEGUA. FEGUA is more specifically dependent upon the
Minister of Economy regarding tariff setting and upon the Minister of Public
Finance regarding its financial operations. The FEGUA-owned port of Puerto
Barrios is operated as a division of FEGUA's Transport Department. This
rather low level of port management within the FEGUA hierarchy, and the fact
that the port was captive to the railways, have been generally prejudicial
to efficient, decentralized and autonomous port management.
2.07      The total FEGUA network comprises 770 route-km of single-track,
three-foot-gauge rail lines; the physical plant is generally poor and obsolete.
Since the creation of FEGUA in 1968, some improvements have been achieved,
e.g., reducing excess labor. However, the future of the railroad is still
uncertain since it is doubtful whether the required rehabilitation program
would be economically justified and whether sufficient funds could be assigned
to it.
2.08      For 30 years prior to nationalization, rail traffic followed a
decreasing trend. Since FEGUA's creation, a traffic recovery, particularly
of passengers, appears to have taken place, but the uncertainty of the statis-
tics calls for a cautious interpretation of the available figures. Total
freight traffic in 1974 was estimated at 776,000 metric tons and 155 million
ton-km, corresponding to an average haul of only about 200 km. In 1974,
passenger traffic totalled 1,663,000 passengers and 93 million pass-km,
corresponding to an average haul of only 56 km.
2.09      FEGUA's financial situation has generally accompanied the evolu-
tion of the traffic. The yearly deficit increased to US$3.8 million in 1968,
then went down to US$1.6 million in 1974 because of increased revenues and cost
savings achieved by reducing the labor force. Since FEGUA's accounts do not
separate the rail and port revenues and expenses, it is difficult to obtain
a clear picture of the profitability or loss of each of the separate activi-
ties. A crude analysis indicates that port activities in Puerto Barrios and
San Jose generate a substantial profit, which is more than offset by the
deficit of the railroad operations.



-4-
2.10       Guatemala has four main ports, two on the Atlantic - Santo Tomas
and Puerto Barrios - and two on the Pacific - San Jose and Champerico. Santo
Tomas and Champerico are run by two separate autonomous National Port Authori-
ties responsible to the Presidency through the Ministry of Public Finance,
while San Jose and Puerto Barrios come under the Transport Department of
FEGUA. Under the present structure, therefore, there is no single Ministry
or Government agency in Guatemala responsible for ports and shipping. Port
planning is usually done at the port level and is unsatisfactory because of
its limited scope and the lack of overall planning and coordination at the
national level.
2.11       The port of Puerto Barrios was equipped, before the earthquake, with
a four-berth finger pier, where ocean-going ships up to 9 m draft were accommo-
dated alongside. The wharf was accessible only by rail through an access
bridge - which has suffered only minor damages - and had very narrow aprons
which were fully occupied by rail lines. The port handled about 540,000 metric
tons in 1975 (Table 2). Almost all commodities were shipped to and from the
port by rail.
2.12       The port of Santo Tomas was constructed in 1955 at a location 10 km
southwest of Puerto Barrios to provide an Atlantic public user port at a time
when Puerto Barrios was a proprietary railway port. It is the only modern
port facility in Guatemala and presently consists of seven marginal berths
(914 m) with alongside drafts of 8.5 m. There is one roll-on/roll-off berth
and limited container-handling capacity. Total port traffic in 1975 was
1,040,000 metric tons. While the port is accessible by both rail and road,
rail facilities are minimal, and practically all cargo is handled by road.
Santo Tomas is planning an expansion of its facilities, particularly with
regard to container traffic, and has just contracted a feasibility study of
its expansion plan.
2.13       On the Pacific Coast, Champerico and San Jose are two lighterage
ports in rather decrepit state, with pier pilings wasted away and archaic
and damaged warehousing facilities. Each has four lighter berths and uses
30-35 ton lighters to unload ships anchored about 1 km offshore. In 1974,
San Jose handled 184,000 tons and Champerico 130,000 tons of general cargo
and semi-bulk goods. Both ports are very inadequate, and numerous studies
have been made over the last 12 years recommending the construction of a
deepwater port at various locations. However, no decision has been reached
so far.
C. The Effects of the Earthquake
2.14      About 220 km of primary roads and 180 km of rural roads were damaged
by the earthquake and will need to be rebuilt at a total cost estimated, respec-
tively, at US$33 million and US$9 million. This reconstruction effort will
be executed in three stages: emergency, short term and long term. The most
serious damage was done to the first 80-km section of the Atlantic Highway
near Guatemala City. The emergency repair works have now been completed by



- 5 -
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers with USAID financing, and the road has been
reopened to all traffic. The Government hopes to reallocate the proceeds
of an existing IDB highway loan to the more permanent reconstruction of the
highway (US$11 million) and expects a US$1 million grant from the Government
of the Federal Republic of Germany for reconstruction of a major bridge at
Agua Caliente.
2.15      The railway, which parallels much of the Atlantic Highway on the
floor of the valleys, suffered only minor damages, estimated at about US$1.3
million, and was able to restart its operation very quickly. However, the
damages to the track, caused by minor but recurrent landslides, reduce the
speed of trains considerably and, therefore, the level of traffic. Passenger
traffic has been suspended, and priority has been given to export cargo.
2.16      The port of Puerto Barrios is now out of service due to the collapse
of the wharf with its warehouse installation and equipment. The replacement
cost of the facilities is estimated at about US$10-15 million. The 350-m long
access bridge, with its three railway spurs, has suffered only minor damages,
however, and can be used to a limited extent for berthing; its rehabilitation
is recommended as an interim short term measure that will allow for planning
and construction of a permanent dry bulk terminal. Santo Tomas suffered only
very minor damage and is now handling most of the traffic previously handled
at Puerto Barrios (para 4.03).
3. THE PROJECT
A. Description and Cost Estimates
3.01      The project consists of (see Chart):
(a) a limited rehabilitation of Puerto Barrios, including:
(i)  converting the existing 350-m long access bridge
into a two-berth pier (US$1,600,000);
(ii)  dredging about 240,000 m  alongside the pier
(US$400,000);
(iii)  provision of cargo-handling equipment (US$160,000);
and
(iv)  consulting services for preparing and supervising
(i) and (ii) above (US$130,000).
(b) a port organization study to help improve the port insti-
tutions in Guatemala (US$70,000); and



- 6 -
(c) a feasibility study for construction of a dry bulk terminal
(US$110,000).
3.02      To upgrade the access bridge, it is intended to drive piles along-
side it to support a concrete deck 4-6 m wide and 350 m long, thereby provid-
ing some limited apron space to work the ships. The area alongside the berth
would be dredged to -8.5 m at lower low water in, at the outer end, decreasing
to -6.0 m at the land end. The existing damaged piles would be repaired, and
the causeway would be paved to provide truck access alongside ships. To
replace equipment lost during the earthquake, the following cargo-handling
equipment would be acquired: four to five forklifts and two to three portable
conveyors. The following three studies would be carried out before implemen-
tation:
(a)  hydrographic study to define the water depth in the port
and channel area and to determine dredging requirements;
(b)  structural study of the condition of the existing piling
and access bridge to define the amount of repair and
reinforcement needed; and
(c)  engineering design of the proposed structure.
Terms of reference for these studies have been discussed with the executing
agency and are included in Annex 1. Consultants would be hired to carry out
these studies. They will also prepare bid documents and supervise project
execution.
3.03      A feasibility study is needed to define the optimum location and
economic viability of a dry bulk terminal. At least four alternative loca-
tions have been suggested and should be considered:
(a)  In Puerto Barrios, which has the advantage of having the railway
infrastructure, some warehouse space and a pool of experienced
manpower;
(b)  In Santo Tomas, where a free zone with industrial development
is planned, in addition to planned expansion in container and
roll-on/roll-off facilities;
(c)  At a new location, in the Bay of Galvez, 12 km east of Puerto
Barrios, where deep and protected waters would provide a good
site for a new bulk-handling terminal; and
(d)  On the Pacific coast, because of the proximity of the export-
oriented agricultural zone.
These alternatives are being studied in the ongoing Central American Transport
Study at a prefeasibility level and could be studied at a feasibility level.



3.04      The port organization study would review the existing shortcomings
of port institutions in Guatemala and propose an overall reorganization plan
of the port sector at the port level and at the national level. Along with
the proposed charters for the new institutions, the study should produce a
realistic schedule for implementation of the proposed reorganization. During
an early phase, the study should consider the setting up of an appropriate
port authority on the Atlantic Coast to operate both existing and proposed
facilities. The terms of reference, as well as the qualifications and expe-
rience of the team to be nominated for carrying out the study, would be ap-
prove &by- the Bank.                        -_
3.05      The total estimated cost of the project is US$3.0 million equivalent
with a foreign exchange component of US$2.3 million (76%). More detailed cost
estimates are given in Table 3 and are summarized below:
Q ('000) = US$ ('000)             % of
Local     Foreign      Total      Total Cost
Dredging                           50           350         400          13
Civil Works                       400         1,200       1,600          53
Equipment                          20           150         170           6
Engineering and Supervision       130             -         130           a
Subtotal               600         1,700       2,300          76
Studies                            50           130         180           6
Base Cost Estimate    650           1,830      2,480           82
Contingencies
Physical                         50           350         hOO          13
Price                            30           120         150           5
Total Estimated Cost  730          2,300       3,030          100
The foreign currency component for civil works is relatively high since, as
a result of the shortage of construction materials, Guatemala is now importing
cement, reinforcement steel, timber, asphalt, etc.
B. Project Execution, Procurement and Disbursement
(i) Execution
3.06      The Ministry of Communications and Public Works (MCPW) would be res-
ponsible for the execution of the project. The Vice Minister has been nomi-
nated by the President of the Republic to be personally responsible for proj-
ect implementation. He would be assisted by consultants, who would, in close



-8-
collaboration with FEGUA, carry out the studies mentioned in paragraph 3.02,
prepare the detailed engineering and tender documents and would later super-
vise the construction work. The consultants would be Guatemalans assisted by
foreign experts. In view of the small amount involved (US$130,000), and in
order to speed up project preparation, it is proposed that these consultants
be nominated and paid directly by the Government. It was agreed during
negotiations that the selection of the consultants would be made in consulta-
tion with the Bank and that reports on the studies mentioned in paragraph 3.02
and the bid documents to be prepared by the consultants would be made avail-
able to the Bank for review and comments.
3.07      The National Economic Planning Council has been nominated by the
Government to supervise the Port Organization Study, which would be based upon
terms of reference to be discussed and agreed with the Bank. Contracting
would be done according to Bank guidelines. During negotiations, assurance
was obtained that the Bank would be given an opportunity to review and comment
on the final draft report of the study.
3.08      The feasibility study for the bulk terminal also would be undertaken
by the National Economic Planning Council with Bank financing. During negotia-
tions, it was agreed that the Bank would review and agree upon the terms of
reference, and that the selection of consultants would be done in accordance
with Bank guidelines. It is estimated that about 30 man-months of consultant
services (of which 20 man-months would be provided by foreign specialists)
would be required for the two studies at an average cost of US$5,000 per
man-month.
(ii) Procurement
3.09      The main contract (53% of project cost), comprising marine works
and paving, is to be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with acceptable local procedures. This would
involve international participation since all large local contractors are
working in joint venture with expatriate contractors.
3.10      In order to save time and mobilization costs, the contract for the
dredging (13% of project cost) required in conjunction with the wharf rehabili-
tation should be negotiated with the dredging company (Guatemalan-US Company)
presently engaged in deepening the approach channel to nearby Santo Tomas,
under a contract that was awarded following international bidding. During
negotiations, it was confirmed that, subject to obtaining reasonable con-
tract terms, the Bank had no objection to this procedure.
3.11      It was also agreed that the limited amount of cargo-handling equip-
ment (6% of project cost) to be provided under the rehabilitation project
could be procured from the same companies which supplied the equipment lost
in the earthquake in order to permit standardization and continuing use of
existing spare parts. FEGUA would assist MCPW in the procurement of this
equipment.



- 9 -
3.12      The schedule for the execution of port works shown in Annex 2 has
been discussed and agreed with the executing agency. The reconstruction of
the port and also the studies for port organization and bulk terminal are
expected to be completed by end March 1977.
(iii) Disbursements
3.13      A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Table 4.  Disburse-
ments would cover:
(a) 87% of the total cost of dredging work related to the
port rehabilitation works;
(b)  75% of the total cost of civil works;
(c)  100% of the foreign cost of the mobile equipment;
(d)  100% of the foreign costs of the consultants' fees for the
studies.
C. Financing
3.14      The foreign exchange component has been estimated at 76% of total
cost, or US$2.3 million, and would be covered by the Bank loan. Local costs
in the amount of US$.7 million, as well as interest during construction, would
be financed by the Government. This was confirmed during negotiations. The
tentative financing plan is therefore as follows:
Millions of US$
1976    1977    Total
Requirements of funds
Project cost                                  2.0      1.0      3.0
Sources of funds
Bank loan                                     1.4      0.9      2.3
Government contributions                      0.5      o.2      0.7
1.9     1.1      3.0



- 10 -
D. Ecology
3.15      The dredging would alter the existing seabed around the wharf.
The dredged material which cannot be used as selected fill material for the
foreseen port development of Santo Tomas would be dumped in the deeper parts
of the sea. Experience has shown that the amount of silting is extremely
small. The currents are minimal, and no rivers empty into the bay. No large
scale variations in the dredged areas and maintenance dredging quantities are
foreseen. The rehabilitated port facilities would handle non-polluting cargo
similar to that handled in the past. No adverse effects are therefore expected.
4. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Traffic Patterns and Port Capacity
4.01      As indicated in Table 2, the total port traffic handled in 1975
in the Atlantic ports of Guatemala was about 1,580,000 metric tons, with
Santo Tomas handling 1,040,000 tons and Puerto Barrios 540,000 tons. Puerto
Barrios handled mostly agricultural exports, such as bananas (227,000 tons),
sugar (149,000 tons) and grain imports (87,000 tons). Santo Tomas, on the
other hand, has traditionally handled general cargo (400,000 tons), either in
break-bulk or unitized form (container and trailer), in addition to petroleum
product imports (370,000 tons). Traffic growth in the past has been important
on the Atlantic coast, at about 9% on average per annum over the six-year
period from 1970 to 1975, and, particularly, in Santo Tomas, where traffic
trebled during the last ten years. Although detailed traffic forecasts are
not available at this time, tentative forecasts were prepared for the years
1976 to 1979, based on information provided by the users, the Port Authorities
and the Central American Transport Study Group (Table 2). They show that
total traffic demand for the Atlantic is expected to increase to about 2.2
million tons by 1979, which is equivalent to an average yearly increase of
8.7%, slightly below past growth rate. These forecasts assume that the
present capacity limitation on the Atlantic coast will be eliminated from
early 1977 onward when the temporary rehabilitation project in Puerto Barrios
is completed. The forecasts for 1976 and 1977 also take into account the
earthquake effects, mainly in the form of additional and temporary imports
of foodstuff, machinery, steel and building materials. This increase is
partially offset by reduced exports of wood (to be used locally).
4.02      The collapse of the four-berth pier of Puerto Barrios represents
a decrease in capability to handle 500,000 tons per year, which is expected
to be met this year, approximately, as follows: about 70% will be absorbed
by Santo Tomas, 15% will be diverted to the Pacific port of Acajutla in
El Salvador, and the remaining 15% will continue to be handled in Puerto
Barrios, alongside the access bridge. Because of its excess capacity, Santo
Tomas has so far been able to handle the bulk of the additional traffic
without major problems, but at some additional cost. Ship waiting time has



increased from almost nil in 1975 to 15% of service time this year in spite
of double shift working. There are some inefficient rail operations and
double handlings of cargo due to the fact that the rail yards and the sugar
warehouse are located in Puerto Barrios, 10 km away. Although there is
no immediate congestion problem, additional capacity would be needed to meet,
first, the boost of imports generated by the reconstruction program and,
second, the expected medium term traffic growth.
B. Short Term Alternatives
4.03      Since a carefully planned and engineered new investment providing
a substantial increase in port capacity on the Atlantic would be at least
two-and-a-half to three years away, four short term alternatives were con-
sidered, which are not mutually exclusive:
(a) the proposed limited rehabilitation of Puerto Barrios,
providing an additional two-berth capacity, mainly for
the export of sugar;
(b) the provision of lighterage facilities, making use of the
existing access bridge in Puerto Barrios;
(c) improvement in Santo Tomas, including the purchase of bulk
handling equipment and the construction of additional
railway spurs and new storage areas; and
(d) diversion of more cargo to Pacific ports or to other Atlantic
ports, such as Puerto Cortes in Honduras.
The total costs to the Guatemalan economy incurred by each alternative were
estimated on the basis of available information and were found to be the least
for the first alternative (Annex 3).
C. Other Factors
4.04      The proposed solution is one that fits well with the longer term
prospective. Unlike a hasty reconstruction of a full bulk berth in Puerto
Barrios which would preempt the careful study and implementation of other,
possibly better, long term alternatives, it gives time, at a relatively
low cost, to carefully plan future bulk shipping facilities in Guatemala and
to lay the groundwork for creating badly needed port institutions. In this
regard, the proposed project is not an attempt to restore the old inefficient
situation, but is, rather, the first step of a long term port improvement
strategy. To ensure this, the Government agreed during negotiations that
before undertaking, within the next three years, the construction or develop-
ment of any dry bulk terminal which may decrease the use of the proposed
two berth facility, the Bank would be given an opportunity to comment on
the economic justification of such project.



- 12 -
4.05      Unlike other short term alternatives considered, the proposed
rehabilitation would provide jobs for a large portion of the 1,000 workers
who lost employment as a result of the earthquake. The port was, in fact,
the main economic activity of the Puerto Barrios community (about 40,000
people), and it is estimated that about one-third of the total township
was economically dependent upon the port activity.
4.06      Because most of FEGUA's traffic and revenues were generated by the
imports and exports through Puerto Barrios, the closing of Puerto Barrios
would result in a rapid decline of railway traffic and would place FEGUA in
a very critical position. Even if all of the Puerto Barrios traffic were
transferred to Santo Tomas, it is very unlikely that the modal split between
rail and road port cargo would remain the same as it was before the earth-
quake, because Santo Tomas was not designed, and is not equipped, to handle
rail cargo efficiently. Thus, keeping some, albeit reduced, port activity
in Puerto Barrios would also help to avoid a rapid deterioration of FEGUA
until, at least, its economic role in the transportation system of Guatemala
is ascertained.
D. Project Risk
4.07      The special risks attendant upon the project are the possible damage
to the proposed facility by another earthquake and delays in construction due
to shortage of materials; provision would be made in the design of the structure
to minimize the first risk to a reasonable extent. Since the construction
period is short and the quantities of materials required are not large and are
believed to be presently available, the second risk would not be of material
significance.
E. Conclusion
4.08      The proposed project, while being the least cost short term alter-
native for ensuring normal port operations on the Atlantic coast for the
next three years, is also the first step of a long term port improvement
strategy, thanks to the technical assistance program it includes. It will
also alleviate serious unemployment and other social problems within the
community of Puerto Barrios and the port-dependent Guatemalan Railways, until
better and more permanent solutions can be implemented.
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following points:
(a) The selection of consultants for carrying out the engineering
studies and design and supervision of execution would be made
in consultation with the Bank (para. 3.06);



- 13 -
(b) The Bank would be given an opportunity to review and comment
on reports on studies mentioned in paragraph 3.02 and the bid
documents (para. 3.06);
(c) The appointment of consultants for the studies for Port
Organization and Bulk Terminal would be made in accordance
with Bank guidelines and the Bank would review and comment
on their terms of reference and the final draft reports
(paras. 3.07 and 3.08);
(d) The Government would finance the local costs of executing the
project, as well as interest during construction (para. 3.14);
and
(e) Before undertaking, within the next three years, development
of any dry bulk terminal which may decrease the use of the
proposed two-berth facility, the Bank would be given an oppor-
tunity to comment on the economic justification of such
project (para. 4.04).



I



GUATEMALA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Exports and Imports by Mode - First Half of 1975
Imports,-             -Exports                            Total
000~   Milli-on         000      Million        000                Mil ion
Mode/Border Point        tons     Quetzales      tons     Quetzales      tons       %       Quetzales        %
or U$or US$~
Sea
Pacific
Champerico              5.9         1.7        76.1        56.5        82.0      6,9         58.2          9.8
San Jose             197.2         35.2        46.9        22.0       244.1     20,4         57.2          9.7
203.1        36.9      123.0         78.5       326.1     27.3        lY5.4         19.5
Atlantic
Pu.erto Barrios        22.1         7.0       269.1        97.6       291.2     24.4        104.6         17.7
Santo Tomas          175.6         76.2      140.8        140.2       316.4     26.4        216.4         36.5
19777        83.2       409.9       237.8      -607,6    -508         321.0         54.2
Ports Subtotal       4hoo8        120.1       532.9       316.3       933.7     78.1        436.4         73.7
Land                     91.0        46.o       166.2        80.9       257.2     21.5        126.9         21.5
(inc. Mexico)         (23.5)       (1.1)       (3.2)       (1.4)      (26.7)                 (8.5)
Air                       1.5        16.0         3.4        12.7         4.9        .4        28.7          4.8
Total                   493.3       182.1       702.5       409.9    1,195.8    100.0         592.o        100.0
Soutre:  Direccion General de Estadistica
November 1975



GUATEMALA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Traffic Statistics and Forecasts for the Atlantic Ports
in 000's of Metric Tons
Actual Results 1974                          Actual Results 1975                            Traffic Forecasts
1974              1974          1974          1975             1975          1975
Puerto Barrios      Santo Tomas    Total    Puerto Barrios    Santo Tomas    Total           19761/;   1977        1978       1979
A. Exports
Banana                         297                  -           297         227                   -          227        218        227        233        243
Sugar                           79                 50           129         149                 42           191        278        324       388        450
Coffee                        n.a.                107           107           8                106           114        107        110        120        125
Minerals                         -                                -           -                  8             8         12         28         47         85
General Cargo                   31                120           151          14                 73            87         80        104        120        135
Subtotal Exports              407                 277           684         398                229           627        695        793        908     1 038
B.  Imports
Petroleum products               6                411           417          14                370           384        390        410       430        451
Grain                           54                 71           125          87                 61           148        130        130        130        130
Fertilizer                   n.a.                  29            29          18                 55            73         80         88         97        107
General Cargo                  48                 372           420          23                325           348        450       450        462        510
Subtotal Imports               108                883           991         142                811           953      1,050     1,078      1,119      1,198
C. Total Exports and
Imports                        515               1,160        1,675         540              1,040         1,580      1,745     1,871      2,027      2,236
Total (excluding petroleum
products)                          509                 749        1,258         526                670         1,196      1,355      ,_461     1,597      1,785
1J  Forecast traffic includes traffic that has been temporarily diverted to the Pacific ports (Acajutla, in particular),
due to the earthquake.  It is expected that with the rehabilitation project this traffic 4ll revert to the Atlantic
ports.
Source:  Santo Tomas Port Authority, FEGUA, Central American StuId  Group, Asazgua, Bandegua.
May 1976



GUATEMALA
~PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
% of
,Local     ioreign       T,otal     Total Cost
TQuetzal 00or US$ O0T
I DREDGING
Dredging of some 240,000 m3                    50         350           400          13
II CIVIL WORKS
Rehabilitation of existing causeway            250      1,050         1,300          43
Repair and paving of causeway                 150         150           300          10
Subtotal        70       1,200         1,60
III EQUIPMENT
Forklift (four to five)                         10         90           100           3
Portable Conveyors (two to three)               10          60           70            2
Subtotal         20        170           170
IV  ENGINEERING AND SUPERVISION                    130           -          130           4
V STUDIES
Organization                                    20         50            70           2
Feasibility for Bulk  Terminal                  30         80           110           4
Subtotal        mB0 130                  1
BASE COST ESTIMATE                    650       1,830         2,480          82
VI CONTINGENCIES
Physical                                        50         350          400          13
Price                                           30        120           150           5
Subtotal       oE                         5
GRAND TOTAL    730       2,300         3,030         100
Source: Bank Missions
June, 1976



TABL,E L
UJATEMALA
PORT REHABEITATTON PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year                  Estimated                     Estimated
and End of Quarter              Disbursements           Cumulative Disbursements
US$000                       US$000
FY1977
September 30, 1976                  400.0                         400.0
December 31, 1976                 1,000.0                       1,41o00.0
March 31, 1977                       600.0                      2,000.0
June 30, 1977                       100.0                       2,100.0
Source: Bank mission
May 1976



ANNEX 1
GUATEMALA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Engineering Studies
The engineering studies for the reconstruction of Puerto Barrios are
designed to provide all engineering data, computations, specifications, mate-
rials, listings, and survey and test requirements for the reconstruction of
Puerto Barrios. The following terms of reference define the required engineer-
ing studies:
1.   Definition of requirements for hydrographic survey and
analysis of results of said survey.
2.   Definition of requirements for soil borings and tests and
review of laboratory and soil mechanics analysis to determine
load bearing capability and consequent piling requirements.
3.   Specification of requirements for inspection and test and repair
of existing causeway structure.
4.   Review of submerged obstructions and effect on safety of
approach, including determination of debris removal and marking
requirements.
5.   Determination of dredging requirements and specifications for
dredging project, including determination of channel width,
turning circle, and docking approach. Definition of naviga-
tional aids.
6.   Computation of docking and mooring forces and specifications
for mooring methods and fittings.
7.   Engineering and design of structure to support vertical loads
of 3 tons/square meter and transverse docking and mooring
forces.
8.   Design of wharf outfitting, including piping, bollards and
fendering system.
9.   Drafting of construction specifications and bill of quantities.
10.   Drafting of tender documents for dredging and new wharf construc-
tion at Puerto Barrios.



GUATEMALA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Execution Schedule for Port Works
1 9 7 6 ,                                   9 ? 7
JUNE    JULY    AUG.    SEPT.       OCT,    NOV.    DEC.   JAN.    FEB.    MAR.
1.  SELECTION OF CONSULTANTS
2.  AGREEMENT WITH CONSULTANTS
3. ENGINEERING STUDIES
4.  D     nEsiGN AND P      OF
TENDER DOCUMENTS
DREDGING                                               ___
CIVIL WORKS                                         _     _____
5.  BIDDING                                                                           i
DREDGING
CIVIL WORKS
6.  AWARD
DREDGING
CIVIL WORKS
EQUIPMENT 
7.  EXECUTION
DREDGING
CIVIL WORKS
EQUIPMENT                              |,____I
June  1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
GUATEMALA
PORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Justification - Discussion of Short Term Alternatives
Lighterage
1.        Lighterage could constitute a flexible but expensive short term
alternative. Providing 200,000 tons of lighterage capacity would require
an initial investment of about US$800,000 in equipment and would increase
cargo-handling costs by an additional US$4.00 per ton, or US$800,000 per
year. This extra charge, combined with higher damage costs, would preclude
the shipment of sugar and coffee exports by this method. Also, lighterage
facilities would not completely replace the proposed project since a partial
rehabilitation of the existing bridge would still be needed. It is there-
fore estimated that, when compared with proposed alternatives, the savings in
investment costs would not outweigh the additional operating costs incurred by
the lighterage alternative.
Improvement in Santo Tomas
2.        Although port productivity can still be raised in Santo Tomas, and
is expected to be by the end of the year when the three-shift schedule is
implemented, the inadequacy of the port installation in handling bulk cargo
casts serious doubt upon its ability to handle the total expected Atlantic
traffic within the next three years. Improvements in additional rail facili-
ties, costing about US$500,000, would have to be made to facilitate the
movements of rail-carried goods inside and outside the port area. With
these physical improvements and very favorable port operation conditions,
i.e., a 40% increase in productivity and a traffic flow evenly distributed
throughout the year, the queuing analysis shows that berth occupancy could be
high, about 70%, corresponding to 230 waiting days. With the proposed project,
waiting time would be reduced, and savings are estimated at about 200 ship
days in 1977 and 300 in 1978, corresponding to about US$600,000 and US$900,000
respectively, in ship cost savings. It should be noted that even a slight
shortfall from the maximum productivity or irregularly distributed traffic
would cause a drastic increase in berth occupancy and waiting time, i.e.,
waiting time becomes infinite if only two shifts are worked. It is inadvis-
able, therefore, to consider that Santo Tomas would be able, with short term
improvements only, to cope with the bulk of Atlantic cargo. The construc-
tion of an additional general cargo berth in Santo Tomas is not considered
here since its cost would be much higher - at least US$5 million - and it
might not be consistent with the planned long term expansion of the port.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Diversion to other Ports of the Atlantic and Pacific Coasts
3.        Diverting more cargo to other ports on the Atlantic or the Pacific
coasts is either not feasible for capacity reasons or is costly in terms of
loss of national output. The two lighterage ports on the Guatemalan Pacific
Coast are high cost operations, and their capacity is quite limited. Addi-
tional truck costs to Puerto Cortes (Honduras) are reported to be US$10 to
US$12 higher than to the Guatemalan ports of Santo Tomas/Puerto Barrios and,
therefore, too much to make Puerto Cortes a valid alternative. Acajutla, in
El Salvador, is being used for sugar exports and could continue to be used.
Farm-to-shipboard transport costs are about US$3.00-3.50 per ton cheaper than
for the Atlantic port due to a lower trucking rate (US$11-12 instead of
US$17-18); however, this advantage is eliminated when considering c.i.f.
costs in the United States, due to Panama Canal charges and higher freight
rates. Since sugar is being sold f.o.b., the additional sea costs have to be
paid, so far, by the sugar importer, but it is unlikely that this would
continue to be so since Guatemalan sugar would become less competitive on the
sugar market. However, the main diseconomy incurred by using Acajutla would
be the loss of foreign exchange and of related national output that it entails.
At US$6/ton (handling rates in Acajutla) and 200,000 tons per year, this
represents a minimum loss for Guatemala of US$1,200,000 annually for the next
three years, i.e., about US$3.6 million over a three-year period, not counting
the foreign trucking costs.



N
GUATEMALA
PORT REIIABILITATION PROJECT
CHART OF PUERTO BARRIOS PORT FACILITIES
AND PROJECT aSI
-  -. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  -
_Qco ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      L~
~~~~/' -.L s<-7 /  ., ..                                                                                                                           .-.-.                   ..... .-..-...... 
/ /~~               ~  ~   /         /                                     .,,tO                                                                   D   r q c> u v       ' ' 
.__-                                                      .7-/  /  ../.-17-1E                                                                                                         A
.  SS  *,   A X,                                                                                                         \
1    /C,                     






X, S   , I-Y i': ' <                       o                          <' e C' * ' a - ' X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR 19
'  T   <   n   .   N   D   ...  2_  .,,  .,9,- ........  ' 4 De-gunss [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i T
-fc        alS;      e .  r >
:   ,-,I.T.,-  AMtn-t.J ? 'r - ;
.:-    j_' ' '-,  .'r; ' ' -  ,~~~~~~~~. .=  ,.  .'' -  '  A95   T,td   [   |  ::        ;                :    :   ::~~~~~~P~
"r.,':.  _    _  '  '7-   ''  C'  'S  L!E
.E6<T                                                                                               <Sn    ,                                        1 ha
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~l L-9i::,:jLA :                        :        .       y
t >~~~X!S b                                            /A dd 
X RESLEU l tU ui Na H ,g, E ,,D L ' s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_Z 
manperic:   _  (   1-j  / D  1\    \_>< gCULAPAALcsemsag    >  t    \8 ' D N   i a . i D-ID. j,   r4>   tli.a' ".,   -, PD:. -
E79                  I     g      O    t    5     9      M9i            S      g                                      D>
Mv , El EgS C Ut t Te AL A / Tusi~~s .D -r-D,i2  d, .1 -. '',i
0       :;tdD9i4 cD
0  p  A  r  f  0  F  z :> ; C u- DAT '- " Ds S , D . - X D D i *s , | * d D '- t; t~~~~~tV&  ~vtv~a



