CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1314 GU
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project - Education
and Port Rehabilitation Components)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 2, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF GUATE-
MALA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sites and Services Loan Agreement" means the loan agree-
ment of even date herewith, between the Borrower and the Bank
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project - Urban Sites and Services
Component) as such loan agreement may be amended from time to time;
(b) "Second Education Loan Agreement" means the loan agree-
ment dated March 5, 1976, between the Borrower and the Bank (Sec-
ond Education Project) as such loan agreement may be amended from
time to time;
(c) "BANVI" means the Borrower's Banco Nacional de la
Vivienda, a decentralized public institution, established by Decree
No. 2-73 of the Borrower's Congress, dated January 2, 1973, as
amended from time to time;


﻿1)-3
- 3 -
(d) "Project Unit" means the unit established and operated
pursuant to Section 5.01 (d) of the loan agreement dated Decem-
ber 16, 1968, between the Borrower and the Bank within the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Communication and Public Works, with, in re-
spect of Part A.2 of the Project, the same duties and responsibili-
ties described in Schedule 5 to the Second Education Loan Agreement;
(e) "CEEP" means a unit named Unidad Ejecutora de Construcci6n
y Equipamiento del Proyecto de Extensi6n y Mejoramiento de la Educa-
ci6n Primaria, established within the Ministry of Communication and
Public Works, by Acuerdo of Borrower's Ministers of Education, Com-
munications and Public Works, and Public Finance, dated August 27,
1975; and the term includes any successor thereto;
(f) "FEGUA" means Ferrocarriles de Guatemala, a descentralized
public institution established by Decree 22-69 of the Borrower's
Congress, dated May 7, 1969, and presently operating in accordance
with Decree 60-72 of the Borrower's Congress, dated September 12,
1972; and the term includes any successor thereto;
(g) "Emergency Procedures" means the accelerated procurement
procedures for national emergency situations permitted by Legisla-
tive Decree No. 11-71; published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
No. 73, dated March 8, 1971 and by the regulations of such Legis-
lative Decree; and
(h) "Earthquake" means the earthquake that on February 4,
1976 affected the Borrover's territories and the term includes
the aftershocks thereof.


﻿-.4
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to six mil-
lion five hundred thousand dollars ($6,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherw,&se agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and eighty-five hundredths per cent (8.85%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and tutstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Education Component
(Part A of the Project)
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project through its Ministry of Education with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, fi-
nancial and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
(a) for the purpose of carrying out Part A.l of the Project:
(i) make CEEP take over the duties and responsibilities described
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) appoint within CEEP, in
consultation with the Bank, an engineer, an architect, a draftsman
and a procurement officer, and continue thereafter to use the ser-
vices thereof until the completion of such Part of the Project;
and
(b) for the purpose of carrying out Part A.2 of the Project,
(i) continue to operate the Project Unit until the Closing Date,
and (ii) provide such Project Unit with adequate support staff
which will include, inter alia, an engineer, an architect, a
draftsman and a cost estimator.


﻿ST-
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the architec-
tural design of the buildings and facilities for the educational
institutions included in Pat A of the Project, the Borrower shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, employ architectural con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
for employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action as shall
be necessary to establish, not later than six months from the
date of this Agreement, and to maintain and operate thereafter
until the Closing Date, such special technical committees as
shall be acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia,
representatives of the Borrower's Ministry of Education, the Proj-
ect Unit and CEEP, for purposes of (i) analyzing and reviewing ar-
chitectural designs, and equipment and furniture lists and speci-
fications for the educational institutions included in Part A of
the Project, and (ii) certifying that such designs, lists and spe-
cifications meet the economic and functional standards and costs,
and the educational objectives of each such institution.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, after receiving the Bank's
approval for the sites selected by the Borrower for purposes of
Part A'l (i) and 2 of the Project, take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire, not later than January 1, 19(7 or such
other later date as shall be determined by the Bank, all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construc-
tion (and operation) of the facilities included in Part A.1 (i) and
2 of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land


﻿and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related
to such Part of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank with BANVI, for the purpose of: (i) coordinating the carry-
ing out of Part A.1 (ii) of the Project; (ii) requesting the Bank's
approval for the sites selected by the Borrower and BANVI for con-
struction of schools under such Part of the Project; (iii) ensuring
the acquisition by BANVI, as and when needed, of all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for such construction;
(iv) ensuring the transfer of title to the Borrower by way of grant
and when needed for purposes of Part A.1 (ii) of the Project, of
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
operation by the Borrower of the schools included in such Part of
the Project; and
(b) furnish to the Bank promptly after every acquisition, or
transfer of title, of land and rights in respect of land referred
to, respectively, in (a) (iii) and (a) (iv) above, evidence satis-
factory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land
are available for purposes related to Part A.1 (ii) of the Proj-
ect.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to:
(a) subject to (b) below, permit students of neighboring
schools and adults involved in non-formal training programs, to


﻿-9-
utilize the facilities of: (i) the basic workshops and home eco-
nomics spaces of the schools included in Part A.1 (ii) of the
Project having such facilities; and (ii) the schools included in
Part A.2 (i), (iii), (iv) and (v) of the Project; and
(b) ensure that the ordinary use of the facilities referred
to in (a) (i) and (ii) above by students attending the regular
classes therein will not be disrupted by any action taken to com-
ply with (a) above.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to ensure that schools included in Part A.2 of
the Project shall: (i) adopt the same curricula as the lover sec-
ondary schools included in Part A (1) of Schedule 2 to the Second
Education Loan Agreement; and (ii) benefit from the activities in-
cluded in Parts D and E of Schedule 2 to the Second Education Loan
Agreement for the benefit of lower secondary schools included in
Part A (1) of such Schedule.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall provide the educational
institutions included in the Project with the necessary number
of fully qualified and trained teaching and administrative staff
who shall serve therein on a full-time basis; provided, however,
that when fully qualified and trained teachers are not available
on such a full-time basis, the Borrower may temporarily employ
(i) such teachers on a part-time basis,or (ii) less than fully
qualified and trained teachers either on a full-time or a part-
time basis.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall operate the educational
institutions included in the Project in accordance with appropriate
administrative and educational policies and practices and with due
regard to economy so as to promote the training and other educa-
tional objectives of the Borrower, and shall appropriate or cause
to be appropriated, specific annual budget allocations for each
such educational institution in such amounts as shall be necessary
for such operation.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings, equipment
and furniture of the educational institutions included in the
Project to be adequately inspected and maintained and cause all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in accor-
dance with sound administrative and technical standards;and (ii)
without limiting the generality of sub-paragraph (i) herein, ap-
propriate or cause to be appropriated, specific annual budget al-
locations for each educational institution included in the Project
which shall amount to not less than (A) one per cent (1%) of the
replacement cost of each such institution estimated at the end of
each fiscal year for the first four calendar years after comple-
tion of construction of each such institution, and (B) one and one-
half per cent (1-1/2%) of such replacement cost thereafter.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Port Rehabilitation Component
(Part B of the Project)
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part B.1 of the
Project through its Ministry of Communication and Public Works
and Part B.2 and 3 of the Project through the Borrower's General
Secretariat of the National Economic Planning Council, all with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) employ, in consultation with the Bank, engineering con-
sultants who shall carry out: (i) a hydrographic study to define
the water depth in Puerto Barrios and in Puerto Barrios' channel
areas and to determine dredging requirements therein; (ii) a
structural study of the condition of the existing piling and access
bridge to define the amount of repair and reinforcement needed;
and (iii) in cooperation with FEGUA, the engineering designs of,
and the preparation of bidding documents for, the proposed struc-
ture for Part B.1 (i) of the Project; and
(b) afford the Bank, before bids are invited in respect of
Part B.1 (i) and (ii) of the Project, a reasonable opportunity to
comment on: (i) the recommendations of the studies referred to in
(a) (i) and (ii) above; and (ii) on the engineering designs referred
to in (a) (iii) above.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.03. For the purposes of carrying out Part B.1 of
the Project, including the engineering designs and the bidding
documents referred to in Section 4.02 (a) (iii) of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall, if necessary, enter with FEGUA into contractual
arrangements therefor; such contractual arrangements, if any, to be
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.04. In order to assist the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of Part B.2 and 3 of the Project, the Borrower shall, un-
less the Bank shall otherwise agree, employ engineering consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions for em-
ployment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take, or cause FEGUA, or
any port authority having jurisdiction over Puerto Barrios to be
established in the future, to take, all such action as shall be
necessary to operate and maintain Puerto Barrios' facilities all
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering
practices.
Section 4.06. In the event the Borrower or any agency of the
Borrower (including FEGUA or any of the port authorities of the
Borrower presently established or to be established in the future)
proposes to undertake, within three years from the Effective Date,
the construction or development of one or more dry bulk terminals
which may decrease the use of the facilities to be built under
Part B.1 (i) of the Project, the Borrower shall, before any such
construction or development is undertaken, afford the Bank, and
cause any such agency of the Borrower to afford the Bank, a rea-
sonable opportunity to comment on the economic justification of
any such proposed construction or development.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.


﻿- 15 -
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
for approval, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date November 1, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿1T
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministro de Finanzas
Palacio Nacional
Guatemala
Guatemala
Cable address:
MINIFINANZAS
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     I40098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United' States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ Col. Abundio Maldonado
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ E. Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(1)   Civil works and         2,300,000          56%
Professional fees
(2)   Furniture and           1,000,000
equipment
(a) imported                               100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally pro-                           85%
cured
(3)   Salaries of the           200,000          100% of local
following staff:                            expenditures
1 architect,
1 engineer and
1 draftsman
each for, res-
pectively, Proj-
ect Unit and CEEP,
1 cost estimator
for Project Unit
and 1 procurement
officer for CEEP


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Part B of the Project
(4)   Civil works for          1,200,000          75%
Part B (1) (i)
(5)   Dredging works for         350,000          87%
Part B (1) (ii)
(6)   Equipment for              150,000          100% of foreign
Part B (1) (iii)                            expenditures
(7)   Studies                    130,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
Unallocated
(8)   Part A of the              700,000
Project
(9)   Part B of the              470,000
Project
TOTAL      6,500,000


﻿)21
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$50,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (3) on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
June 1, 1976; and


﻿- 22 -
(b) to be financed under Categories (1),(2) and (3), until:
(i) the Second Education Loan Agreement has become effective in
accordance with its terms; and (ii) the appointments referred to
in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement have been made.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrover's program to reconstruct
and rehabilitate its economy after the Earthquake. The Project
consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Education Component
1. (i) Construction, equipping and furnishing of approxi-
mately thirteen primary schools within Guatemala
City providing in the aggregate for 4,320 student
places; and
(ii) Construction, equipping and furnishing of approxi-
mately fourteen schools providing in the aggregate
for 3,360 student places, to be located within the
sites to be developed in the metropolitan area of
Guatemala City in accordance with Part A (1) of
Schedule 2 to the Sites and Services Loan Agree-
ment. In addition, one school in every such site
will include basic workshops and home economics
spaces.
2. Construction of five lower secondary schools to be lo-
cated in:
(i) Guatemala City, providing about 960 places;


﻿24. -
(ii) Guatemala City, providing about 600 places, to be
constructed on the same site where one of the com-
mon facility centers referred to in Part A (3) of
Schedule 2 to the Second Education Project Loan
Agreement will be constructed or on another site
selected and-approved as required by Section 3.05
of this Agreement;
(iii) El Progreso, providing about 360 places;
(iv) Salami, providing about 360 places; and
(v) Chichicastenango, providing about 360 places.
*              *              *
Part A of the Project is expected to be completed by Decem-
ber 31, 1979.
Part B:   Port Rehabilitation Component
1. Limited rehabilitation of Puerto Barrios, which will
include:
(i) conversion of the existing 350 meters long access
bridge into a two-berth pier, by driving piles
alongside to support a concrete deck 4 to 6 meters
wide and 350 meters long, repairing the existing
damaged piles and paving such bridge to provide
truck access;


﻿- 25 -
(ii) dredging alongside the pier referred to in (i)
above; and
(iii) acquisition and utilization of the following cargo-
handling equipment: four or five forklifts and
two or three portable conveyors;
(2) Carrying out a feasibility study to determine the opti-
mum location for, and economic viability of, the construc-
tion of a dry bulk terminal; and
(3) Carrying out a study which will review the existing
shortcomings of port institutions in Guatemala and
propose an overall organization of the Borrower's port
sector, both at each port level and at national level.
*              *              *
Part B of the Project is expected to be completed by March 31,
1977.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
November 1, 1980                                      75,000
May 1, 1981                                           80,000
November 1, 1981                                      85,000
May 1, 1982                                           85,000
November 1, 1982                                      90,000
May 1, 1983                                           95,000
November 1, 1983                                     100,000
May 1, 1984                                          105,000
November 1, 1984                                     105,000
May 1, 1985                                          115,000
November 1, 1985                                     120,000
May 1, 1986                                          120,000
November 1, 1986                                     130,000
May 1, 1987                                          135,000
November 1, 1987                                     140,000
May 1, 1988                                          145,000
November 1, 1986                                     155,000
May 1, 1989                                          160,000
November 1, 1989                                     165,000
May 1, 1990                                          175,000
November 1, 1990                                     180,000
May 1, 1991                                          190,000
November 1, 1991                                     200,000
May 1, 1992                                          210,000
November 1, 1992                                    215,000
May 1, 1993                                          225,000
November 1, 1993                                     235,000
May 1, 1994                                          245,000
November 1, 1994                                     260,000


﻿-27-
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)
May 1, 1995                                          270,000
November 1, 1995                                     280,000
may 1, 1996                                          290,000
November 1, 1996                                     310,000
May 1, 1997                                          315,000
November 1, 1997                                     335,000
May 1, 1998                                          360,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 28 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.20%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2.40%
Nbre than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.45%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    6.45%
More than sixteen years but
not more than than twenty
years before maturity                    8.05%
More than twenty years
before maturity                          8.85%


﻿SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B Aereof, works, equipment and
furniture for Part A of the Project and works and equipment for
Part B of the Project shall be procured under contracts to be
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Part A*of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
(b) Furniture and equipment under Parts A and B of the Proj-
ect shall be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall
be consistent with appropriate technical and procurement practices.
Whenever possible each bid package for such items shall be for not
less than the equivalent of $50,000.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works contracts under Parts A and B.1 (i) of the Proj-
ect shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding locally
advertised in accordance with procedures which shall be acceptable


﻿- 30 -
to the Bank; provided, however, that subject to such competitive
bidding the Borrower may use such additional Emergency Procedures
as shall have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.
2.   Furniture and equipment under Part A of the Project which
cannot be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more may be procured in accordance with the Borrower's
regular procedures, provided that the aggregate cost of the furni-
ture and equipment so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of
$165,000, or such other amount as the Bank shall determine.
3.   Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, contracts for works
required for Part B.1 (ii) of the Project may be awarded on a
negotiated basis.
4.   Contracts for cargo-handling equipment under Part B.1 (iii)
of the Project may be awarded, at a reasonable price and on a
negotiated basis, to the original suppliers of the equipment lost
or damaged in the Earthquake so as to permit standardization and
continued use of existing spare parts for such equipment.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids; Preference for
Manufacturers Established in the territories of the
member countries of the Central American Common Market
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods:
(i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid
the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-
manufactured goods;


﻿-31 -
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-
supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation
shall be included.
2.    Bids shall be compared in accordance with the following rules:
(a) the term "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted by
a manufacturer established in the territories of the member countries
of the Central American Comon Market for goods manufactured or pro-
cessed to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Bank)
in such territories; any other bid will be deemed to be a "Non-Central
American Bid";
(b) the bid price under a Central American Bid will be the sum
of the following amounts:
(i) the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii) freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the site designated in the specifi-
cations; and
(c) for the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American
Bid with any Central American Bid, the price under a Non-Central
American Bid will be the sum of the following amounts:


﻿- 32 -
(i) the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of such goods;
(ii) insurance costs to the port of entry;
(iii) half the amount of any taxes on the importation of
such goods into the territories of the Borrower
which generally apply to non-exempt importers, or
15% of the amounts specified in (i) and (ii) above,
whichever shall be the lover; and
(iv) freight insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods from the port of entry to the site des-
ignated in the specifications.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the margin of
preference to be granted.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said proce-
dure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments be-
fore the applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and
the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modi-
fications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-33 -
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to (i) all contracts for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and (ii) all contracts
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any -
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rover shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, (by the Project Unit and CEEP in
case of bids for expenditures for, respectively, Parts A.1 and 2
of the Project and by the consultants referred to in Sectijon 4.02
(a) of this Agreement, in case of bids for expenditures for Part B
of the Project) on the evaluation and comparison of the bids re-
ceived, (together with the recommendations for award of the said
Project Unit, CEEP and said consultants) and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿-34-
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿- 35 -
SCHEDULE 5
CEEP
1.   CEEP shall operate under the guidance of, and following the
policies set by, the Ministers of Education and Communications and
Public Works and of the Secretary General of the National Economic
Planning Council.
2.   CEEP shall be responsible for the technical, physical and
administrative execution of Part A.1 of the Project in coordina-
tion with the Borrower's agencies involved in the Project. It
shall, inter alia:
(a) make the necessary arrangements for the selection of
architectural consultants and other specialists, establish the
terms of reference for the contracts with such consultants and
specialists and administer such contracts;
(b) elaborate, in respect of Part A.1 of the Project, a
comprehensive Project implementation chart based on the critical
path method or other method satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank setting forth a planned timetable of coordinated activities
and responsibilities on which the execution of all aspects of
such Part of the Project will be based and, in respect of such
Part of the Project, the progress of Project implementation will
be monitored;
(c) prepare briefs for the architectural consultants relat-
ing educational specifications to realistic costing and functional
design, and providing information to the architectural consultants;


﻿- 36 -
(d) request the analysis and review by, and obtain the cer-
tification of, the special technical committees referred to in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement for plans, reports, equipment and
furniture lists and specifications and other material submitted
by consultants and experts and ascertain that such plans, reports,
equipment and furniture lists and specifications and other materi-
al meet the economic and functional standards and costs and the
educational objectives of Part A.1 of the Project;
(e) prepare, with the help of such special technical com-
mittees, lists of all instructional equipment, books and furniture
required by the educational and training institutions included in
Part A.1 of the Project, together with specifications and the esti-
mated unit price and total cost of each item;
(f) expedite the award of contracts relating to Part A.1 of
the Project;
(g) prepare detailed reports on the evaluation and compari-
son of bids received and make recommendations for the award of
contracts for which such bids have been received;
(h) ensure the regular inspection of all construction works;
(i) provide liaison with the Bank and with all appropriate
authorities of the Borrower in matters relating to the implementa-
tion of Part A.1 of the Project;
(j) set up an accounting system, keep Project accounts and
prepare periodic financial statements, as required to comply with
the provisions of the Loan Agreement;


﻿-..37 -
(k) prepare applications for withdrawals from the Loan
Account for purposes of Part A.1 of the Project; and
(1) evaluate the progress of Part A.1 of the Project and
prepare quarterly progress reports for the Bank.


