CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1315 T-GU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project -
Urban Sites and Services Component)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE LA VIVIENDA
Dated August 2, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCO NACIONAL DE LA VIVIENDA (hereinafter called BANVI).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween Republic of Guatemala (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank (Earthquake Reconstruction Project - Urban Sites and Ser-
vices Component), the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars
($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that BANVI agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by the Subsidiary Contract the Borrower will ensure that
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will
be made available to BANVI on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS BANVI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the Gen-
eral Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BANVI shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, substantially in accordance with
an implementation schedule satisfactory to the Bank, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin-
istrative, financial and engineering practices and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) BANVI shall enter with the Borrower and
Banco de Guatemala into the Subsidiary Contract and utilize the
proceeds of the Loan made available to BANVI thereby only for
purposes of the Project.
(b) BANVI shall enter with the Borrower and Banco de Guatemala
into the Fideicomiso Contract.
(c) BANVI shall make the necessary Contractual Arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank with: (i) INDE, EMPAGUA or other relevant
agencies of the Borrower acceptable to the Bank, for purposes of
Part A of the Project; and (ii) INTECAP or other relevant agencies
of the Borrower acceptable to the Bank, for purposes of Part C
of the Project.
(d) BANVI shall exercise its rights and perform its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Contract, the Fideicomiso Contract,
and the Contractual Arrangements and, except as the Bank shall


﻿-4-
otherwise agree, BANVI shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Contract, the Fideicomiso Contract, any of the Con-
tractual Arrangements, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, dwell-
ing plots under Part A (1) of the Project shall be allocated and
sold to every Beneficiary substantially in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Part I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Bank and BANVI.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, in
the carrying out of Part B of the Project, BANVI shall:
(a) for purposes of Part B (1), make loans to Beneficiaries
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including such
terms and conditions as set forth in Part I of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Bank and BANVI;
(b) for purposes of Part B (2) and in such cases where BANVI
shall not have an established branch or office in the applicable
Borrower's Municipio referred to in Part B (2) of the Project: (i)
enter into contracts with Participating Banks, to cause such Par-
ticipating Banks to make loans, or to assist BANVI to make loans,
to natural persons on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, inter alia, such terms and conditions as set forth in Part
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and BANVI; and (ii)
furnish to the Bank, for its approval, every such contract;


﻿-5 -
(c) for purposes of Part B (3), make loans to building mate-
rials manufacturers in the manner described in Part III of Schedule
3 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and BANVI, and on such other
terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Bank includ-
ing a repayment period not exceeding five years and an annual in-
terest at the rate of nine and seventy-five hundredths percent
(9.75%) per annum on the outstanding principal or such other rate
as shall be satisfactory to the Bank;
(d) furnish to the Bank for its approval the model forms of
contracts to be used for: (i) lending to Beneficiaries under para-
graph (a) above; and (ii) lending to building materials manufac-
turers under paragraph (c) above; and
(e) not change the model forms referred to in (d) above,
shall exercise its rights under every contract BANVI shall have
entered into in respect of Part B of the Project (including every
Participating Bank Contract), and duly perform all of BANVI's
obligations thereunder, in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Bank and BANVI and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan, and shall not assign, or amend, abrogate, waive or
fail to enforce such contracts or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. In order to assist BANVI in the carrying out
of the Project, in engineering and technical supervision, train-
ing of loan beneficiaries and project monitoring and evaluation,
promotion of small business, and such other matters as shall be
agreed between the Bank and BANVI, BANVI shall employ by Decem-
ber 31, 1976, or such later date as shall be determined by the


﻿Bank, a Senior Engineer, an Urban Planner, an Architect and a
Business Development Specialist, under terms of reference and
terms and conditions of employment, both satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the prGceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Sched-
ule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank
and BANVI.
Section 2.07. (a) BANVI undertakes to insure, orL make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by the Bor-
rower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by BANVI to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, BANVI shall
cause all goods and services, except vehicles and equipment for
the Project Unit, financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made
available to it by the Borrower, to be used exclusively for the
Project; such vehicles and equipment for the Project Unit to be
used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 2.08. (a) BANVI shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-7
(b) BANVI: (i) shall maintain, and cause every Participating
Bank and the borrowers of loans under Part B (3) of the Project
to maintain, records adequate to record the progress of the Proj-
ect (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available
to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and in respect to the Project, any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank quarterly Project cost state-
ments and all such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan so made available to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) BANVI shall enable the Bank's representatives to exam-
ine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of BANVI and any relevant records and documents.
(d) BANVI shall cause the Participating Banks and all bor-
rowers of loans under Part B of the Project: (i) to enable BANVI's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites in-
cluded in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of such loans and, in respect of the Project, any relevant
records and documents; and (ii) to furnish BANVI with all such
information as BANVI shall reasonably request.


﻿8-
Section 2.09. (a) BANVI shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
under the Subsidiary Contract, under the Fideicomiso Contract,
under every Participating Bank Contract and under the Contractual
Arrangements, and othir matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
(b) BANVI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by BANVI of its obligations under this Agreement,
under the Subsidiary Contract and under the Fideicamiso Contract
or the performance by BANVI or, respectively, the Participating
Banks and any of the Instituciones, of their respective obligations
under the applicable Participating Bank Contract and the Contrac-
tual Arrangements.
Section 2.10. BANVI shall:
(a) monitor continuously the progress of the Project in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(b) evaluate such progress and compare the same with the
implementation schedule of the Project referred to in Section
2.01 of this Agreement;
(c) prepare each quarterly progress report; and


﻿-9-
(d) furnish to the Bank the reports in (c) above within
two months from the end of each such quarter.
Section 2.11. (a) BANVI shall take or cause to be taken all
such actions as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed
and in such sites as to be determined by agreement between the
Bank and BANVI, all such land and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the fa-
cilities included in Part A of the Project and shall furnish to
the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes of Part A of the Project.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above
BANVI shall furnish the Bank, not later than six months after
the date of this Agreement, or such later date as the Bank shall
determine, with a schedule and timetable satisfactory to the Bank
which, inter alia, will show the availability of, and actions to
be taken for the acquisition of, the land and rights in respect
of land referred to in (a) above.
Section 2.12. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BANVI
shall:
(a) transfer the title to the land on which the schools re-
ferred to in Part A (1) of the Project will be constructed, and
all rights in respect of such land, to the Borrower's Ministry of
Education;


﻿-10-
(b) ensure that such transfer of title is accomplished by
way of grant as and when needed for purposes of Part A (1) of the
Project; and
(c) furnish to the Bank, promptly after such transfer of
title, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights
in respect of land, are available to the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BANVI
Section 3.01. BANVI shall, at all times, carry on its oper-
ations in accordance with appropriate business, financial and
engineering practices and under the supervision of experienced
and qualified management assisted by adequate, experienced and
qualified staff.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree;
BANVI shall:
(a) carry out a management study for the purpose of: (i)
defining specific plans, tasks and personnel to undertake an
urban reconstruction program in Guatemala; (ii) providing policy
guidelines for the evaluation of the impact of Earthquake recon-
struction efforts upon BANVI's normal operations; (iii) ensuring
the ways for an adequate coordination of BANVI's departments,
among such departments and with other agencies of the Borrower
engaged in the urban reconstruction program referred to in (i)
above; and (iv) streamlining and reviewing BANVI's organization
with a view to improving its accounting, cost determination and
reporting, loan collection, and economic and financial planning;
(b) carry out the study referred to in (a) above, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and


﻿-12-
(c) after completion of the study referred to in (a) above,
review with the Bank the recommendations thereof prior to the im-
plementation of such recommendations.
Section 3.03. (a) BANVI shall maintain an organization satis-
factory to the Bank for the execution of the Project.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) above, and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, BANVI shall: (i) create, and maintain
until the Closing Date, the position of Vice President for Recon-
struction; (ii) afford the Bank, until the Closing Date, a reason-
able opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience
of any person proposed for appointment to such position of Vice
President for Reconstruction, before making such appointment;
(iii) establish, and maintain until the Closing Date, a Project
Unit which shall be charged with such functions, and shall be
staffed in such manner, as is set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agree-
ment between the Bank and BANVI; and (iv) afford the Bank a reason-
able opportunity to comment on any proposed reorganization of BANVI,
including the advantageousness of implementing the recommendations
of the study referred to in Section 3.02 (a) above.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
and subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of Section 3.02
of this Agreement, BANVI shall take all necessary measures to
ensure that by December 31, 1977, and at all times thereafter,
loans in arrears shall not exceed twenty-five per cent (25%) of
the total number of loans made by BANVI, including loans made
for purposes of the Project, and outstanding at any particular
time.


﻿- 13 -
(b) For the purposes of this Section "loans in arrears" means
loans made by BANVI, or installments thereof, whether or not secured
by collateral, which remain unpaid three months after the agreed
maturity of such loans or installments.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BANVI
shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain, and renew all
rights, powers and franchises which are necessary or useful for the
purposes of carrying out its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 3.06. BANVI shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.07. BANVI shall take all steps necessary to acquire,
in the manner provided for in Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement,
all monies and assets existing within the Fideicomiso upon termina-
tion of the Fideicomiso Contract.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) BANVI shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) BANVI shall establish and maintain, and cause every
Participating Bank and, whenever feasible, every borrower of loans
under Part B (3) of the Project to establish and maintain, separate
accounts for the Project and shall register, and cause each such
Participating Bank and each such borrower to register in such
accounts all receipts and payments for or in connection with the
Project, in accordance with appropriate accounting practices con-
sistently applied.
Section 4.02. BANVI shall: (i) have, and cause every Partici-
pating Bank to have, their respective accounts and financial state-
ments (Project cost statement, balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each respective fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish, and, in respect of the Project, cause every
Participating Bank to furnish to BANVI, as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end of such year,
(A) certified copies of their respective financial statements for
such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by such
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank, and cause


﻿-15 -
every Participating Bank to furnish to BANVI, such other informa-
tion concerning the accounts and financial statements of BANVI
and of each such Participating Bank and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) BANVI represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any
debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed in
writing by BANVI to the Bank.
(b) BANVI undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets of BANVI as
security for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure
the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on
the Loan and that in the creation of any such lien express provi-
sion will be made to that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii)
if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of BANVI as
security for any debt, BANVI shall grant, at no cost to the Bank,
an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan;
provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt matur-
ing not more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.


﻿-16-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of BANVI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 294 months after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Sec-
tion, the Bank shall promptly notify BANVI of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstrurtion and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
For BANVI:
60 Avenida 1-22
Zona 4
Guatemala, Guatemala
Cable address:
BANVIGUAT


﻿-18-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BANVI may be taken or executed by BANVI's
President or such other person or persons as BANVI's President
shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. BANVI shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of BANVI, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by BANVI pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿-19-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ E. Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE LA VIVIENDA
By Is/ Mauricio Gonzales
Authorized Representative


﻿-20-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   (a) Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
shall be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August
1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
(b) All civil works shall be executed over a period of three
and one-half years involving three phases of development. Civil
works contracts shall be tendered separately for each phase and
for each site. However, contractors shall be permitted to bid
for one or more civil works contract to be let under each phase.
(c) Subject to (b) above, for bidding purposes, contracts
included in this Part A shall be grouped, to the extent practicable,
in such manner as shall be agreed between the Bank and BANVI prior
to issuing the invitation to bid, so as to permit bulk procurement
and to encourage competitive bidding.
(d) The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to utilize
the Emergency Procedures in a manner consistent with the Guidelines.
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.


﻿. - 21 -
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids; Preference for
Manufacturers Established in the territories of the member
countries of the Central American Common Market
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods:
(i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid
the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufac-
tured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-
supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to BANVI of inland freight and other ex-
penditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
2.   Bids shall be compared in accordance with the following rules:
(a) the term "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted
by a manufacturer established in the territories of the member
countries of the Central American Common Market for goods manufac-
tured or processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably deter-
mined by the Bank) in such territories; any other bid will be
deemed to be a "Non-Central American Bid";


﻿-22-
(b) the bid price under a Central American Bid will be the
sum of the following amounts:
(i) the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii) freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the site designated in the specifica-
tions; and
(c) for the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American
Bid with any Central American Bid, the price under a Non-Central
American Bid will be the sum of the following amounts:
(i) the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of such goods;
(ii) insurance costs to the port of entry;
(iii) half the amount of any taxes on the importation of
such goods into the territories of the Borrower
which generally apply to non-exempt importers, or
15% of the amounts specified in (i) and (ii) above,
whichever shall be the lower; and
(iv) freight insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods from the port of entry to the site
designated in the specifications.
3.   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the margin of
preference to be granted.


﻿-23 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. BANVI shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be fol-
lowed, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
shall be furnished by BANVI to the Bank for its comments before
the applicants are notified of BANVI's decision, and BANVI shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for: (i) civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) vehicles
and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, BANVI shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising-procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿-24-
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, BANVI shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report by the Project Unit on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said Project Unit and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform BANVI and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
BANVI shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The


﻿-25 -
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly in-
form BANVI and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿-26                                       0
SCHEDULE 2
The Project Unit
1.   The Project Unit will operate under the Vice President for
Reconstruction, will report directly to him through the Project
Administrator referred to in 3 (a) below, and will be staffed as
indicated in paragraph 3 below.
2.   The Project Unit will have, inter alia, the following func-
tions:
(a) organization of the communities to be served;
(b) training for Beneficiaries and, if required, for the
borrowers of loans under Parts B (2) and (3) of the Project;
(c) initiation of self-help and mutual aid works;
(d) promotion of opportunities for small business enterprises;
(e) appointment of members of its staff to the Selection
Committee;
(f) Project supervision, costing, control, accounting and
procurement; and
(g) liaison with the consultants referred to in Section 2.05
of this Agreement.


﻿-27 -
3.   The Project Unit will be staffed as indicated below; such
staff to be charged, inter alia, with the following specific func-
tions:
(a) a Project Administrator: coordination of Project activi-
ties;
(b) a Senior Engineer: overall Project supervision and liai-
son with consultants;
(c) an Architect/Planner: revision of needs of Project mate-
rials loans and of Project architectural designs;
(d) an Accountant/Financial Analyst: Project accounting and
liaison with BANVI's Accounting Department;
(e) a Business Promotion Specialist: promotion of develop-
ment and organization of small-scale (artesanfa) businesses among
Beneficiaries;
(f) a Construction Materials Manufacturing Specialist: train-
ing of Beneficiaries in on-site manufacturing of building materials;
(g) a Senior Social Worker: development of basic criteria
for the selection of Beneficiaries, carrying on interviews with
prospective Beneficiaries and setting up of self-help and mutual
aid Beneficiaries groups;


﻿- 28-
(h) a Community Development Worker: organization of Bene-
ficiaries work groups and training of such groups for cooperative
efforts;
(i) an Architect/Contractor: preparation of Project expan-
sion plans and development of various techniques and materials for
expansion of Project site facilities and structures; and
(j) three Resident Field Engineers: each one to supervise
each Project site.


﻿-29 -
SCHEDULE 3
Operating Policies and Procedures
I.   Allocation of Plots under Part A (1) of the Project
1.   Information concerning the availability of plots will be
disseminated by BANVI prior to the completion of such plots,
through the mass media, public meetings or other means satis-
factory to the Bank.
2.   BANVI will receive applications for such plots, such applica-
tions to be evaluated by the Selection Committee which will pre-
pare a list of qualified applicants in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Bank which will include the following: (a)
applicant and members of the applicant's household will not own
a house at the time of the filing of the application, the fulfill-
ment of such criterion to be evidenced, inter alia, in the manner
described in Article 49 of BANVI's Organic Law; (b): (i) the
applicant's household has been displaced due to loss of dwelling
or shelter as a direct consequence of the Earthquake, or (ii) the
applicant's residency had been established in squatter settlement
or under inadequate housing conditions, for a period of not less
than two years prior to the Earthquake; (c) the applicant's
household aggregate monthly income will not exceed one hundred and
fifty Quetzales (Q150); (d) the applicant's household will be able
to afford a monthly payment ranging between nine and twenty-four
Quetzales (9 to 24Q) for purposes of shelter and other utilities;
(e) the applicant and the members of the applicant's household


﻿- 30 -
will have the intention to reside on the assigned plot with the
understanding that the housing unit to be provided to him will not
be a completed dwelling; (f) the applicant and the members of the
applicant's household will have the willingness and ability to
undertake the completion of the housing unit; (g) BANVI will re-
serve its right of first refusal on every plot transferred to
every applicant; provided, however, that such right shall cease
and terminate after a period of not less than ten years from the
date on which the title on each such plot is vested on each such
applicant; and (h) the applicant or the applicant's household will
have to participate in such mutual help and community development
activities as determined by BANVI. The applicant and the members
of the applicant's household will be screened by the Selection
Committee which may, in addition, consider special construction/
leadership skills. If the applicants that meet, at the satisfaction
of the Selection Committee, the above criteria exceed the number
of plots available, the final selection will be made by lottery.
The final list of allottees will be confirmed by the Selection
Committee.
3.   Every plot will be transferred to allottees by means of a free-
hold sale secured by a mortgage. The price of the purchase of each
plot will: (i) include the cost of land, site development, on-site
infrastructure, community facilities, building materials loans,
core housing (where appropriate), proportionate share of off-site
infrastructure and administrative and capital surcharges, all as
allocated by BANVI to such plot; (ii) be determined so as to en-
sure BANVI the satisfactory recovery of BANVI's production costs,
as shown in (i) above, in respect of each such plot; and (iii) be
wholly financed out of loans under Part B (1) of the Project, which


﻿-31 -
will have a repayment term of twenty (20) years, including a grace
period not exceeding two (2) years during which the Beneficiaries
will pay interest; the rate of interest, charged on outstanding
balances of principal, will be of four per cent (4%) per annum.
4.   Loans to assist every Beneficiary in financing the purchase
of building materials will have the same terms and rate of interest
referred in 3 (iii) above.
II. Loan Program under Part B (2) of the Project
1.   Information concerning the availability of loans will be
adequately advertised by BANVI.
2.   Every borrower of loans under Part B (2) of the Project will
have to fulfill the following criteria: (a) applicant's dwelling
has been totally or partially destroyed, or damaged, as a direct
consequence of the Earthquake; (b) applicant or members of the
applicant's household will: (i) be in possession of the plot on
which the applicant's dwelling will be rebuilt or repaired;
(ii) have an aggregate monthly income of not more than one hundred
and fifty Quetzales (Q150); (iii) have, in the aggregate, the fi-
nancial ability to afford the monthly payments under the applicable
loan agreement with each respective Borrower; and (iv) have the
intention to reside for a reasonable period of time in the dwelling
to be rebuilt or repaired.
3.   Every loan under Part B (2) of the Project will: (a) not
exceed the aggregate amount of one thousand Quetzales (Q1,000) and
will be made in advances not exceeding two hundred Quetzales (Q200)


﻿- 32-
each; (b) have a repayment term of twenty (20) years, including
a grace period not exceeding two (2) years during which the bor-
rowers will pay interest; and (c) bear an interest rate of four
percent (4%) per annum on outstanding balances of principal.
4.   All purchases, payments and works to be financed out of the
proceeds of loans made under Part B (2) of the Project will be
supervised by the Participating Banks or, in some instances of
6 (b) below, by BANVI.
5.   Every Participating Bank Contract will include the necessary
provisions to comply with paragraphs 2, 3, and 4 above and with
Sections 2.08 (b) and (d), 2.09 (b), 4.01 (b) and 4.02 of this
Agreement.
6.   Participating Bank Cont-racts may assume the following modali-
ties, account being taken of the number of loans to be made, the
economic utilization of the existing resources and facilities,
and the better implementation of Part B (2) of the Project: (a) In
the case of every Participating Bank Contract with Participating
Banks other than Banco de Guatemala, the applicable Participating
Bank will assume the credit risk against the payment of a fee to
be determined by agreement between BANVI and such Participating
Bank; (b) In the case of every Participating Bank Contract with
Banco de Guatemala, BANVI will make the loans to the borrowers
using the services and facilities of Banco de Guatemala, and will
have such rights to use such services and facilities as will be
agreed upon between Banco de Guatemala and BANVI in respect of
each such Participating Bank Contract.


﻿-33 -
III. Loans under Part B (3) of the Project
1.   Criteria for eligibility for such loans will be determined
by agreement between the Bank and BANVI.
2.   After such criteria shall have been established, BANVI shall
receive and evaluate applications for such loans and shall be re-
sponsible for (i) their approval; and (ii) subject to Section 2.04
(c) of this Agreement, for the establishment of the specific terms
of such loans in a manner consistent with the sound economic and
financial analysis to be carried out for each such loan application.


