CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1315-T GU
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project -
Urban Sites and Services Component)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 2, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 2, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF GUATE-
MALA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making this Loan (hereinafter called the Loan) as herein-
after provided;
(B) the Bank has determined that the Borrower is eligible
to receive this Loan as an intermediate term loan, as that term
is defined in Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors
of the Bank establishing an Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third
Window (hereinafter called the Fund) and upon the terms and con-
ditions set forth in such Resolution;
(C) the Administrator of the Fund (hereinafter called the
Administrator), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
the Resolution referred to in (B) above, is obligated to pay to
the Bank semi-annually from the resources of the Fund an amount
equal to four per cent (4%) per annum of the outstanding amounts
of principal on intermediate term loans, of which this Loan is
one; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the re-
spective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:.
(a) BANVI means the Borrower's Banco Nacional de la Vivienda,
a decentralized public institution, established by Decree No. 2-73
of the Borrower's Congress, dated January 2, 1973 as amended by
Decree No. 42-73 of such Congress; such Decree No. 2-73, as so
amended, and the regulations thereto, hereinafter called "BANVI's
Organic Law";
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and BANVI of even date herewith, as the same may be amdended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;


﻿-3-
(c) "Subsidiary Contract" means the contract to be entered
into between the Borrower, Banco de Guatemala and BANVI, pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as such contract may be
amended from time to time;
(d) "Beneficiary" means a natural person, within the eligi-
bility criteria set forth in Part 1.2 in Schedule 3 to the Project
Agreement, to whom BANVI has allocated a dwelling plot under Part
A (1) of the Project;
(e) "Participating Bank" means a banking institution estab-
lished within the Borrower's territories (including Banco de
Guatemala) or a credit institution established within the Borrower's
territories (including such institutions as set forth in paragraphs
(a), (b) and (c) of Article 3 of BANVI's Reglamento 2ggg la con-
cesi6n de cr6ditos con recursos del Fondo Extraordinario Especfico
de Reconstruccin No. 1.01. 17, dated May 4, 1976, approved by
BANVI's Junta Directiva by Resoluci6n No. 278 Acta No. 106), with
which BANVI has entered or intends to enter into a contract pur-
suant to Section 2.04 (b) of the Project Agreement; each such con-
tract hereinafter called "Participating Bank Contract".
(f) "INDE" means the Borrower's Instituto Nacional de Elec-
trificaci6n established by Decree No. 1287 of the Borrower's Con-
gress, as amended, or any successor thereto;
(g) "EMPAGUA" means Empresa Municipal de Agua de la Ciudad
de Guatemala established by Acuerdo of the Consejo de la Munici-
palid de Guatemala, dated November 28, 1972 and published in the
Official Gazette on December 7, 1972, or any successor thereto;


﻿-4-
(h) "INTECAP" means the Borrower's Instituto Tecnico de
Capacitaci6n y Productividad, established by Decree No. 17-72
of the Borrower's Congress, or any successor thereto;
(i) "Vice President for Reconstruction" means a Vicepresidente
within the scope of Article 35 of BANVI's Organic Law, who will be
in charge of, inter alia, the operations of the Project Unit, the
liaison with other agencies of the Borrower involved in the Bor-
rower's urban reconstruction program and the coordination of the
departments of BANVI involved in such program.
(j) "Project Unit" means the unit described in Schedule 2
to the Project Agreement;
(k) "Banco de Guatemala" means the Borrower's Bank estab-
lished by Decree No. 215 of the Borrower's Congress, dated Decem-
ber 20, 1945 as amended by Decrees No. 331, 1314 and 1714 of the
Borrower's Congress, as such Decree No. 215 may be amended from
time to time;
(1) "Quetzales" and the symbol "Q" mean Quetzales in the
currency of the Borrower;
(m) "Earthquake" means the earthquake that on February 4,
1976 affected the Borrower's territories and the term includes the
aftershocks of such earthquake;
(n) "Selection Committee" means a committee whose membership
will include the Senior Social Worker Specialist of the Project
Unit staff, as well as other members thereof and other BANVI staff,


﻿-5-
all of them appointed or to be appointed by the Vice President for
Reconstruction;
(o) "Contractual Arrangements" means the contractual arrange-
ments referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement and in Section
2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement;
(p) "Fideicomiso Contract" means the contract required by
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement for the purpose of estab-
lishing a Fideicomiso (hereinafter called the Fideicomiso) within
the limits of Articles 766 through 793 of the Borrower's Commer-
cial Code enacted by the Borrower's Congress Decree No. 2-70,.
dated January 28, 1970, such Commercial Code hereinafter called
the "Commercial Code";
(q) "Institutiones" means INDE, EMPAGUA, INTECAP or any other
relevant agency of the Borrower acceptable to the Bank with which
BANVI shall have entered into Contractual Arrangements; and
(r) "Emergency Procedures" means the accelerated procurement
procedures for national emergency situations permitted by Legisla-
tive Decree No. 11-71, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
No. 73, dated March 8, 1971, and by the regulations of such Legis-
lative Decree.
The words defined in (d) and (e) of this Section as importing
the singular number, include the plural number.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-7-
per annum on the principal amourt of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
four and eighty-five hundredths per cent (4.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time; provided, however, that if the Administrator shall at
any time determine that the resources of the Fund shall not be
sufficient to pay to the Bank at the next succeeding semi-annual
interest payment date of the Loan the amount scheduled to be paid
by the Administrator at that interest payment date as specified in
paragraph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement, the Borrower
shall, upon notification by the Administrator of such determination
and the amount of the resulting shortfall, pay additional interest
on such principal amount of the Loan equal to such shortfall.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Banco de Guatemala is designated as representa-
tive of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿8
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause BANVI to perform, in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement, all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable BANVI to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall enter, and cause Banco de Guatemala
to enter, with BANVI into: (i) a Subsidiary Contract whereby the
proceeds of the Loan shall be made available to BANVI and (ii) a
Fideicomiso Contract, whereby an amount of not less than twenty-
two million three hundred thousand Quetzales (Q22,300,000) shall be
made available to BANVI; both such Subsidiary Contract and Fidei-
comiso Contract shall be made under such terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank, including inter alia the
terms and conditions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise, and cause Banco de Guatemala
to exercise, their respective rights under the Subsidiary Contract
and the Fideicomiso Contract in such manner as to protect the in-
terests of the Borrower, the Bank and Banco de Guatemala and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall


﻿-9-
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate,
terminate or waive such Subsidiary Contract or Fideicomiso Contract
or any provision thereof and shall cause Banco de Guatemala not to
assign, nor amend, abrogate, terminate or waive such Subsidiary
Contract or Fideicomiso Contract or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, as required for purposes of
the Project, cause Participating Banks owned by the Borrower to
enter with BANVI into Participating Bank Contracts.
Section 3.03. The Borrower undertakes to make, not later than
October 1, 1976 and every October 1, thereafter, its required
contributions to BANVI's capital in accordance with Article 7 (b)
of BANVI's Organic Law, or in lieu thereof, with other legal arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause INDE, EMPAGUA and INTE-
CAP or such other relevant agencies of the Borrower as shall be
acceptable to the Bank, to cooperate with BANVI in the carrying out
of Part A of the Project, to make with BANVI the necessary con-
tractual arrangements for the purpose (the Contractual Arrangements)
and to perform in accordance with such Contractual Arrangements,
if any, all of their respective obligations therein set forth so
as to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such,lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; proviued, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strativy r bdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the 7Lai secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by .o2equivalert lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing und-rtaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at .:e time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿- 11 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, not later than one year from the date of this
Agreement, take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that: (i) upon ter-
mination of the Fideicomiso Contract, all monies and assets exist-
ing within the Fideicomiso at the time of such termination, will
be transferred to BANVI; (ii) such transference will be made by
way of grant and free from any charges or liens; and (iii) monies
and assets so transferred will be utilized by BANVI in furtherance
of BANVI's objects as set forth in Article 2 of BANVI's Organic
Law.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) BANVI shall have failed to perform any of its respective
covenants, agreements or obligations under the Project Agreement,
the Subsidiary Contract, the Fideicomiso Contract, any Participating
Bank Contract or the Contractual Arrangements, if any;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that BANVI will be able to perform any of its
respective obligations under the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary
Contract, the Fideicomiso Contract, any Participating Bank Con-
tract, or the Contractual Arrangements, if any;
(c) the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
BANVI or for the suspension of its operations;
(d) the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have divested BANVI of any of the functions or powers vested in it
as of the date of this Agreement, which are necessary for the effi-
cient carrying out of the Project;


﻿- 13 -
(e) BANVI's Organic Law shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of BANVI to carry out the Project;
(f) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Banco de Guatemala, any Participating Bank
or any of the Instituciones will be able to perform their respec-
tive covenants, agreements or obligations umder, respectively, the
Subsidiary Loan Contract or the Fideicomiso Contract, or the appli-
cable Participating Bank Contract, or any of the applicable Con-
tractual Arrangements;
(g) the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
Banco de Guatemala,, any Participating Bank or any of the Institu-
ciones, or for the suspension of their operations;
(h) the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have divested Banco de Guatemala, any Participating Bank or any
of the Instituciones of any of the functions or powers vested in
any of them as of the date of this Agreement, which are necessary
for the eff"cient carrying out of the Project;
(i) a Participating Bank shall have failed to perform any
of its respective covenants, agreements or obligations under the
applicable Participating Bank Contract; and
(J) a Participating Bank shall have become unable to pay its
debts as they mature or any action shall have been taken by a
Participating Bank or by others whereby any of the property of


﻿such Participating Bank shall or may be distributed among its
creditors; provided, however, that if any event referred to in
paragraphs (f), (g), (h), (i) or (j) of this Section shall have
occurred and affected a Participating Bank, the Bank may at its
option suspend the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Loan Account only in respect of amounts relent or proposed
to be relent to such Participating Bank.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
Any event specified in paragraphs (a), (c), (d), (e), (g),
(h), (i) and (J) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and BANVI.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of
BANVI has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary cor-
porate and governmental action; and
(b) that the execution of the Subsidiary Contract and the
Fideicomiso Contract on behalf of the Borrower, BANVI and Banco
de Guatemala, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BANVI's Junta Directiva, and is legally binding upon
BANVI in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Contract and the Fideicomiso Contract
have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, BANVI and
Banco de Guatemala, respectively, and are legally binding upon the
Borrower, BANVI and Banco de Guatemala, in accordance with its terms.
9


﻿- 16 -
Section 6.03. The date of November 1, 1976, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministro de Finanzas
Palacio Nacional
Guatemala
Guatemala
Cable address:
MINIFINANZAS
Guatemala
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     140098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ Col. A. Maldonado
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ E. Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Anount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivale        to be Financed
(1) Civil works and            6,615,000           50%
professional ser-
vices other than
those in Cate-
gory (5)
(2) Credit Program             2,000,000          50% of amounts
Part B (1) of                                 disbursed by
the Project                                  BANVI to Bene-
ficiaries
(3) Credit Program             2,500,000          50% of amounts
Part B (2) of                                disbursed by
the Project                                  BANVI to Partic-
ipating Banks
or other borrowers
(4) Credit Program             2,040,000          50% of amounts
Part B (3) of                                disbursed by
the Project                                  BANVI to building
materials manu-
facturers


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Consultant Services          600,000          100%i
(6) Vehicles and                 500,000
Equipment for the
Project Unit
(a) imported                                 100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) imported but                             85% of local
locally pro-                             expenditures
cured
(7) Unallocated                5,7h5,000
TOTAL     20,000,000


﻿- 21 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or nupply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000,
may be made in respect of fees under Categories (1) and (5) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date but
after May 1, 1976; and


﻿- 22 -
(b) under any Category of Part 1 of this Schedule unless,
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, (i) a Vice President for
Reconstruction has been appointed; (ii) the Project Unit has been
established; and (iii) the study referred to in Section 3.02 (a)
of the Project Agreement has been substantially completed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's reconstruction program,
designed to provide housing for urban low-income families with
emphasis on those directly affected by the Ea;thquake. The Project
consists of the following Parts:
Part A    Sites and Services
(1) The preparation of, and provision of the basic infra-
structure such as access roads, water supply, sewerage
facilities, electrical connections, paved footpaths,
streets, storm drainage, public lighting, open spaces,
community centers, schools and markets for, about 10,000
dwelling plots to be located in sites, satisfactory
to the Bank, within the metropolitan area of Guatemala
City. Service levels for such plots are detailed in
Annex A to this Schedule. In addition, subject to the
prior approval of the Bank, similar sites may be devel-
oped within the Municipios referred to in Part B (2)
of the Project.
(2) In addition to (1) above, each site will be provided,
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, with special plots
structured so as to house small-scale commercial and
manufacturing industries, such special plots to be
leased by BANVI.


﻿Part B    Credit Program
(1) The provision of loans to Beneficiaries, including loans
for self-help construction.
(2) The provision, through Participating Banks, of about
8,000 loans for house reconstruction and rehabilitation
to low-income households affected by the Earthquake with-
in the following of the Borrower's Municipios: Sololf,
Santa Cruz del Quichg. Totonicapfn, Antigua, Chimaltenango,
Salama, El Progreso., J1lapa, Zacapa and Puerto Barrir s.
(3) The provision of loahs, primarily for fixed assets and
workshops, to small and medium building materials manu-
facturers.
Part C    Technical Assistance
The provision of technical services to:
(1) BANVI, for assisting it in the strengthening of its
overall activities with a view to promoting future
projects in the urban sector;
(2) Beneficiaries, for assisting them in, inter alia,
self-help housing construction and community organization;
and


﻿- 25 -
(3) Borrowers of loans under Part B (2) of the Project, for
assisting them in home reconstruction and rehabilitation.
*              *              * P
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿- 26 -
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 2
Service levels for, and approximate areas and description of,
dwelling plots under Part A to Schedule 2 of the Project will be
substantially as follows:
Service level I:    plots ranging from T5.6 square meters to
130.5 square meters plot, each with individual
water, sewerage and surface drainage connec-
tion to the main network.
Service level II:   either an 81 square meters or 94 square meters
plot, with a 5.6 square meters of construction
sanitary core, consisting of a water toilet,
shower, laundry sink, electrical fixtures,
and enclosing walls and roof.
Service level III: an 81 square meters plot with a basic expand-
able one-room structure of an approximate
area of 26.8 square meters inclusive of the
sanitary core described for Service level II.
Percentage of each service level for each site will be
approximately as follows: Service Level I, 10%; Service Level II,
50%; and Service Level III, 40%; or such other percentage as to be
determined by agreement between the Bank and BANVI.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1983                                  335,000
July 15, 1983                                     350,000
January 15, 1984                                  355,000
July 15, 1984                                     365,000
January 15, 1985                                  375,000
July 15, 1985                                     385,000
January 15, 1986                                  390,000
July 15, 1986                                     405,000
January 15, 1987                                  410,000
July 15, 1987                                     420,000
January 15, 1988                                  435,000
July 15, 1988                                     440,000
January 15, 1989                                  455,000
July 15, 1989                                     465,000
January 15, 1990                                  475,000
July 15, 1990                                     485,000
January 15, 1991                                  500,000
July 15, 1991                                     510,000
January 15, 1992                                  525,000
July 15, 1992                                     535,000
January 15, 1993                                  550,000
July 15, 1993                                     560,000
January 15, 1994                                  575,000
July 15, 1994                                     590,000
January 15, 1995                                  605,000
July 15, 1995                                     620,000
January 15, 1996                                  630,000
July 15, 1996                                     650,000
January 15, 1997                                  665,000
July 15, 1997                                     68o,ooo
January 15, 1998                                  700,000
July 15, 1998                                     715,000
II


﻿- 28 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)
January 15, 1999                                  730,000
July 15, 1999                                     750,000
January 15, 2000                                  T65,000
July 15, 2000                                     790,000
January 15, 2001                                  810,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-29-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                    1.05%
before maturity
More than three years but                    2.10%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                      3.90%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                   5.65%
not more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but                  7.45%
not more than twenty-one years
before maturity
More than twenty-one years                   8.15%
but not more than twenty-three
years before maturity
More than twenty-three years                 8.85%
before maturity


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Contract
and of the Fideicomiso Contract
I.   Subsidiary Contract
(a) BANVI will receive the equivalent of the proceeds of
the Loan exclusively for the purpose of carrying out the Project;
(b) The Borrower will make the equivalent of the proceeds
of the Loan available to BANVI in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement and, subject to (c) and (d) below, BANVI will repay
amounts equivalent to the principal of the Loan, and interest there-
on, in accordance with the terms thereof, provided, however, that
BANVI will not repay: (i) any amount on account of interest on the
Loan accrued and payable on or before the date on which plots under
Part A of the Project are ready to be allocated or leased, as the
case may be; and (ii) any amount on account of the charge referred
to in Section 2.05 of this Agreement;
(c) The Borrower will bear the foreign exchange risk; and
(d) BANVI will be paid its annual administrative expenses
in respect of the administration of the proceeds of the Loan.
II. Fideicomiso Contract
(a) The Fideicomiso will last for twenty-five years from
the date of its creation;


﻿- 31 -
(b) The Borrower will be the Fideicomisario, Banco de Guatemala
the Fideicomitente and BANVI the Fiduciario, "Fideicomisario",
"Fideicomitente" and "Fiduciario" having the meaning such words
have in accordance with Articles 766 through 793 of the Commercial
Code;
(c) BANVI will pay back into the Fideicomiso: (i) every amount
received by BANVI as repayment of principal of loans made out of
the proceeds of the Fideicomiso; and (ii) subject to paragraph (d)
below, every amount received by BANVI as payment of interest and
other charges on loans referred to in (i) above;
(d) From the payments received by BANVI on account of interest
and other charges on loans made by BANVI out of the proceeds of the
Fideicomiso, BANVI will segregate such amounts as will be neces-
sary to: (i) be provided with additional funds for use in meeting
any shortfall in payments to be made by BANVI under the Subsidiary
Contract; (ii) constitute a reserve in accordance with sound fi-
nancial and accounting practices consistently applied, on such terms
as to be agreed from time to time between Banco de Guatemala and
BANVI, against losses on loans made by BANVI out of the proceeds
of the Fideicomiso; and (iii) be paid its annual administrative
expenses in respect of the administration of the Fideicomiso; and
(e) The Fideicomiso Contract will express that the Fideicomiso
is created for the sole purpose of BANVI's carrying out of the
Project.


