Document of
FILE COpy                     The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2054-P0
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
May 11, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Until 1971                       1 US dollar           =    28.75 escudos
1 escudo               =   0.035 US dollar
1972                      1 US dollar            =   27.25 escudos
1 escudo               =   0.037 US dollar
1973                       1 US dollar           =   24.67 escudos
1 escudo               =   0.041 US dollar
1974                       1 US dollar           =   25.41 escudos
1 escudo               =   0.039 US dollar
1975                       1 US dollar           =   25.44 escudos
1 escudo               =   0.039 US dollar
1976                       1 US dollar           =   30.00 escudos
1 escudo               =   0.033 US dollar
1977 (Feb. 25)             1 US dollar           =   32.92 escudos
1 escudo               =   0.030 US dollar
1977 (Feb. 26)             1 US dollar           =   38.73 escudos
1 escudo               =   0.026 US dollar
(In the report the exchange rate used for conversions
is escudos 30 per U.S. dollar)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BFN                        Banco de Fomento Nacional
CGD                        Caixa Geral de Depositos
DFC                        development finance company
EC                         European Economic Community
EFTA                       European Free Trade Association
EIB                        European Investment Bank
GFCF                       gross fixed capital formation
IAPMEI                     Instituto de Apoio as, Pequenas e Medias
Empresas Industriais (Institute for the
Support of Small and Medium Industrial
Enterprises)
IERR                       internal economic rate of return
IFRR                       internal financial rate of return
PISEE                      Programa de Investimentos do Sector
Empresarial do Estado (Investment
Program for Public Sector Enterprises)
PMEs                       pequenas e medias empresas (small and
medium enterprises)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN), with the guarantee of the Republic of
Portugal, for the equivalent of $50 million to help finance industrial lending.
The loan would be repayable substantially in conformity with the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to subprojects approved under the
project. The maximum term of individual subloans will be twelve years and
commitments are expected to be completed within 3 years; thus the Bank loan
would be repaid within 15 years. The interest rate on the Bank loan would be
8.2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Portugal:  An Economy in Transition"
(No. 1408a-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 16, 1977.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        The five years preceding the revolution of April 1974 were years of
rapid economic growth for Portugal. GDP increased at an average rate of 7 per-
cent per annum with industry and construction growing at 10 percent and 12.5
percent respectively. Investment levels were high -- 21 percent of GNP on
average during the period. Foreign investment was attracted to Portugal by
the low labor costs, and the regime's support for the private sector reflected
in substantial incentives to industry. The apparent political stability also
induced and stimulated private investment activity. The rapid growth in
Western Europe during the period contributed to an increase of 9 percent per
annum in Portugal's exports (though nearly 20 percent of the total went to the
colonies), while the balance of payments also benefited from large numbers of
tourists and remittances from the huge migrant labor force (over one million,
equivalent to one-third of Portugal's labor force). As a result, despite the
costs of maintaining a large colonial army; the balance of payments showed
substantial surpluses, with accumulated foreign exchange reserves reaching the
high level of $1.7 billion at end 1973 in addition to a stock of gold of about
28 million ounces.
4.        The rapid growth concealed a number of fundamental weaknesses.
Agricultural output in 1973 was 3.4 percent below the 1968 level, partly as a
result of the emphasis given to industrialization and the exodus of the rural
labor force. The heavy protection given to domestic manufacturers, together
with easy access to credit at low interest rates, boosted private sector
profits and savings, but at the expense of equitable income distribution.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
By 1973, the bottom 50 percent of households were receiving only 14 percent of
total income while the top 5 percent received 40 percent. Economic planning
was essentially indicative and government developmental spending stayed at a
low level as one third of total public expenditure was absorbed by defense.
The social services remained under-developed. Economic power was concentrated
in the hands of a small number of powerful companies and individuals. The
distribution of land ownership was characterized by large estates, especially
in the south of the country. Significant sections of the population, includ-
ing particularly the laborers on large agricultural estates often farmed by
absentee landlords, had failed to benefit much from the high growth rate.
Total employment in the economy actually declined. The low unemployment
level (about 3 percent in 1970-73 period) was a consequence of massive
emigration (about 550,000 during 1970-73) and a growing colonial army.
Recent Developments
5.        Among the major objectives of the revolution of April 1974, was the
transfer of economic power from the large private industrialists and landlords
to the state, and the redistribution of income to the workers in both the
rural and urban areas. During the six month period ending September 1975,
a substantial transformation of the institutional framework and ownership
pattern of the Portuguese economy took place. There was the nationalization
of the banking system, the power sector, and insurance, and the take-over by
the Government of some of the large industrial groups and major producers in
industries such as steel, cement, petroleum and petro-chemicals and tobacco as
well as most modes of public transport, radio and television. Rural workers
took over the large farms in the south of the country with part of this being
later legalized through the passage of land reform legislation. The overall
effect of these changes was to establish a quite different relationship
between management and labor, which was (perhaps inevitably) initially
characterized by indiscipline, absenteeism and lowered productivity.
6.        While this restructuring was taking place, the economy was being
severely affected by the impact of the world recession. This had a major
impact on the balance of payments which has deteriorated sharply since 1974.
The current account balance of payments dropped from a substantial surplus
in 1973 to a deficit of $800 million both in 1974 and 1975 and slightly over
$1 billion in 1976. Exports declined sharply--li percent and 15 percent in
1974 and 1975 respectively and appear to have stagnated in 1976. In addition,
earnings from tourism declined at a rate of about 30 percent per annum during
1974-75 and workers' remittances in 1975 were about 28 percent below the 1973
level. Of course, the unstable situation in Portugal was also an important
factor in these declines, as production fell in some export industries
deliveries became uncertain, and migrant workers remittances and potential
tourists were affected adversely. Nevertheless, with almost two-thirds of
Portuguese exports going to the European Economic Community (EC) and the
European Free Trade Association (EFTA), recession in those countries plus the
loss of colonial markets were major setbacks to Portuguese exports and devas-
tating blows to the economy. During 1974-76 Portugal lost almost all its
liquid foreign exchange reserves. About $1.5 billion was used during the
period with gross reserves reaching about $160 million at the end of 1976,



- 3 -
equivalent to two weeks of imports. However, there still remains a gold stock
of about 28 million ounces valued at $4.2 billion at current market prices
($150 per ounce in mid-April 1977). The gold stock serves as a safety net
which Portugal is using as collateral for borrowing purposes.
7.        The social unrest and political uncertainties in Portugal resulted
in a fall in the rate of growth of GDP in 1974 and a decline in real GDP of
3 percent in 1975. However, an improvement of about 4 percent is estimated
for 1976. Total real consumption increased sharply by 9 percent in 1974,
followed by another 5 percent increase in 1975 when GDP declined and resulted
in total consumption exceeding GDP. This reduced domestic savings to a nega-
tive level in 1975 with national savings at only 6 percent of GDP in 1975.
Investment by the private sector stopped almost completely in the face of the
nationalizations, the aggressive role played by trade unions, and large
increases in real wages; gross fixed investment declined by 3 percent in 1974
and decreased sharply by 39 percent in 1975. Inevitably the revolution gave
rise to the expectation of a substantial upward jump in living standards for
most of the working population. Successive governments attempted to protect
the increase in nominal wages by subsidizing the prices of essential commodi-
ties and instituting general price controls. These subsidies, combined with
higher salaries for civil servants, expenditure on returnees and an attempt by
the government to take up some of the slack caused by the shortfall in private
investment, resulted in the budget deficit rising from $400 million in 1974 to
about $1.6 billion in 1976 or 10 percent of GDP. This took place in spite of
a reduction in total military expenditures of about 20 percent during 1974-1976.
The rate of inflation was 25 percent in 1974, 15 percent in 1975 (a reduction
attributable to prices being fixed at levels which could not be sustained),
and an estimated 22 percent for 1976.
8.        One of the most disturbing consequences of the events of 1974 and
1975 is the high level of unemployment--rising from about 11 percent in 1975
to about 14 percent of the labor force in 1976 (half a million unemployed)--
and the substantial increase in underemployment. The unemployment is a result
of a number of external factors which have added to the supply of labor (the
influx of about 500,000 returnees from the former colonies, the drastic
decline in the traditional emigration, and the demobilization of armed forces)
and internal factors which have prevented any growth in the demand for labor
(the unfavorable labor relations climate, sharply rising unit costs of labor,
uncertain export markets, falling profit margins and financial problems of
many firms). Continued unemployment at this high level poses serious threats
for Portugal's political stability, quite aside from the personal hardship it
involves for much of the population.
The Government's Response
9.        The revolution brought obvious gains in reforming the structure
of the Portuguese economy. Yet in combination with the world recession it
also resulted in a perilous balance of payments position, large budgetary
deficits, severe inflation, and high levels of unemployment. The challenge
was to preserve the important elements of the new economic order, while
gradually restoring the economy to a path combining growth with increased



- 4 -
stability. The sixth provisional Government, which came to power in September
1975 took a series of austerity measures. In 1976 the new Constitution was
implemented through the elections of a legislature (April), and the President
of the Republic (July), and the formation of the First Constitutional Govern-
ment (late-July 1976). The Government immediately committed itself to further
austerity measures, and urgently prepared a program which set out the broad
objectives and indicates the general means of achieving them. Thereafter the
Government formulated its development program for 1977 and is now preparing
its Plan for 1977-80.
10.       The most important steps taken during the past year relate to the
objective of containing domestic consumption. Action was directed both at
prices and incomes. With respect to prices the measures fall into three
categories: first, raising the controlled maximum prices; second, increasing
indirect taxation; and third, setting higher prices for public utilities.
In early 1976 and again in January 1977 the controlled (maximum) prices of
gasoline and fuel, cement, beef, milk, and public utility rates were raised.
At the end of 1975 sales taxes ranging from 10 percent to 40 percent were
imposed on most consumer goods and only basic food items, medicines, and
investment goods were exempted. These actions to raise prices were supple-
mented by measures to control rising incomes. The first element of this
income control policy was direct tax increases and the introduction of a
surtax. Secondly, in 1977, annual payroll increases will be limited to a
maximum of 15 percent and supplementary income and fringe benefits will be
lowered. A national council to develop a prices and incomes policy is being
established. The challenge facing the new council will be to devise an
approach by which the increase in real private consumption can be kept well
below the increase in GNP in the coming years. Although the share of con-
sumption in GDP is still high, it is estimated to have been reduced to 99
percent in 1976 compared to 101.1 percent in 1975. If voluntary savings are
not sufficient, the Government proposes to prepare schemes for compulsory
savings. Contributions by employers and workers to the social security system
have also been raised. Together with the relatively cautious monetary policy
which is being followed, these measures form a useful beginning towards the
objective of lowering the inflation rate. The target of the 1977 Plan is to
reduce the rate of inflation to 15 percent but recent increases in utility
rates, commodity prices, and the devaluation of the escudo will make this very
difficult to achieve.
11.       The measures to contain domestic consumption were, of course, an
important part of the overall strategy for improving the balance of payments.
The Government has also taken a number of direct measures. Import tariffs were
increased substantially in May 1975, both as a revenue measure and to reduce
import demand. A surcharge of 20 to 30 percent was imposed covering mainly
intermediate goods and consumer goods. In October 1976, the import surcharge
was further increased to 30 percent on intermediate goods and a surcharge of
60 percent was imposed on non-essential commodities. With the higher level
and broader coverage of import surcharges, the Government also introduced an
advance deposit requirement (50 percent of the value of imports to be deposited
for six months without interest) on some of the goods subject to import sur-
charges and imposed quantitative restrictions on certain consumer goods. The



Government has also announced that it would ban imports of certain non-
essential goods, if necessary, to improve the foreign exchange position. The
higher level of import duties was, however, only one of the measures by which
the price of imports was raised. Many imports have been subject to domestic
sales taxes which were increased recently and, perhaps most importantly, the
Government permitted the exchange rate to depreciate by 15 percent during 1976
(see para. 15 below for subsequent devaluation).
12.       This depreciation of the exchange rate was an important step in re-
storing at least some of the price competitiveness of Portuguese exports. A
series of other measures have been taken in the past year to encourage exports.
These include special credit facilities for exports at concessionary interest
rates, a modification in the export insurance scheme to make it more effective,
tax drawback in favor of exporters, and the creation in April 1976, of a
council to coordinate the financing and other needs of exporters. The return
of stable production conditions should assist in the growth of Portuguese ex-
ports. The Government has also negotiated trade concessions for Portuguese
exports with the EC and EFTA. In June 1976 a protocol was signed with the EC
which (a) increased the ceiling on selected Portuguese exports (to the EC)
such as textiles, (b) abolished customs duties on many industrial imports into
the EC from Portugal with effect from July 1976, (c) reduced tariffs on some
agricultural products entering EC markets from Portugal, most importantly on
certain wines, and (d) allowed Portugal to re-establish tariffs on industrial
imports from the EC to protect its own industries. For the longer-term the
Portuguese Government formally applied on March 28, 1977 to the EC for member-
ship. The EC and its members in general look at the Portuguese application
for membership favorably and the EC has indicated to Portugal that while it
prepares for the entry into the EC, it should also take measures to correct
the imbalances in the domestic economy and to ensure that any measures taken
for entry to the EC do not result in distortions in the domestic economy.
13.       From a policy point of view, reducing the rate of unemployment has
been and will remain the most difficult of Portugal's objectives to achieve.
The Government initially adopted two approaches. The first was to stop open
unemployment from rising to higher levels through direct assistance in the
form of subsidies, loans and guarantees to small-scale industries in financial
difficulties and legislation to make dismissal of workers difficult. These
measures were seen to be damaging in the longer term because of the disincen-
tives they created for increased productivity and new investments. Since the
second approach was to raise productivity and new investment (in both the
public and private sectors), the Government has recently introduced changes
to make dismissals easier and improve labor discipline. The Government has
explicitly recognized the role to be played by the private sector (both
domestic and foreign) and, therefore, in April 1976 issued a Foreign Invest-
ment Code with certain guarantees to foreign investment. The Code is under
revision at this time to further encourage investment from abroad. A proposed
law, presently at the draft stage, would permit private enterprises to engage
in all sectors except areas such as water, power, telecommunications, public
transport, heavy industry, banking, and armaments. The Government has also



- 6 -
announced that no further nationalizations are envisaged. Although these
measures to revive private investment are encouraging, both domestic and
foreign private investment can only be expected to revive gradually over the
next few years. Therefore, the onus falls, at least in the short term, on the
Government to increase investment in the public sector. But the public sector
is not yet in a position to take up all the slack. Aside from the obvious
resource constraints facing the public sector, it does not yet have the
institutional and managerial capability to launch the kind of investment
program which would raise employment and increase productivity and exports to
the levels necessary for reviving the economy. The public sector before the
revolution performed mainly a regulatory function. Its transformation to
providing the major entrepreneurial role in the country will not take place
overnight. Strenuous efforts are being undertaken to provide the institu-
tional strengthening which is needed and to prepare suitable investment
programs, and the Government has budgeted for a substantial increase in public
investment over past levels. Increased employment in the immediate future,
however, will probably depend on special schemes particularly in the housing
and construction sector. Recognizing this, the Government has introduced
special incentives for private home construction and embarked on a number
of low-income housing projects in the public sector.
14.       All of these measures were in the right direction but were insuffi-
cient to the task of raising the level of savings, exports, and employment.
It is difficult, however, to conceive that more could have been done in the
context of the political instability and repeated change in government and key
personnel which characterized Portugal before the First Constitutional Govern-
ment in mid-1976. Moreover, the measures which are needed to put Portugal
back on the growth path are by no means simple or obvious. There is a delicate
balance to be maintained between stimulating the economy and spiraling wages
and prices; or looked at from another angle, between stabilizing the economy
and revival of investment and employment growth.
15.       The Government's awareness that more is required to revive the
economy was evident in the comprehensive economic policy package announced
on February 26, 1977. The major changes announced included a further exchange
rate devaluation of 15 percent, an increase in the discount rate from 6.5
percent to 8 percent, establishment of maximum commercial banks lending rate
at about 15 percent, further expansion of the list of items subject to a 60
percent import surcharge and an introduction of a temporary quantitative
limit on certain consumer imports. Other measures included in this pack-
age aim at: restricting food subsidies to some basic commodities in the
consumer basket; increasing the controlled maximum prices of some commodities
and postal as well as telephone subscription rates. The government has also
announced a scheme for 'provisional' compensation for nationalized properties.
These measures should help in boosting exports, reducing imports, increasing
tourist receipts and foreign investment and encourage remittances from the
Portuguese working abroad--besides containing domestic consumption. The
recently negotiated IMF standby with Portugal also aims at reducing the
domestic inflation rate and improving the balance of payments situation.



16.       Achieving the objectives of reduced inflation, an improved balance
of payments and higher employment, would only be possible in the context of
a substantial reduction in the growth rate of consumption and a substantial
increase in savings and investment. The problems of economic management and
the policies which the Government might consider in further addressing these
problems were clearly highlighted in the economic report and discussed with
the Government. From these discussions, and the Government's statements and
measures it is clear that the Government recognizes the urgency of the situa-
tion. Measures taken by the Government to contain domestic consumption, to
promote higher levels of savings and investment, and to boost exports and
stem the deterioration in the balance of payments situation are in the right
direction and satisfactory progress can be expected in the near future. We
propose to monitor the economic situation closely and to continue our discus-
sions with the Government with a view to encouraging adequate action in this
area. The process of economic reconstruction and reform will only be com-
pleted over a period of several years. Therefore, the Government has also
turned its attention to sectoral policies which will lay the basis for longer-
term development.
17.       To enumerate briefly the important sectoral issues:   in agriculture
land reforms need to be implemented quickly and supported in such a way as to
insure that they make a positive contribution to production. The Government
has placed a high priority on measures in this area including returning lands,
which were not taken over according to the land reform legislation, to their
former owners and the process is well underway. In addition the whole range
of investments and supporting services in the sector, which were notably weak
in the past, have to be strengthened. The report of a Bank agriculture sector
mission that visited Portugal in autumn 1976, is under preparation and will
address itself to most of the problems in this sector. In industry, there is
understandable urgency in getting new investment underway. The objectives of
increasing exports and reducing unemployment are critical to the evolution of
a sound industrial structure. Consideration will have to be given to redirect-
ing the investment program away from long gestation capital-intensive projects.
Decisions on investment projects need to be based on calculations of economic
profitability that involve more sophisticated methodologies than are presently
being employed. Strengthening the project preparation capability of the
public sector is also of very high priority at present. The Government has
sought and is being provided Bank help in reviewing the Sines industrial
complex and in strengthening project preparation in the public sector and
promoting investments in the private sector that rely on local resources and
labor force. A Bank industrial sector mission started work in Portugal at the
end of April 1977. In education, a sector in which Portugal has lagged badly
behind the rest of Europe, some overdue policy decisions are needed to reflect
the new socio-political objectives, to eliminate skill shortages in certain
categories of labor and to meet the manpower needs of the economy. Measures
will need to be taken to reduce regional imbalances and to lessen disparities
in the quality and range of educational opportunity available as between the
rural and urban areas and to remedy overcrowded facilities catering to the
needs of the poorer sections in urban areas. A fundamental decision will have



-8-
to be taken whether priority should be given to a quantitative expansion, or
whether the major efforts should be to raise the quality of the system. An
education project identification mission from the Bank has made a preliminary
review of these problems and discussed its findings with the Government in
April 1977. In transport and energy the important issues relate to the
evolution of rational pricing policies and whether Portugal can re-orient
itself from its dependence on imported petroleum to supply its energy needs.
The Government has the sectoral issues mentioned above under study and is
preparing programs to respond to the problems; a medium-term development plan
(through 1980) is expected to be ready in draft by mid 1977.
18.       The next five years will be a testing time for the Portuguese econ-
omy. At best income is likely to increase slowly over the period. In the
short run the Portuguese have made substantial gains in the distribution of
income and in the increased sense of participation by the majority of the
people in economic and political life. In the longer run the Portuguese econ-
omy has good prospects for achieving high rates of economic growth through
exporting manufactures based on the comparative advantage of, by European
standards, its still relatively low-cost labor force. The Government has
demonstrated its awareness of the problems and has committed itself to pre-
paring and implementing measures which will progressively restore stable
economic growth.
External Assistance
19.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded to Portugal's
need for external assistance, both for balance of payments support and long-
term project loans. With gold as collateral, Portugal obtained two standby
credits from the Bank for International Settlement of US$250 million each in
1975 and 1976, and the first of these was rolled over in June 1976. European
central banks (mainly the Deutsche Bundesbank) committed more than US$400
million in 1976. The IMF has so far extended about US$240 million as a gold
tranche, oil facilities and compensatory financing and the first credit
tranche of $49 million was approved in April 1977. The Bank approved a US$36
million equivalent loan to the power sector in June 1976, and a US$24 million
equivalent loan to the transport sector in October 1976. The EC has also
granted US$180 million in emergency concessionary aid through the European
Investment Bank (EIB) and have already announced additional aid of approxi-
mately US$50 million a year for five years, starting January 1978. The EFTA
has established a US$100 million industrial development fund. The United
States approved loans amounting to US$43 million in 1975 and US$61 million
in 1976 and expects an additional US$99 million to be approved in 1977. In
total, therefore, aid (commitments or inflows) in 1975 equaled $400 million,
and in 1976 over $1.0 billion. During 1977 the Portuguese Government has
obtained from the U.S. Government a short-term loan of US$300 million. The
U.S. Government has also initiated discussions with other potential donors
to set up a consortium to provide substantial medium-term financial assistance
to Portugal. Further, the major bilateral donors have shown interest in con-
tinuing their aid programs for at least four to five years coinciding with
the proposed medium-term Development Plan of Portugal.



-9-
Creditworthiness
20.       It is estimated that public and publicly guaranteed medium- and
long-term debt (disbursed only) was about $700 million at end 1976. The debt
service ratio for medium and long-term debt was about 4.7 percent in 1976 and
is expected to be 4.9 percent in 1977. Calculations on the basis of reason-
able assumptions concerning export growth, substantial scale of borrowing and
credit terms show that the country's debt service ratio will peak at about 13
percent in 1981. In the light of these projections, the efforts already made
by the Government and the prospects for growth, Portugal can be considered
creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
21.       There have been seven previous loans to Portugal, totalling US$117.5
million equivalent, for assisting the power and transportation sectors. Three
thermal power loans were made to Empresa Termoelectrica Portuguesa (one in
1963, 1965 and 1966) and two hydropower loans to Hidro-Electrica do Doura (in
1963 and in 1966). All these projects were successfully completed and are now
in operation. A sixth loan for power to finance a portion of the new company
Electricidade de Portugal--Empresa Publica's investment program for 1976-86,
was approved June 24, 1976. A loan to the Republic of Portugal for a highway
project, was approved October 19, 1976 and signed March 3, 1977 (signing was
delayed to permit the Assembly of the Republic to approve the borrowing).
Steps are underway for the loan to be declared effective by late May. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of April 30, 1977.
22.       Portugal remains among the poorest of all Western European nations
although it has a relatively high per capita income for a developing country.
The weaknesses in the economy, which were concealed until the revolution, are
now being addressed through the initiation of a real restructuring of the
economy in many positive ways (see paragraphs 9 to 15). As a result of the
rapid transformation that has begun to take place Portugal is faced with
serious problems of short-term economic management and lacks institutions
with adequate capacity to develop the necessary responses. To overcome these
deficiencies Portugal requires sizeable external assistance, both financial
and technical.
23.        Since 1975 the Bank has responded to these needs initially through
regular discussions on the economic management problems and policies. The
most recent discussions on economic policies took place in January 1977. The
announcement of further stringent measures in late February 1977, including
the devaluation, is a demonstration of the importance the Government attaches
to redressing the economic difficulties. The Bank will continue to closely
review the economic situation with a view to assisting in the identification
of further policy alternatives that may be needed in the future.
24.        Simultaneous with these economic discussions the Bank started work
on identifying and preparing projects to build up a lending program -- firstly,
in the power, transport, and industrial finance sectors, because of the rela-
tively short preparation time required and rapid disbursements expected, and



- 10 -
secondly in the agricultural, educational, and water supply sectors where
long-term institutional reforms are needed to cope with Portugal's new cir-
cumstances. As mentioned earlier, a loan for the power sector development, and
one for highways have been approved in the past year. The proposed industrial
finance loan is part of this first phase. Work on the second phase started
with a series of missions to Portugal over the past six months to review the
water and sewerage, agriculture and education sector policies and investments
that warrant priority. The analyses of these sectors has provided a more
detailed knowledge of the problems and priorities of each sector. These
missions also began the preparation of projects in these sectors which might
be ready for consideration in the course of the next two years. A mission to
review the industrial sector is presently in Portugal and its work should help
us identify further possibilities for Bank assistance in this sector. Bank
work in all these sectors is expected to lay the basis for strengthening
future project selection and evaluation techniques used by the Portuguese
authorities.
25.       Thus, through proposed projects in agriculture, industry, and to a
lesser extent, education and water supply, the Bank has mounted a substantial
effort towards: (i) easing the immediate foreign exchange constraint; (ii)
financing increased public sector investment while savings are brought up to
higher levels; (iii) improving the longer-term balance of payments situation
by supporting projects aimed at export expansion and import substitution;
and (iv) supporting Government efforts toward institutional and policy reform
needed to restructure the economy.
26.       Sizeable and timely long-term external assistance is essential
if Portugal is to be able to deal successfully with the many problems that
confront its economy. It is the Bank's objective to contribute to this effort
while providing advice on developing the new institutions and reforming old
ones so necessary to the achievement of overall long-term economic objectives
in Portugal.
PART III - INDUSTRIAL SECTOR IN PORTUGAL
Background
27.       Portugal built up a significant industrial base during the 1960s
and early 1970s. Between 1968 and 1973 the industrial sector was the leading
contributor to the 7 percent annual average growth in GDP. Industrial output
grew at 10 percent per annum and accounted for 36 percent of GDP on average
during the period while employing 25 percent of the labor force. This growth
was, however, concentrated in a small number of large enterprises encouraged
by the Government through its policies of tax concessions, low interest rates,
tariff protection, and closely regulated local competition. Industry, there-
fore, developed unevenly with only 3.5 percent of the 43,000 enterprises
employing more than 100 workers. Also, the Government incentives encouraged
the adoption of capital intensive methods in these larger firms.



- 11 -
28.       With the advantages of captive markets in the former colonies, cheap
labor, and inexpensive capital, the industrial sector developed rapidly and
became the mainstay of the economy. After the 1974 revolution this key sector
has been profoundly affected by the loss of the export markets in Africa, the
nationalizations of 1975, labor unrest and wage increases at home, and the
economic slowdown in the OECD countries. As a result, manufacturing capacity
utilization dropped to 65-75 percent and production declined by 5 percent in
1975. Private investment came to a halt because of these developments, ag-
gravated further by political instability. The financial situation of the
industrial sector has also deteriorated with many private firms suffering
operating losses which eroded their equity base. The growth of public owner-
ship is another major change; 9 percent of total manufacturing output is now
in public hands plus an additional 7 percent of total output where the Govern-
ment owns majority or minority participations. These public firms together
account for about 34 percent of fixed capital formation and 12 percent of
employment. The public firms, however, are responsible for only about 7
percent of exports while the private enterprises contribute 93 percent of
exports and still employ the bulk of the industrial labor force.
The Public Sector
29.       Following the nationalizations of March 1975, the Government gained
control of the most important firms (with the exception of those that were
foreign owned) in steel, oil refining, chemicals, cement, shipbuilding, beer
and tobacco subsectors. Government holdings in the various industrial units
are managed by the Ministry responsible for the sector but the precise finan-
cial and/or management patterns are still evolving in many cases. In the
power sector, for instance, the Government has placed considerable reliance
on the experienced management of the nationalized companies and is permitting
considerable scope for independent action. This is not possible in many other
firms where the loss of experienced management after the nationalizations has
considerably affected their operations.
The Private Sector
30.       Since private firms continue to dominate both aggregate industrial
output and exports, and employ most of the labor, they remain crucial to the
objectives of reducing unemployment and improving the balance of payments
situation. An increase in capacity utilization is possible provided new
markets can be opened and some old ones revived. This will not be easy,
however, because of the loss of equity in many firms and the shortage of
liquidity arising from increased costs and continued price controls. Price
controls, however, have been somewhat liberalized in the course of 1976. The
Institute for Assistance to Small and Medium Size Enterprises created since
the revolution is beginning to offer financial help but has only recently
started to address the more fundamental restructuring needs of small and
medium scale enterprises. The 1977 Plan issued at the end of 1976 indicates
that the Government will take additional steps to encourage private initiative.
These steps include provisional compensation for nationalized shares, the
ability to use Government bonds paid as compensation to owners of nationalized
enterprises to make new investments in priority sectors, the establishment



- 12 -
of investment funds, loan consolidation schemes for economically viable enter-
prises, revaluation of assets to increase equity and allow larger depreciation
allowances, and support to reorganization, marketing and other studies. In
the February economic policy package and subsequent implementation steps the
Government has adopted some of these measures plus confirming that it would
provide the provisional compensation referred to above and that recipients
could use the resulting treasury obligations to pay debts.
Industrial Finance
31.       During the pre-revolution days, the industrial sector, to a large
extent, financed its investment projects with retained earnings and commercial
credit secured through family and ownership links with the local banking
system and foreign firms. Credit which was available for medium or long-term
investments came from only two major institutions in Portugal -- the Caixa
Geral de Depositos (CGD) and the Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN).
32.       In financing industry as a whole the CGD's total term financing ex-
ceeds that of BFN though for the manufacturing industry alone, BFN is the more
important source of term financing. At the end of 1975, for example, BFN held
approximately $580 million equivalent of term loans to industry (39 percent)
and CGD held $620 million equivalent (42 percent). In manufacturing, however,
BFN held about $460 million equivalent (49 percent) versus $350 million equiv-
alent (36 percent) for the CGD. After the revolution, however, enterprises
have been obliged to rely more on institutional credit because of the changes
in the financial institutions, declining savings, the reduction in retained
earnings due to a wage-price squeeze and the general slowdown in the economy.
Pressure on the financial intermediaries during the 1974-1976 period forced
the Central Bank to finance a large proportion of the credit through discount-
ing operations and money creation. Between June 30, 1973 and June 30, 1976,
total credits by the financial community to the public and private productive
sector increased from $8.3 billion equivalent to $11.6 billion equivalent, and
the percentage of credits discounted by the Central Bank increased from 6 per-
cent to 28 percent. These expansionary measures were followed to avoid a more
severe recession and are now under careful review and tightening. For example,
the Central Bank raised its discount rate by 1.5 percentage points to 8 percent
on February 26, 1977, and interest rates have also been increased by the same
amount to a new ceiling of 14.75 percent for term loans (see para. 15 above).
These new policies point to a growing awareness that resources must now be
directed toward economically viable enterprises which can better contribute to
alleviating the unemployment and balance of payments problems faced by Portugal.
Industrial Objectives
33.       The Government has placed a high priority on revitalizing the in-
dustrial sector. Its objectives for the industrial public sector include
the improvement of management, the encouragement of the reorganization and
merger of enterprises in manufacturing to take advantage of economies of
scale, and the revision of pricing policies to ensure profitability. New
Government investment in 1977 will primarily concentrate on the productive
public sector enterprises as the best alternative for immediate economic



- 13 -
recovery. Recognizing the importance of the private sector, the Government
has also proposed added financial and fiscal incentives, improvements in labor
discipline, revision of the Foreign Investment Law, and the establishment of
investment funds for the private sector. The February 1977 economic policy
package (see para. 15) included new incentives aimed at stimulating invest-
ment and exports.
34.       The economic recovery especially in the industrial sector will
largely depend on the efficiency with which the limited available resources
are utilized. The deficiencies of past easy credit policies are now clearly
evident and, as a result, there are numerous ongoing investments which do
not address effectively the two crucial problems now facing the economy --
unemployment and the balance of payments deficit. As a step toward correcting
this legacy, improvements are planned in project preparation and appraisal
methodologies for the public sector and promotion of investments in the private
sector. These improvements would focus on the calculation of the economic
rate of return and other such tests. Preparatory work is already underway,
supported by the Bank, to train staff members in the Ministries of Planning
and Industry and in BFN and to develop the data needed for such analysis.
Furthermore, the Bank industrial sector mission now in the field (see para.
24) will largely focus on export promotion and employment creation. The
preliminary findings of this mission will be made available to the Govern-
ment in the field in late May in order to be of use in the preparation of
the medium-term (1977-80) plan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       In late 1974, after the revolution, when the Government of Portugal
initially sought a renewal of Bank support for development projects, among the
early projects identified was one which would support the industrial sector
through the Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN). In early 1975 important parts of
the industrial sector were nationalized along with the Portuguese financial
institutions. This change in the financial and industrial sectors prompted
renewed requests for Bank assistance to the industrial sector to assist with
both financing and institution building. A mission that visited Lisbon in May
1976 confirmed the earlier judgment that BFN was the most suitable institution
for supporting industrial growth. The project was appraised in September/
October 1976. Negotiations on the proposed loan were held from April 18 to 22,
1977, with a delegation consisting of representatives of BFN and the Government,
led by Dr. Joao Salgueiro, President of BFN.
36.       A report entitled "Appraisal of Banco de Fomento Nacional" (No.
1462a-PO), dated May 9, 1977, is being distributed separately. A loan and
project summary is attached as Annex III.



- 14 -
Banco de Fomento Nacional
37.       The BFN was formed in 1959 to serve as Portugal's development bank.
Since its formation it has concentrated on medium- and long-term loans to
industry, transport, and public utilities. In total, BFN accounted for about
20 percent of credit (with terms of more than one year) extended by all credit
institutions up to 1974. Industry, particularly manufacturing industry, is
the field in which over the years it has acquired a comparative advantage
through its project appraisal capability and where its contribution to medium-
and long-term financing exceeds that of all other Portuguese financial insti-
tutions (see paragraph 32). Further, as a result of its long involvement
in the sector BFN is the institution best equipped to appraise industrial
projects in Portugal. In achieving its overall objectives of promoting the
development of the country and assisting the government to implement its
economic and financial policies, BFN has placed emphasis on the encouragement
of savings and the channeling of funds toward productive investments. To
ensure that these investments enhance national development the BFN prepares
studies related to sectoral and regional development issues, conditions and
methods of project financing, and engages in some promotional activities. It
is this concern evidenced by BFN for the merits of the project rather than the
security offered, and the project's impact on the economy as a whole, which
distinguishes it from the other Portuguese financial institutions.
38.       Management and Organization.   The Board of Management of BFN is com-
posed of five individuals appointed by the Ministry of Finance for three-year
renewable terms with one of the five appointed as President. The Board is
responsible collectively for the management of BFN although each of its members
is responsible for regular supervision of separate Departments. The Govern-
ment's interest is looked after by the Secretary of State for Finance and
Treasury. The management team is a balanced combination of economic and
financial expertise with the President providing strong leadership and much
experience gained in both the Government and BFN. The average tenure of
middle management is about ten years. Total staff, including the branches,
is 618, of which 96 are professionals. The number of professionals appears
quite small since the branch offices are staffed almost entirely by non-
professionals. Staff levels were increased in 1976 and future increases in
professional staff are expected as branch offices assume more responsibility
for project preparation and as the project supervision staff is strengthened.
Staff with the requisite skills are available in Portugal and the BFN should
not have recruiting difficulties. The staff is well qualified and is highly
motivated. For the present, investment decisions are taken only in Lisbon
with the BFN branch offices serving to facilitate savings and disbursements.
For the purposes of internal financial control and audit the BFN has a Com-
mission of Control composed of three members two of which are appointed by
the Ministry of Finance.   This commission is responsible for reviewing BFN's
accounting procedures and certifying the yearly statements to BFN management.
To ensure independent certification an independent audit was requested by the
Bank during appraisal in October 1976. This was thought especially urgent in
view of the absence of any previous audit and the recent termination of BFN's



- 15 -
overseas operations. BFN appointed the firm of Price, Waterhouse and Company
in late 1976 to conduct this first audit and an audit report is expected to be
completed in mid-May. Receipt of a satisfactory audit report is a condition
of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01, Loan Agreement). For the future, BFN has
confirmed that it will continue to use a satisfactory independent accounting
firm for the purpose of conducting the annual audit and that the audited
financial statements will be submitted to the Bank not later than five months
from the end of each year (Section 4.02, Loan Agreement).
39.       A proposal for BFN's reorganization resulting from an OECD-financed
study was approved by its management in late 1976. The proposal is designed
to achieve a better grouping of homogenous operations within three general
directorates charged respectively with lending operations, finance, and
administration. During appraisal the reorganization plan was reviewed and
found appropriate. Implementation of the report recommendations is expected
to take place over the coming two years in a phased manner.
40.       Capital Structure and Resources.   The BFN is a joint stock company
with Statutes determined by a Decree Law enacted in 1958. Before the revolu-
tion, the Government was the largest shareholder with 55.5 percent of the
total. In March 1975, BFN was fully nationalized and is now owned completely
by the Government. The paid-up share capital presently totals Esc. 2.5 bil-
lion ($83 million equivalent), increased recently from Esc. 1.5 billion. Re-
sources available to BFN in the past were supplied primarily by time deposits;
in 1973 such time deposits made up almost half of BFN's total resources.
Since the revolution, however, because of the increase in the loan portfolio
combined with a stagnation in time deposits, BFN has been obliged to rely
heavily on discounts with the Central Bank. As of December 31, 1976, about
35 percent of total resources were provided by discounts, while time deposits
had slipped to 35 percent, with Government loans and equity providing the
remainder. Although there is no theoretical limit to the amount that BFN
can draw from the Central Bank, BFN plans to reduce its reliance on the
Central Bank. One way to do this would be to borrow from the CGD, which
has substantial liquid funds to invest. Up to the present time, BFN has made
little effort to raise foreign exchange outside of Portugal and the terri-
tories, due to the balance of payments surplus existing before 1974. With the
sharp deterioration in the balance of payments over the last two years, BFN is
now under some pressure to borrow abroad. As a result, it raised three lines
of credit (totaling some $30 million) from commercial sources in France and
the United Kingdom, tied to procurement in the lender's country, and one
syndicated Eurodollar loan of $50 million secured in September 1976 with a
Government guarantee. BFN also received a loan of 15 million units of account
from the European Investment Bank (EIB) in April 1976. As of December 31,
1976, the resource position of the BFN showed that 3.6 percent of the total
was available for disbursements, and that the resources were somewhat over-
committed. BFN expected to cover its position and meet new commitments by
repayments, a capital increase being negotiated with the Government, new
deposits, and new foreign currency loans.



- 16 -
41.       Operations and Operating Procedures.   BFN experienced substantial
growth in lending during the pre-revolution years of 1971-1973, when the
amount of lending grew by 35 percent per annum, including operations in the
overseas territories. This growth was concentrated in the private industrial
sector, and the direct investment credits varied from $3,300 equivalent to $20
million equivalent, with the larger loans going to shipyards, equipment manu-
facturing, petrochemicals, and electricity projects. After the April, 1974
revolution, lending operations grew much more slowly in terms of amounts (3
percent in 1974; 7 percent in 1975), whereas the number of applications for
credit went up by 71 percent with the number of operations increasing by 26
percent in 1974. This increase in numbers of applications and operations
resulted from the desire on the part of the owners of small- and medium-sized
firms to finance their investments with longer term funds, such as those
supplied by CGD and BFN. This is quite different from the normal practice
before the revolution when these same firms placed considerable reliance on
revolving short-term commercial borrowings. The effect of this shift on BFN's
operations has been to increase the relative importance of PMEs 1/ among BFN's
clientele. A rough evaluation shows PME's as accounting for about 90 percent
of the loans in terms of numbers and 30 to 40 percent in terms of amount.
A further change in the BFN clientele has been the public-private sector mix.
Prior to the nationalization of 1975, the private sector received the large
majority of BFN loans. Since then, the public sector has absorbed a much
larger share of BFN lending, and in the first six months of 1976, only 51
percent of the amounts approved went to the private sector, while 24 percent
went to public enterprises, and the remaining 25 percent to enterprises with
a controlling government participation.
42.       BFN makes three types of loans:   direct credits for capital invest-
ment; credits to finance production and sales within Portugal; and, credits
to producers of Portuguese goods sold outside of Portugal. The latter two
are referred to as indirect credits. For all direct credits, the Development
Services Department of BFN conducts a full appraisal. Although this appraisal
is more thorough than that prepared by other credit institutions in Portugal it
could be substantially improved. As a step toward improvement, a more clearly
defined analytical framework should be provided to the staff, and second, a
more thorough analysis of the assembled data must be encouraged. Substantial
improvements could then result through the institution of the internal finan-
cial rate of return (IFRR) and the internal economic rate of return (IERR)
calculations. Through the proposed loan the Bank intends to assist the BFN in
strengthening its appraisal standards. To this end, BFN will calculate the
IFRR and the IERR on all subprojects above the free limit and the subprojects
below the free limit submitted to the Bank for review (see paragraph 54) and
also prepare for all subprojects submitted for financing by the Bank a thorough
analysis of the project's impact on employment and the balance of payments.
1/   The term PME (pequenas e medias empreses -- small and medium enterprises)
refers to small and medium-size enterprises, which, in Portugal, are
considered to be firms employing from 5 to 400 employees with sales of
less than Esc. 100 million.



- 17 -
BFN will begin in the course of the first year after loan signing the calcula-
tion of the IFRR and the IERR on all of its larger direct credit projects
(i.e., those involving loans or other financial assistance exceeding US$1.0
million equivalent) for which the information needed is available. Further-
more, BFN will seek to systematically obtain from all applicants the informa-
tion needed to calculate the IFRR and the IERR so that within three years of
loan signing it is able to make these calculations on most if not all such
projects. At the same time the Bank will continue to work with the Min-
istries of Planning and Industry, at their request, to develop the project
evaluation methodology appropriate for public investment projects. The
introduction of IERR calculations and improved methodology in general is
expected to assist in insuring that the two critical problems facing Portugal--
unemployment and the balance of payments--will be addressed through the BFN
project selection procedures in the first instance and through the Government
Ministries over time. The remaining lending operations by BFN, for indirect
investment credits, are handled by a Special Credit Operations Department.
The appraisal of these investments, however, is limited to a check of the
adequacy of the security offered, plus the creditworthiness of the borrower,
and purchaser if a Portuguese firm. There is no appraisal of the investment
project as such. Therefore, the Bank funds will be limited to direct invest-
ment credits.
43.       Project supervision procedures are the responsibility of a monitor-
ing unit composed of twelve professionals. This is one of BFN's weakest
activities, as the emphasis has been restricted essentially to checking on
the securities offered on the loan and on compliance with loan covenants.
As a result, little attention has been paid to the technical, economic and
organizational matters affecting the borrowers.     Consequently, BFN often
learns too late of financial or other difficulties, and then, only after the
borrower has gone into arrears. BFN's management recognizes this deficiency,
and, under the proposed reorganization (see para. 39), supervision work could
be taken over by a new division within the directorate charged with lending
operations. Regardless of its location, however, BFN has confirmed that the
scope of work will be broadened and the division will have adequate staff in
terms of numbers, technical training, and experience.
44.       In addition to the regular lending operations, the BFN also engages
to some extent in promoting industries. In the past, they have carried out
useful studies of industries such as marble, shoe, textile and clothing,
construction, heavy equipment and food processing, and promoted industries
such as air-conditioning equipment, construction materials and canned fruit.
Nevertheless, their promotion efforts have been modest when compared to other
DFCs with which the Bank is associated. An expansion of this activity in the
future is desirable, particularly for small and medium industrial projects in
the Portuguese context, if the industrial sector is to attract investments
including those from potential foreign sources. For this purpose, BFN has
requested Bank assistance in arranging contacts with other DFC's with strong
promotion departments. Initial contacts have already been arranged by the
Bank, and the need for further assistance will be reviewed during the course
of project supervision.



- 18 -
45.       During the period of this project, the BFN anticipates that, through
its relationship with the Bank, the BFN staff will be provided with the back-
ing it needs to make the necessary improvements in operating procedures.
Several steps have already been taken by the Bank to enable BFN to upgrade
its appraisal work, including: (i) BFN staff participation in EDI courses;
(ii) assistance toward the organization of seminars in Lisbon on project
appraisal techniques (such seminars are expected to start in the next few
months); and (iii) Bank assistance in the undertaking of studies on shadow
prices and wages and conversion factors for non-traded goods and services.
This assistance has been well received by BFN and will continue.
46.       Financial Results.   BFN's income has shown a 27 percent increase
annually for 1971 through 1974; a 73 percent increase in 1975; and a 57 per-
cent increase in 1976. This growth reflects the increasing size of the loan
portfolio and the higher interest rates BFN charged. On the other hand,
expenses grew at a more rapid rate due to higher costs of borrowing and pro-
visions for doubtful debts and left profits sharply off at the end of 1975
(expenses for 1976 depend on the allocation for doubtful debts which has yet
to be approved by the Ministry of Finance). General administrative expenses,
although increasing, remain as a percentage of average total assets among the
lowest of DFCs with which the Bank is associated. Total assets grew steadily
over the last five years and stood at Esc. 37.4 billion ($1.2 billion equiva-
lent) at December 31, 1976 for Portugal only. BFN also has overseas assets
in the former colonies and their net value is approximately $56 million
equivalent. Although agreements for compensation of losses of overseas assets
have been reached with several of the former colonies, negotiations are cur-
rently underway with Mozambique and yet to be scheduled with Angola. In the
context of the overall negotiations the Government confirmed that it will
seek compensation from those governments for the takeover of its assets and
liabilities, as well as for loans to projects in former colonies included in
BFN's portfolio.
47.       The difficulties faced by Portugal's economy since the revolution
are reflected in the steady increase of BFN's arrears. Of BFN's portfolio of
1560 loans, with a value of about $900 million equivalent as of June 30, 1976,
590 were affected by arrears, most of which were over three months past due.
Of the $70 million equivalent in arrears (8 percent of the portfolio) 44 per-
cent (98 loans) were in the public sector, 22 percent (20 loans) in overseas
entities, and 34 percent (472 loans) in the private sector. In recognition of
the arrears problem BFN has taken steps since 1974 to increase its provisions
for doubtful debts. These provisions totaled $31 million equivalent as of
June 30, 1976 with other provisions totaling about $36 million equivalent.
The Government has confirmed that without prejudice to the interest of other
creditors, it will review with BFN by March 31, 1978, the financial ability
of defaulting public sector enterprises to meet their obligations to BFN and
will take adequate measures to compensate BFN for those loans that cannot be
repaid. BFN has contacted most of the private companies in arrears; in those
cases where the company was not in a position to repay its arrears immediately,
a revised payment schedule was proposed providing for a new grace period to be
followed by the resumption of principal repayments. In addition, where appro-
priate, interest rates on these overdue loans were adjusted upwards to reflect



- 19 -
the longer terms provided for repayment. The results of this action were
reviewed by BFN management in early 1977 and preliminary indications are
encouraging and suggest that BFN's efforts are beginning to bear fruit. BFN
intends to establish by December 31, 1977 quantitative targets and a timetable
for the reduction of private sector arrears and will closely monitor progress
on the achievement of these targets.
Future Operations and Resource Requirements
48.       BFN has, in consultation with the Bank, formally adopted a Strategy
Statement for the period 1977-1978. This statement pledges that BFN will
strive toward contributing to the solution of the unemployment and balance of
payments problems through the financing of a significant portion of the gross
fixed capital formation (GFCF) and the production of goods for export. As
a concomitant of this pledge BFN will analyze the employment and balance of
payments impact of all subprojects submitted to the Bank (see para. 42). In
view of BFN's objectives, and those of the Government's 1977 Plan, assumptions
were made regarding the estimated contribution of BFN to GFCF in Portugal for
the purpose of projecting the future operations of the BFN. The projections
suggest that this contribution to GFCF should be at least 7.5 percent per
annum over the coming years assuming an annual increase in GFCF of about 15
percent.  During 1976 BFN actually exceeded this 7.5 percent per annum figure
and it appears likely that the 7.5 percent per annum projected for the future
may also be exceeded.   On this basis, commitments are forecast to grow to $504
million equivalent in 1981 with direct credit commitments reaching about $262
million equivalent by then.
49.       The resources required to meet the planned local currency commit-
ments are expected to come from time deposits, certificates of deposit, re-
tained earnings, and share capital increases. With a drop in utilization of
the discounting facility at the Central Bank, BFN anticipates that certificates
of deposit could possibly be placed with financial institutions with excess
liquidity for terms of two to five years. Foreign currency requirements
during the two year period the Bank loan is expected to be committed (July
1977 to July 1979) are forecast at about $225 million equivalent for total
operations. This total includes $95 million equivalent for direct (see para-
graph 42) industrial credit. The proposed Bank loan will provide 53 percent
of this direct credit requirement. Since the balance of the existing foreign
currency loans is expected to be fully committed by the end of 1977, BFN is
studying various options to diversify its sources of foreign exchange. The
BFN expects to use the Bank appraisal report and country economic report to
assist in arranging such loans.
50.       During the course of raising the funds necessary to meet these objec-
tives BFN is also determined to reduce its debt/equity ratio. The ratio at
June 30, 1976, was 8.2 to 1. BFN management had, however, reduced this ratio
to 6.9 to 1 by the end of 1976 and has agreed to achieve and thereafter main-
tain a 6 to I ratio in the future (Section 4.06, Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk
51.       Although historically low, interest rates in Portugal have increased
substantially over the last three years. During appraisal the maximum interest
rate was 13.25 percent. However, the rate as of February 26, 1977 was in-
creased to a maximum of 14.75 percent for loans of seven years or more and a
rate of 14.25 percent for loans of five to seven years. In addition, the Gov-
ernment recently announced a system of preferential lending rates for exports
and priority sectors which may apply to sub-projects financed under the pro-
posed loan by reducing somewhat the interest rate impact during the first four
years on certain qualifying subloans. Although inflation has been high over
the last three years (see para. 7) producing negative real interest rates in
many instances, the recent rate increase applied to a typical six year loan
suggest that the real interest rates applied to future investments financed by
BFN will be positive or only slightly negative. Although interest rates are
already quite high as a result of the February, 1977 increase, according to
BFN policy any future adjustments in rates by the Central Bank would be
immediately passed on to existing borrowers. As a result most of BFN's loan
portfolio earns the maximum interest that can be charged. There are, however,
several loans at lower rates on which the borrower carries the full foreign
exchange risk. Therefore, interest income has been conservatively projected
at an 11.5 percent rate throughout 1977-81. With the average cost of borrow-
ing, including deposits, projected at 9.5 percent BFN is allowed a satisfactory
spread of 2 percent.
52.       The foreign exchange risk was routinely borne by the Central Bank
until about September 1976. In accordance with this policy the Government
accepted the risk on the present EIB loan to BFN (see paragraph 40). In late
1976, however, a policy was put into force to encourage the ultimate borrower
to accept the risk. The BFN implemented such a policy by charging the borrower
a few points less than the maximum rate permissible to compensate the borrower
for accepting the risk and to encourage borrowing. Since February 26, 1977 a
new procedure has been announced by the Government whereby the ultimate borrower
carries the foreign exchange risk but may seek coverage for the risk exceeding
3 percentage points from a government established Foreign Exchange Risk Fund.
The Fund (to be financed through a guarantee fee, an interest rate surcharge
on lesser priority loans, a levy on foreign transactions, and government
resources if needed) provides coverage for investments of "great national
interest" and is offered at the option of the Fund (renewable yearly).
Operational policies and procedures of the Fund are to be set by the Central
Bank and are now being developed. Since the escudo is now at a more appro-
priate parity, and interest rates have been increased, the operation of the
Fund should not lead to the misallocation of capital to projects which are
unduly capital intensive. The Government accepts that the principle of
passing the foreign exchange risk to the ultimate borrower is appropriate in
the Portuguese situation. In addition, the Government confirmed that the Fund
will operate on the basis of self sufficiency to the greatest extent possible
and that the advisability of continuing this Fund will be reviewed as part of
the continuing dialogue between the Government and the Bank on the economy of
Portugal, including the discussions of the findings and recommendations of the
Bank's industrial sector mission.



- 21 -
Terms of the Proposed Loan
53.       To insure that repayments to the Bank by BFN are matched by repay-
ments to BFN the usual adjustable composite amortization schedule is proposed.
The maximum term of individual subloans will be twelve years. This will ensure
that the Bank loan will be repaid within 15 years though most of the loan will
be repaid much sooner given the usual shorter (5 to 7 years) terms of subloans.
54.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be used to cover 100 percent
of the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment and services, the foreign
exchange component (50 percent) of imported goods procured in Portugal, and
the foreign exchange component (35 percent) of the invoiced price for goods
produced in Portugal. Individual subloans will be limited to a maximum of
$3.0 million and the free limit will be set at $600,000 (Section 2.02 (b),
Loan Agreement). BFN has confirmed that it will submit full documentation for
some 15 to 20 projects whether above or below the free limit, to the Bank for
review with the majority being submitted during the first year of the loan.
This early review of sub-projects reflects BFN's desire to benefit from the
Bank's experience in appraisal work. It is further understood that the BFN
will submit a representative mix of priority projects in terms of size of
enterprise and subsector to the Bank for financing. Upon completion of the
project the BFN will prepare a project completion report (Section 3.03(ii),
Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Procurement procedures followed by BFN require investment clients
to collect bids from qualified suppliers, including foreign suppliers where
appropriate. These bids are carefully reviewed by BFN's engineers before
a decision on procurement is made. Disbursements are made after invoices
and other documents are checked to insure that the goods or services being
paid for were those originally approved. These procedures for procurement
and disbursement are satisfactory.
Justification
56.       Portugal is at a crucial juncture in its development.    As a result
of the revolution new priorities have been established and the country is
trying to address many problems arising from past neglect of some sectors and
preferences for others. In the process of developing new programs, however,
the Government recognizes that industrial growth will remain one of the most
important elements in the effective revival of the Portuguese economy. To
this end the 1977 Plan proposes increased investment along with improvement in
management of industry as first steps toward a revitalization of the sector.
The medium-term Plan (1977-80), expected in mid-1977, and to be finalized this
autumn, will contain further specific measures to spur growth in the indus-
trial sector. These efforts are all aimed at restoring the balance of payments
equilibrium and improving employment prospects. The BFN, with strong Govern-
ment ties and good relations with the business community, is particularly well
suited to help achieve these goals. To this end, the BFN Strategy Statement
clearly commits the institution to an active role in the implementation of



- 22 -
the government's Plans in the industrial sector and to addressing the two key
problems faced by the economy -- high unemployment and the balance of payments
deficit. The proposed loan would contribute to the achievement of these
objectives not only through a resource transfer that could attract other
external lenders, but also through the financing of industrial projects which
are expected to show a high potential to earn or save foreign exchange. The
application of improved appraisal techniques, including the calculation of
the economic rate of return will be a major step forward toward assuring the
proper allocation of limited foreign exchange resources. In addition, the
assistance to the small and medium enterprises, which make up the majority of
applications received by BFN, is likely to have a larger employment impact at
a lower cost per job created (about $20,000 equivalent, over recent years)
than may be the case in the larger, more capital intensive enterprises.
57.       For the future, the continued growth of BFN is expected as demand
for the financing and other services it offers increases. While weaknesses
exist, the BFN has a sufficiently strong base and capabilities to correct its
shortcomings. Beyond the short-term objective of having an immediate impact
on the sector and of providing resources, the principal medium-term objective
of the Bank loan is to help BFN expand its operations on an economically and
financially sound basis. The resulting improvement in appraisal standards
and operational procedures, coupled with active promotion of new industries
and investment, will aid BFN in becoming an even more effective leader in the
development of Portugal's industrial sector. The Bank's technical assistance
will help toward this end.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Banco de Fomento
Nacional and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Portugal
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of the draft Resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
59.       Provisions of the Loan Agreement of special interest were noted in
paragraphs 38, 50, 53, and 54. A special condition of effectiveness is the
receipt of a satisfactory audit report for the year 1976 (Section 6.01, Loan
Agreement).
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 11, 1977






O  0
e~~~ 59  
WI ~ ~ ~ e ceo  -    et.  -ea        :         0 co 0   0   a           OC
ow'.5    .l5C  .    tC  ..   r-             C C ...    -C - C         -W 
0 0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~C 
~~~~~  a-:    -                                                 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-. CC  C  fr-C  -  4-  C  P40..  0  054  000   CU'  -  NC~~~V W.  r  ..C ' S
7  SO  .                   0              00                       N.N S~~~~~C,  1 A 
C                                                               S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s I
S-eu,  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
ins.  C                                                        S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n  )Ct
CS ueC0- 
CS   e ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ r
a- S                                                              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n  .a  % f 
CC                                                                 5~~~~~~~~~~a: a  f  727 - 
CiC                                                S~~. Z  . It W -& 
Cue  I-  S~ ~~~~~~~~~-rW  1W  -I;
b- :1 ~ 00  ~ Mmuucl  W                         0a LICN  7     000s
earn  oc  so  t~~ NCw   It7-  MCO W    O e0l . Ctea  I  000~~  CC cm I  C. %:
.805  inK  SI  9I  V      .  ..  .   .. .  t   **  ..       *    .          B'
este  0.4 ea  C.  01-.  *oCc~~~  o..  t~-Co  C.-  C                 ot--,  NW
C 0 C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



ANI
Page 2 of 4 Pages
!2flA
l.Iise orherwise noted, date for 1960 "for to soy year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 sand 1975.
D.Su to migration population growth rate taolower than the rate of natural increasee.
spain has been selected aa an objective country becauae of its topology end it aeems likely that, ehould Portugal mange to attain the level
of par capito mnoose of Spain, the atructure of the Portuguese econoy would shoe similarities with that of Spain.
(ee)rgder reeteims.
*a- Recent Governmant estimate of population for mid-1975.
PORTUGAL     1960    Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 m.d over to total labor force;         lb  1962;     /c  Registered, including physiciasn
practicing dentistry;      Id  Including eassiatant nurses;     /a  1965;     jf  I.Vide only.
1970    /a   Ratio of population  -der 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;        f    Excluding unemployed;     Ic  Regietered, including
physicians practicing dentistry;      Id   Including aesiettent nurses;     I   Total, urban and rural.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:      Ia  1970-75;     /t  Rotio of Population under 15 end 65 end over to total labor force;         /c  Excluding unemployed;
Ld   including physiciena practicing dentistry;       /e  Hospital personnel, including midwives end assistant
nurses;     If  1969-71 average;     LI   1972,    lb   1976.
GREFCE       1970    Ia   1967.
ITALY        1970    Ia  Ratio of Population under IS and 65 and over to total labor force          lb  Hospital personnel.
SPAIN        1970    Ia ftplayment office eetimate;        /b  Registered, not all practicing in the coutry.
R7, May 4~, 1977
Thifm of, SOCIA INICAIWB
Land Area (thou ko2)                                                                    Population par nursing pareon - Population divided by number of prscticing
Tot&l!   Total e-f-c area cmprising land area and inland waters,                          male and femal grad-utr nursesa, 'croined" or 'certified' nurses, and
Agric..- Moat recent eatimte of agicultura1 ares used temporarily or patina-              auxiliary persnnel with training or experience.
nen tly for Crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lIes fallow.              Population Pear hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital bade
-veilahle in public and private genera an.d specislised hospital end
CGiP Per capita fU)SS) - GNP per capita estinates at current narket pricas,               rehbilitation ceters; excldes nuring haso and astablihleseta for
calculated by sm   conversion netbad as World sack Atlas (1973-75 baata) ;              custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                             Per capit.a.spply of calorIes ft of requirements) - Computed fron energy
equivalent of ne t food supplies available in Country per capita per day,
Population sod vital statistic-                                                           availeble supplies cumpriee donetic produc tion, imports loss exporta, and
Population fold-year nillion)   us of Jualy first:  if not available, averag              changes ic stock; not eupplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities usad
of two and-ycar -sa tlart; 1rb0, 1970 and 1971 dots,                                    in food processing and lessee in, distribution; requirco.ta  -r cectimced
by FA0 base.d on physiolgicel needs for nomal activity and health conaid-
Pocul.tion deneity -par encre In, - Mid-year population per square kilemecr               acing  nvirowonatl tmperature, body weighta, age end sex distributions of
(100 bectares) of total ares.                                                           population, end allwing 102 for waste at househoald level.
Population density -per sousre ko of agric. loand - Coaputed as babve for               Per capita supply of protein farm   per day) - Protein Content of per ospita
agricultural Isod only.                                                                 net eupply of fond per day; net supply of food is defined as above; requir-
nente far all counstries esteblished by USDA tuononic Reaearch Services
Vital statistics                                                                          provide for s minime ai11-ance of 60 gras of total protain Per day, end
Crudo birth rate ear thousand. ave-ree - Annual live birtha per thousand of               20 goons of nimaul sod polac protain, of which 10 grin   should be animal1
mid-year popalation, ten-year arithsntic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,              protein; these standards are lowr then those of 75 gras of total prote.in
and fiv-yos   overge ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                           and 23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rote Per thousaned. average - Annual deaths per thousad of mid-year           in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year arithontic averages ending in 1960 end 1970 and five-            Par capita protein supply fron animal and pulse - Protein supply of fond
year -v-rgx ending in 1975 for mont recen.t estima te,                                  derived frem animals and pulses in grase per day.
Infant mortality rate f/thou)  A-Anus1 deaths of infants under one year of age          Desth rate f/thou) ace, 1-4 - AnnualI deaths per thousa.nd in age groop 1-4.
per thousand live births.                                                               years, to children in this age group, euggested as an indicator of
Lifa ecpc tancy at birth (yr.)    Average number of years of life raining at              malnutrition.
birth, ucua11y five-year av-erae ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                        Education
Grooc repCrduotion rate - Average number of live daughters e   ea    ill bear           Adjusted enralLcnt rstio - primary school - Ecrollmnt of all ages a. per-
in her norma reproductive period if she experiences proeoet age-specific                centege of prinary echool-age populstiton  inclu.des children aged 6-Il yearn
fertility rtetc; usually five-year avereges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975               but adjusted far different lengths of primary educa.tion, for Countries with
for de-loping coutrIes,                                                                 univrersa  education, enrollsseet may excee.d loot since em  pupils are below
Population irowth rate (7,) - total - Cempound annual growth rates of mid-year            or shov  the official school age.
populstion for 1950-60, 1960-70 sod 1970-75.                                          Adjusted erlntratio - secondary school - Conputed as sabve; oeCondary
Population co-th rate CT) - urban - Cmputed like growth rate of total                     educa.tion requires at least four years of approved primary inetruction,
population; differset dafinitiona of urban eres may affect oneparsbility of             providas ganara 1, voca.tiona  or teac.her training instructions for Pupils
data among coutrian.                                                                     of 12 to 17 years of age, correspondence courses are generally ea.luded.
Urham population (7. of total) - iatio of urban to total population; different          Tears of schooling provided (first end aecond levels) - Total years of
definitiono of urban areas may affect conparability of data   -amog ceun trisa.         scboolixg; at aecondary level, octi-1a intruction nay be partially or
as structure (Percent) - Children (0-li years) , woking-age (15-64 years),              I    ntiemal.enrelien  fM of secondary) - Vocational institutiane inclode
and retired (65 years and ove) as percentages of ei-srpopuslation .                     tsxheicsl1 industrial or ether Progres   which operate inadependectly ora
Axe dependency ratio - Ilatic of Population under 15 and 65 end oenr is these             deprtnens of secondary insti tutions.
of ages t) through An,                                                                 Adult literacy rate (Ti - Li teraro  dolts (able tc reed sod write) ap per-
icononic dependency ra.tio - Rutio of population under 1) and A5 and aver to              ceetege of total adult population sled 1) years and over.
the labor force in age group cf 15-64 yearsr.
family pla-nete-ac -ptor- (onelative. thou) - Cumulative number of acceptors            goosing
of hirth-c-otro   devices unde ..ua.picee of national fanily planning program          Persons per rau  (urben) - Averge number of person   Per roaa in uccupied
oboe i-cptioc.                                                                          conventinl..I dweIlinga in urban ara;dv-lingu coclade coo-permanet
family placning -user   (% of married -emn) - Parc...tages af married vemen of            structures and unoccupied psrta.
child-beariog ago (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to all married          Occupied dwelliaa without pined watsr (TI - Occupied covntoa           dwllinge
umnIn -um  06  grOu.P.                                                                in urban and rural areas without inside or outside Piped water facilities
as percentage of all uc-opied dwellings.
lxpioymnat                                                                               Access to electricity fM of all dwellings) - Cooventione1 dwellings with
Total labor force (thocuand) - EconoicaIly active persona, including armed                 electricity in living quarters as percent of total duellinga in urban and
force  sod unnployed hoc ..orludiog hoc-caivee, studento, etc.; definitiona             ruraltres
In vaious r-nri le   ore nor coaperabie.                                              Rural dwellings connected to electricity (%) - Conputed as shav   for rural
Labor force to agriculture (T) - Agricltural labor force (to farming, forestry,            dwellings only.
bootleg and fishing) as percontage of total loabr fors..
Unemployed (7. of lebor forc)    U- eployed era usually defined as Persons who           C   uonsmtion
are able and willing to take ajob, out of . job on a given day, reasined out          Radio receivers (par thou pop) - All types of receivers for r.diu broadcasts
of a job, sod aseking .cerb for a specified minimum period mat .....nding one           to general Public per thousand of population ; scldas unlicensed rece-ver
wek, may nor he coparable between countries due to different definitions                 in oountrieo and in years "h.an registrrstion of radio sets was in effect;
of unouployed and sorc    of data, e.g., employment office stetistic, sample             data for recet years may not be cmarap  ble since mast coutries abolished
survey., cumpoa-y unemployment insurance,                                                licensing.
Passnge  car  (.Perthoupool -. Passenger cars comprise motor cars seating
Inc     dierribctocn - Percentage of private inca   (both in Cash end bind)               lestanight persns;           I esldee  mbulsence, hearses and military
recived by riobeet 57,, rlnbeet 20%, poorest 20t, and poo.rest 40ot of hous-             vehicle..
holds                                                                                 Electri.ciy (kwh/yr par tap) - Aun.ual conecaption of industrial, caasercia1l
Public end private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, geesr-Ily
llistrib,,ticn of land ownership - Percentages of land ownd by wealthiest lot%             based on production data, without alowanuc for l.eases in grids but allo-.
and poorest lOT of land owers                                                           tug far imports and expants of el1ctriniry.
Newprit (ha/yr Per Cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilogra
Health and Nutrition                                                                       estimted frem doematoc Production plus net imports of noawprint.
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing
physicians qualified from a medical school et univrerity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA PORTUGAL
AREA     2                                 POPULATION                        DENSITY
92,072 km                                  9.64 million (end-1975)           102 per km
Natural growth: 0.9 p.a.
PER CAPITA INCOME   (1975): $1610          Actual growth; 1960-75: 0.45
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS: AV 1970-75                        HETH. 1974
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)               19.2               Population per physician         870
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)               10.5               Population per hospital bed      170
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births)   46.4
NUTRITION (1970)                                              EDUCATION (1973)
Per capita calorie intake as % of requirements        118     Adult literacy rate %             65
Per capita protein intake (grams per day)              85     Primary school enrollment %      100
LAND OWNERSHIP (1968)
(in % of total)                        Owners        Land holding
up to 4 ha.       78               15
4-50 ha.          21               34
over 50 ha.        1               51
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                        ANNUAL RATES OF GROWTH (%.constant 1970 prices)
(current prices and current exchange rate)
US$ Mln.      Z                    1969-73         1973       1974         1975
GNP at Market Prices                 15,601       100                    7.5           10.3        2.7         -5.5
Private and Public Consumption       14,961       96                     6.1           10.8        8.8          5.2
Gross National Saving                   641         4                   14.1            8.2      -21.7        -65.5
Gross Domestic Investment             1,502        10                   11.7           11.9        9.8        -58.0
Current Account Deficit                 877         6                    --             --         --           --
Exports of Goods and NFS              2,826        18                    8.5            8.4      -11.8        -20.7
Imports of Goods and NFS              4,607       30                     9.2           10.6        9.3        -24.6
GDP at Factor Cost                   13,514       100                    6.9           11.1        5.4         -2.7
of which:
Agriculture                         2,402        18                   -0.8            5.9        3.4          0.2
Industry                            5,786       43                    10.2           13.9        5.4        -6.4
Services                            5,326       39                     6.6            9.6        6.0         0.6
LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Labor Force                  V.A. Per Worker
1.000     %                   US $         Z
Agriculture                    838    28                  2,865         64
Industry                     1,046    35                  5,539        124
Services                    1j.149    37                  4.632        104
Total/Average            3,033   100                  4,457        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
(billion escudos)                                    Budget
1973    1975       1977        1975
% of GNP
Current Receipts                        39.0    49.6       85.8       (12.5)
Current Expenditures                    35.2     52.0     111.3       (13.1)
Current Surplus/Deficit(-)               3.8     -2.4     -25.5       (-0.6)
Capital Expenditures                     9.5     19.1      43.7       ( 4.8)
Other Items (Net)                        2.0     -5.6      12.3         ---
Overall Deficit                         -3.7   -27.1      -56.9       (-6.8)



COUNY DATA - POETUGAL (Coot d)                                                                                                          ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 4 pages
End 1976               Annual Percantme Increase
moIY. CREDIT. WAGES AND PUICES          Bil. escudos    192u               WA7 12  1975    197
Honey and Quasi-money                      453          20.6     23.4    13.6     12.6     17.7
of which: currency                       108          13.1     6.0     82.5     57.1     -1.8
eight deposits                 142          19.5     35.3    -11.0     4.1     21.4
time deposits                  203          25.2     15.9    17.7      Nil     28.5
Bank Credit                                454         24.0     30.1     21.8     19.0     26.1
of Which: private sector                 357          23.0    32.6     17.7      7.6     20.6
public sector a/                97          49.1    -23.6     --     137.0     51.6
Wages (Lisbon)                                           8.5     11.8    32.3     18.7      --
Wholesale Prices (Lisbon)                                5.9     11.1    28.2     14.5      --
Consumer Prices (Lisbon)                                10.7     12.9    25.1     15.2     21.6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS. 1976 e/
1972       1973      1974       1975        1976 p/                                             US$ Million     Percent
(-- 1US$ Million  --  )
(----  as$ iyl-lio.  ----)             ~Agriculture (including wine)                   298           16
Exports, fob                   1,225.7    1,740.2    2,192.1   1,886.8     1,836.7    Textiles and Footwear                         593            32
Imports, fob;of                1,981.7    2,672.1   4,175.5    3,518.1     3,533.3    Machinery and Equipment                       238            13
which: oil                     122.1      154.7      531.3      572.2     (639.1)   Chemical                                      107             6
Trade Deficit                   -756.0     -931.9   -1,983.4  -1,631.3    -1,696.6    Wood, Cork and furniture                      203            11
Others                                        398            22
Tourism, Receipts                260.6      320.2      513.2      373.4      350.0         Total                                  1,837           100
Other NFS, net                   -77.1     -252.9     -587.6     -534.6     -440.0
Factor Income, net               895.4    1,182.4    1,243.2     915.9       783.3    EXTERNAL DEBT, end 1976 e/
Current Balance                  322.9      317.8     -814.6     -876.6   -1,003.2    (Including Undisbursed)
MLT Capital, net                  53.0       -4.2      394.9      -80.2 el   289.0    Public Debt                               US$1,079 million
of which: direct invest-                                                            Debt Service Payaents, 1976 o/            US$112   million
ment                  62.0     -37.0      354.0      -76.0       -76.0
loans & grants       63.2      106.6      108.4       79.9      445.3    Debt Service Ratio, 1976 e/               4.7 percent
ST Capital and Errors and
Omissions                       -6.6      119.9     -236.2      299.1 e/   479.0    IBRD LENDING, March 31, 1977
Changes in Reserves             -369.3     -433.5      655.9      657.7       235.2
(- - increase)
Official Reserves, Gross
End of year                  2.326.9    2,946.9    2,239.3    1,627.4     1,329.0   Outstanding and Diabursed                     34.8
of which: gold              1,020,2    1,203.9    1,153.1    1,222.5     1,167.0   Undisbursed                                   36.0
foreign exchange  1,277.1    1,710.6    1,054.7      397.0       162.0   Outstanding including undisbursed             70.8
RATES OF EXCEANGE
1973              US$1.00 = Esc. 24.67
1974              US$1.00 - Esc. 25.41
1975              US$1.00 - Esc. 25.44
1976              US$1.00 - Esc. 30.00
1977 (February)   US$1.00 = Eac. 38.73
e/ Estimated                                                                                                                            April 26, 1977
aEMENA REGION
a/ provisional
a! Includes doime on non-monetary financial institutions



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of April 30, 1977)
Amount (less cancellation)
Loan No.  Year        Borrower    Purpose      Bank           Undisbursed
Five loans for power development               57.5              - o -
fully disbursed.
1301      1976   Electricidade    Power       36.0               36.0
de Portugal
a/
1334      1976   Republic of      Highways    24.0               24.0
Portugal
TOTAL                              117.5               60.0
of which has been repaid          22.7
TOTAL now outstanding               94.8
Amount sold                 2.2
of which has been
repaid                    2.1       .1
b//
TOTAL now held by Bank              94.7
TOTAL undisbursed                                      60.0
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1977)
N O N E
a/ Not yet effective.
b/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
1/
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION:-
Loan No. 1301         Sixth Power Project;
US$36.0 Million; Loan of September 24, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Since becoming effective in December bids have
been requested on a number of transmission and
distribution items. A tariff rationalization
study was completed and implementation of the
recommendations is anticipated shortly. Work
is proceeding on integrating the management
systems of the former companies which now make
up the Borrower - Electricidade de Portugal,
Empresa Publica.
Loan No. 1334        Highways I;
US$24.0 Million; Loan of March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1980.
Steps toward loan effectiveness are underway.
Meanwhile, action towards the selection of
consultants has begun.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL -- BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower       :    Banco de Fomento Nacional
Guarantor      :    Republic of Portugal
Amount              $50.0 million equivalent
Terms               The loan would bear interest at 8.2 percent per annum.
Repayment would be according to a schedule reflecting the
composite amortization schedules of the subloans financed.
On-lending Terms:   The proceeds of the loan will be on-lent by BFN to sub-
borrowers at the maximum allowable interest rate which is
currently between 14.25 and 14.75 percent per annum for
terms which would range from 5 to 7 years on average with
a maximum of 12 years depending on the sub-project being
financed. A declining interest rate preference is given
for investments in certain priority sectors. The sub-
borrower will carry the foreign exchange risk except that
on a yearly renewable basis and after payment of a
commission, any foreign exchange fluctuation in excess of
3 percent will be covered by a government Fund. Renewal
of the coverage is at the option of the Fund.
Project
Description   :   Lending to help finance the foreign exchange cost of
imported equipment or locally procured or produced
equipment for investments in Portugal's industrial
sector by public and private enterprises.
Final Date for
Project Sub-
missions      :   December 31, 1979
Free Limit          $600,000 for individual sub-projects.
Debt Covenant  :    Maximum debt/equity ratio of 6 to 1.
Consultants         None.
Years Ending December 31 ($ millions)
1977    1978    1979    1980     1981
Estimated Bank
Loan Disbursements:
Annual            0.9      9.9    28.0    10.4     0.8
Cumulative        0.9    10.8     38.8    49.2    50.0



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Projected Financing Plan:
(in Esc. Million)
1977         1978         1979        1980        1981
Disbursements              8,100        8,750      10,300      11,900       13,600
Financed by:
Internal cash
generation              667           802         994      1,251         1,515
Loan repayments            3,173        3,706       4,355       5,160        6,000
Time deposits (net)        1,500        1,500       1,500       1,500        1,500
Certificates of
Deposit (net)              500          500         500         500          500
Local Loans (net)         (1,030)         104        (962)        (353)       (399)
Foreign Loans (net)        2,201        2,533       3,023       3,262        3,404
Share Capital              1,500           -        1,000          -           500
Total                8,511         9,145      10,410      112820       13,520
Financial Results and
Projections:
(in Esc. Million)
Actual                  P  r  o  j  e  c  t  e  d
1976    1977          1978        1979        1980        1981
Assets:
Investments    31,012   35,326       40,370      46,315      53,055       60,655
Other Assets    3,888    3,624        3,929       4,249        4,462       4,620
Liabilities &
Equity:
Current Lia-
bilities        801    1,200        1,100       1,300        1,600       1,850
Other Liabi-
lities        3,279    2,581        2,926       3,276       3,629        3,987
Debt            27,298  29,516       34,103      38,114       43,473      48,928
Equity          3,522    5,653        6,170       7,874       8,815       10,510
Earnings:
Gross Income    3,137    3,563        4,099       4,744       5,480        6,312
Financial
Expenses      1,883    2,656        3,022       3,430       3,876        4,389
Other Expenses  1,103*     495          540         590          643         708
Gross Profit         151     412          537         724          961       1,215
Gross Profit as a
% of Equity       4.3      7.3          8.7         9.2        10.9         11.6
Debt/Equity Ratio    7.8     5.2          5.5         4.8          4.9         4.7
Appraisal Report:   Report Number 1462a-PO, dated May 9, 1977.
EMENA Project Department
*/  Based on BFN's recommendation to the Minister of Finance that 85%
of gross profits be allocated to the provision for doubtful debts.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
PORTUGAL -- BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
A.  Project first presented to Bank           : September 18, 1974
B.  First Bank Mission to review project      : January 1975
C.  Review of Sector                          : May 1976
D.  Departure of Appraisal Mission            : September 27, 1976
E.  Completion of Negotiations                : April 22, 1977
F.  Planned date of effectiveness             : July 1, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
No special actions necessary.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Conditions of effectiveness:
Receipt of a satisfactory audit for the year 1976 (paragraph 38).
2. Measures to be taken by the Borrower include:
(a) to calculate the IFRR and the IERR on all projects submitted
to the Bank for review and on all projects submitted to the
Bank to prepare an analysis of the impact on employment and
balance of payments (paragraph 42);
(b) submit a representative mix of priority projects in terms of
size of the borrowing enterprises and in terms of industrial
subsectors (paragraph 54);
3. Measures to be taken by the Government include:
(a) review with BFN by March 31, 1978, the financial ability of
defaulting public sector enterprises to meet their obligations
to BFN (paragraph 47).
(b) seek agreement with the Governments in the former colonies on
settlement of liability for BFN's assets and liabilities in
those former overseas territories, including any arrears
(paragraph 46).






/  ' 1  X           /                   ~~~~~PORTUGAL
t~~~_  G4;}         t'4          ~~REGIONS   AND    DISTRICTS
VlANAVIAAD DOCAITUIr  )         >              ' g,jXr-
) >  ,I        r   ~~~~~~VILA REAL     AGA1;
pORTO  0 9r..rrcv.j
/t AVE2IRO  ,'     %z,     t <~~~4 ,GLUARDA ' 
X 4                          v          IE      e      O 
t AVEI tOt  _  ~   ~ASTL/  BRA  (        j 
/ OOI8t~~~~~~'lRTA E\xot.t EJ
FIGUZIRffi O FOZv  COIM L--     t EGR
/            S               cAsrEL BRANCO  OVOR
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l-1 ,---_ARIE1
,,$ cgdosd3RalG9 C E N t E R J   . GoM do  <  t  P~ ~~IIIIIL IIIIIRII
/   >>H   !__>  tgNT^Rz/TAREM   4  /g/   "' ~~~~~~~~~~RffiLXRER  'A
/   (\  y    z    /   S 'fdPORTALEGRE  W  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NI 
g   o>,   ss-MomUrull          2   {       \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3



