Report No. 1462a-PO                                                              FILE  CQPY
Appraisal of                                                                                                       
Banco de Fomento Nacional Portugal
May 9, 1977
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa
Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Until 1971                   1 US dollar       =      28.75 escudos
1 escudo          =     0.035 US dollar
1972 (yearly average) 1 US dollar        =     27.25 escudos
-1- escudo        =     0.037 US dollar
1973 (yearly average) 1 US dollar        =     24.67 escudos
1 escudo         =      0.041 US dollar
1974 (yearly average) 1 US dollar        =     25.41 escudos
1 escudo          =     0.039 US dollar
1975 (yearly average) 1 US dollar        =     25.44 escudos
1 escudo          =     0.039 US dollar
1976 (yearly average) 1 US dollar        =     30.00 escudos
1 escudo          =     0.033 US dollar
1977 (February 25)    1 US dollar        =      32.92 escudos
1 escudo          =     0.030 US dollar
1977 (February 26)    1 US dollar        =     38.73 escudo
1 escudo         =      0.026 US dollar
(In the report the exchange rate used for conversions is the
1976 average)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BFN          Banco de Fomento Nacional
CGD          Caixa Geral de Depositos
DFC          development finance company
EEC          European Economic Community
EFTA         European Free Trade Association
EIB          European Investment Bank
GFCF         gross fixed capital formation
IAPMEI       Instituto de Apoio as Pequenas e Medias
Empresas Industriais (Institute for the
Support of Small and Medium Industrial
Enterprises)
IERR         internal economic rate of return
IFRR         internal financial rate of return
PISEE        Programa de Investimentos do Sector
Empresarial do Estado (Investment
Program for Public Sector Enterprises)
PMEs         pequenas e medias empresas (small and
medium enterprises)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
PORTUGAL
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY  .. ...................... * *               .. *  I  ............              i-ii
I.     INTRODUCTION  .......................................... .                                 1
II.     THE  ENVIRONMENT  .........                  .     ....       ......... .                   1
III.      BFN'S  STRUCTURE  * ................. ..... ............                                   6
A.     Legal Basis  and  Ownership  ..............  * ......                               6
B.     Boards  and  Committees  ........ ...................                               7
C.     Management  and  Staff  .....  .................. . . . . .   .                     7
D.    Branches  ...................................................                        8
E.     Objectives  and  Policies  .......................                                  8
F.     Procedures  ............................................ 0......                    9
IV.      BFN'S  OPERATIONS  ......... . . ..   ................................... .              12
A.     Characteristics  ........ . . . . .   ....................... ..... . . .         12
B.     Economic  Impact  ........ . . . .   ................................ .           13
V.     BFN'S  FINANCIAL  SITUATION  ..................                    ........               14
A.    Resource  Position  ...                 .........................                   14
B.     Quality  of  Portfolio  ....................... a                                  15
C.     Financial  Performance  and  Position  ............                               16
D.    Audit  .....................................................                       18
VI.      PROSPECTS            ......................          ....................                 18
A.    The  Environment  ............                  ...................                18
B.     Projected  Operations                      .........................              20
C.     Resource  Requirements  ............                ............ .                21
D.     Financial Prospects  ...........                      ................             22
This report was prepared by Messrs. Henry B. Thomas and Bernard Snoy
on the basis of their missions to Portugal in September/October and
December 1976.
This document hs a rtricted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the performace
of ter ofcial duties. Iu cotents n    ay not otherwise be disclosed without Wnd bank authoriation.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                         Page No.
VII.   THE LOAN - ITS OBJECTIVES, JUSTIFICATION
AND FEATURES ...................................         22
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..............          24
ANNEXES
1.  The Environment for BFN's Operations
Appendix A Incentives for Exports
Appendix B Forms of Assistance Extended by the Institute for the
Support of Small and Medium Industrial Enterprises
Appendix C Portugal's Financial Institutions
2.  Maximum Interest Rates
3.  Structure of Lending Rates
4.  Expected Real Cost of Subloans
5.  Board of Management and Commission of Control
6.  Responsibilities of Board of Management
7.  Organization Chart
8.  Summary of Operations 1971-76
9. Analysis of Approved Loans 1971-76
10.  Equity Portfolio as of December 31, 1975
11.  Distribution of Approved Loans by Size of Project
12.  Sources of Funds 1971-76
13.  A.  Resource Position as of December 31, 1976
B. Notes to Resources
14.  Geographical and Sectoral Breakdown of Portfolio
as of December 31, 1975
15.  A.  Arrears on Loan Portfolio as of June 30, 1976
B. Evolution of Arrears on Loan Portfolio
16.  Income Statements 1971-76
17.  Balance Sheets 1971-76
18.  Debt-Equity Ratio Calculation 1971-76
19.  Indicators 1971-76
20.  Major Assumptions Underlying the Projections
21.  Projected Operations
22.  Projected Income Statements 1977-81
23.  Projected Balance Sheets 1977-81
24.  Projected Cash Flow Statements 1977-81
25.  Projected Indicators 1977-81
26.  Strategy Statement
27.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



BASIC DATA
ON
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Year of establishment:   1959
Ownership (as of December 31, 1976)                   Escudos             Percent
Portuguese Government                       2.5 billion            100 %
Resource position  (as of December 31, 1976)                       Escudos
(millions)
Equity                                                   3,521.9
Time deposits                                           10,976.2
Bonds                                                      426.5
Government loans                                         2,560.7
Local currency loans                                    11,699.3
Foreign currency loans                                   2,916.3
Total resources                                   32,100.9
Outstanding loans                                       29,489.4
Security portfolio                                       1,506.4
Total portfolio                                   30,995.8
Resources available for disbursement                    1,105.1
Approvals of loans and investments
(Portugal only)                             1974      1975     1976
(million escudos)
Loans                                    10,072   10,761   18,800
Equity investments                            78        15      368
Bonds                                      _         _
Totals                              10,150   10,776   19,168
Loanis and investents disbursed                     6,028    7,111    8,318
Earnings record (percentage)
Profit before tax and provisions
to average total assets                    1.3       1.6      3.2
Profit before tax and provisions
to average equity                         11.7     17.1      34.2
Met profit to year-end share
capital                                    0.5       6.0      4.1
Dividends paid to year-end
slhare capital                              -         -        -



Financial position (as of December 31, 1976)
Total debt/equity ratio                                9.2
Long-term debt/equity ratio                            8.4
Debt/equity ratio (proposed for
IBRD agreement)                                      6.9
Reserves and provisions to
loan and equity portfolio(%)                         9.3
Interest rates and charges (as of March 1977)
Interest rates on loans: 1/
1-2 years                                        12.75%
2-5 years                                        13.75%
5-7 years                                        14.25%
over 7 years                                     14.75%
Commitment charge                                      1.0%
l/ Lower rates are used for loans for certain specified activities
considered by the Government to be of special importance.



APPRAISAL OF
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
PORTUGAL
SUMMARY
i.        Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN) was created in 1959 to act as
Portugal's development bank. It, as well as all other locally owned finan-
cial institutions, was nationalized in March 1975. It makes medium- and
long-term loans, mainly to industry, transport and public utilities. In-
dustry, particularly manufacturing industry, is the field in which it has
acquired a comparative advantage through its project appraisal capability
and where its contribution to medium- and long-term financing exceeds those
of all other Portuguese financial institutions. The proposed Bank loan of
$50 million would be the first Bank Group lending to BFN.
ii.       The economic performance of Portugal has been substantially affected
by the political developments following the revolution of April 25, 1974, the
decolonization of the former overseas territories, the recession in the econ-
omies of the OECD countries and the increases in the prices of imports. The
most serious problems facing the economy now are the unprecedented level of
unemployment and the large deficit in the balance of payments. To cope with
this situation and to initiate the long-term adjustments necessary to resume
growth in the economy, the Government has taken appropriate measures aimed at
containing private and public consumption as well as imports while restoring
a more favorable climate to encourage investments and exports.
iii.      Manufacturing industry was the leading sector in the Portuguese
economy during the 1960's and early 1970's, but its structure proved partic-
ularly vulnerable to the profound changes in the domestic and international
environment that occurred in 1974 and 1975. Through the nationalizations of
March 1975, the Government acquired direct or indirect control of the most
important firms in heavy industry and a few other sectors. Private firms
continue, however, to dominate aggregate industrial output and exports and
to employ the bulk of the industrial labor force, particularly the small and
medium sized ones. Following a substantial decline in 1974 and 1975, private
industrial investment is now slowly recovering, encouraged by improved labor
relations and a number of Government measures.
iv.       The main external sources of term financing for industrial invest-
ment are BFN and Caixa Geral de Depositos (CGD, Portugal's largest savings
bank). As of the end of 1975 BFN held approximately 39% of medium- and
long-term loans to industry (about 49% in the case of manufacturing only).
The interest rate structure, which was traditionally low before the revolu-
tion, has been raised five times since April 1974. Although inflation has
been high over the last three years, these interest rate increases combined
with the Government's determination to fight inflation make it likely that
positive real interest rates will apply to future projects financed by BFN.



- ii -
An Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund has been established by the Government, as
a temporary measure, to assume part of the exchange risk on foreign loans.
v.        BFN itself is a widely respected institution with experienced and
capable management and staff, and generally sound procedures. Although its
appraisal work is done to fairly high standards, its appraisal methodology
could be substantially strengthened. BFN's management is particularly eager
to benefit from the Bank's assistance in this area and the provision of this
assistance is one of the objectives of the proposed loan.
vi.       BFN's operations increased at a fast rate in the last years before
the revolution. Despite the fall in investment activity since then, BFN's
operations have continued to increase reflecting, among other things, a
shift by medium and small firms from short-term commercial bank financing
to BFN. The economic impact of these operations has been appreciable. How-
ever, the difficulties facing Portugal's economy are reflected in the steady
increase of arrears which at the end of June 1976 affected about one-third
of the loan portfolio. BFN is taking appropriate action under the circum-
stances to deal with this problem.
vii.      The objectives of the proposed loan would be (a) on country grounds,
to provide a transfer of resources to ease the foreign exchange constraint
faced by the country; (b) to contribute to the recovery of industrial sector
investment with particular emphasis on industrial projects with a high employ-
ment and export potential; and (c) to provide institution building assistance
for the improvement of appraisal and other procedures so as to enhance BFN's
impact on the industrial sector. The proposed loan may also serve as a
catalyst for other foreign lending to BFN.
viii.     The proposed loan of $50 million would provide only about 22% of
BFN's forecast commitments for foreign currency loans during the two-year
period July 1977 to June 1979. The proposed loan, however, would be limited
to direct credit (i.e. excluding credit to finance production and sales made
on credit to other Portuguese or foreign firms) for industrial projects.
The proposed loan would provide about 53% of the forecast commitments for
these projects during the two-year period.
ix.       Agreement having been reached on the principal issues, the project
is suitable for a Bank loan of $50 million, to be utilized as outlined above.



APPRAISAL OF
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
PORTUGAL
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN) was created in 1959 to act as
Portugal's development bank. It makes medium- and long-term loans, mainly
to industry, transport and public utilities. Industry, particularly manu-
facturing industry, is the field in which it has acquired a comparative
advantage through its project appraisal capability and where its contribution
to medium- and long-term financing exceeds those of all other Portuguese
financial institutions.
1.02      An identification mission visited Portugal in January 1975 and con-
cluded that BFN was the most suitable borrower for a DFC-type line of credit.
However, Portugal's political and economic conditions delayed the preparation
of the project until the spring of 1976. The following report is based on
appraisal missions to Portugal in September/October and December 1976 and
recommends a loan to BFN in the amount of $50 million. The proposed loan
should meet about 22% of BFN's total forecast foreign exchange resource re-
quirements over the two-year period from the middle of 1977 to the middle of
1979.
II. THE ENVIRONMENT 1/
2.01      The Economic Environment.  The latest economic report on Portugal,
entitled "Portugal: An Economy in Transition" (Report No. 1408a-PO) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 16, 1977. It gives a com-
prehensive picture of the problems confronting the Portuguese economy both at
the macro-economic and the sectoral levels and puts them in the necessary
historical perspective. In the five-year period preceding the revolution of
April 25, 1974, Portugal's real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 7%.
This growth was sustained by a relatively high rate of gross fixed capital
formation (GFCF), averaging some 21% of GDP, and was accompanied by a strong
export performance with exports increasing at a rate of 9% p.a. in real terms.
In 1973 GDP at market prices was $11.4 billion equivalent, total GFCF, $2.3
billion equivalent, and exports, $1.7 billion equivalent. 2/ This economic
performance, however, was substantially affected by the political developments
following the revolution, the decolonization of the former overseas territories,
the recession in the economies of the OECD countries and the increases in the
prices of imports. The rate of growth of GDP decreased to 4% in 1974 and
1/   This chapter is a summary of a more detailed assessment of the environ-
ment for BFN's operations given in Annex 1.
2/   Dollar equivalent figures for 1973 are computed at the 1973 average
exchange rate of US$1.00 = Esc 24.67.



became negative by 3% in 1975. GFCF declined by 3% in 1974 and 39% in 1975
while exports declined in real terms by 11% in 1974 and 15% in 1975. Prelim-
inary estimates for 1976 suggest small increases in GDP, GFCF and exports.
2.02      Beside a high rate of inflation, estimated at 22% for 1976, the
most serious problems facing the economy now are the unprecedented level of
unemployment, which affected 14% of the labor force at the end of 1976, and
the large deficit in the balance of payments, which slightly exceeded $1.0
billion equivalent on the current account for 1976. To cope with the deter-
ioration of the economic situation since the revolution and to initiate the
long-term adjustments necessary to resume growth in the economy, the Government
in early 1976 introduced austerity measures aimed at containing private and
public consumption as well as imports while a more favorable climate was
restored to encourage investment and exports. These measures were confirmed
and expanded in the program of the first constitutional Government (the
Government's Program) which was approved by the Assembly of the Republic in
August 1976. A one-year Plan for 1977, approved by the Assembly in December
1976, outlined more detailed macro-economic targets and policy measures
designed to revive the economy. At the end of February 1977 the Government
officially devalued the escudo by 15% 1/ as part of a comprehensive economic
policy package expected to improve the balance of payments situation and to
stimulate the recovery of the economy.
2.03      The Industrial Environment.  Manufacturing industry was the leading
sector in the Portuguese economy during the 1960's and early 1970's. Value-
added grew at an average rate of about 10% p.a. from 1968 to 1973 when it
reached $3.6 billion equivalent or 35% of GDP at factor cost. In the same
year, manufacturing industry employed 868,400 people or 28% of the labor force
and accounted for exports of $1.3 billion equivalent, over 70% of the total.
GFCF was about $650 million equivalent or 28% of the total. This remarkable
performance took place, however, within a seriously unbalanced industrial
structure.  Growth was concentrated in a relatively small number of large and
modern enterprises enjoying privileged access to credit and foreign technology,
while the vast majority of medium and small enterprises, accounting for the
bulk of industrial employment, were given little assistance and few incentives
to modernize and reach adequate dimensions.  All this occurred in a context of
artificially low wages, low interest rates, cheap raw materials and energy,
protective tariffs and privileged conditions for Portuguese exports in the
former overseas territories.
2.04      This unbalanced industrial structure proved particularly vulnerable
to the profound changes in the domestic and international environment that
occurred in 1974 and 1975. While the performance of many large firms was
affected by sluggish markets, disruptions in labor relations, state interven-
tion or outright nationalization, most of the small and medium enterprises
were plunged into a serious liquidity crisis by the sharp increases in nominal
1/   The new rate is US$1.00 = Esc 38.73 compared to US$1.00 = Esc 32.92 on
the eve of the February 26, 1977 devaluation.



- 3 -
wages and in the cost of raw materials and energy. As a result, manufacturing
output increased by only 2% in 1974 and fell by 5% in 1975; manufacturing ex-
ports decreased by 10% in 1974 and 13% in 1975. The drop in profits combined
with political uncertainties caused domestic and foreign private investment to
come almost to a standstill.
2.05      Through the nationalizations of March 1975 the Government acquired
direct or indirect control of the most important firms in heavy industry and
a few other sectors. Following a period of improvisation, suitable steps are
being taken to reorganize this expanded public sector, on which the Government
counts to spearhead the recovery of the whole economy. Private firms continue,
however, to dominate industrial output and to employ the bulk of the indus-
trial labor force, particularly the small and medium sized ones. Also the
major exporting industries such as food processing, textiles, clothing and
footwear, wood and cork products, and electrical and non-electrical machinery
remain in private hands. Following a difficult period for private entrepre-
neurs, investment is returning slowly to its pre-revolution level. Time is
needed to restore confidence, reverse deteriorated financial situations,
reestablish labor relations on a new basis, adjust to the new factor prices
and create new conditions of profitable operation for the domestic and export
markets.
2.06      Through numerous policy measures adopted since November 1975, the
Government has made a major effort to alleviate the fears of private entre-
preneurs and restore a favorable investment climate. The Government's Program
explicitly recognizes the positive role to be played by the private sector
in the country's economic development. A proposed law would exclude private
enterprise activity only from public utilities, heavy industry, armaments and
banking. Furthermore, the Government's Program clearly states that no further
nationalization are envisaged and guidelines have been established for the
compensation of the previous owners of nationalized enterprises. At the same
time the resumption of foreign direct investment is encouraged by the Foreign
Investment Code published in April 1976. Also a new Government agency has
helped small and medium enterprises (pequenas e medias empresas or PMEs)
survive their liquidity crisis and is now assisting their restructuring and
adjustment to the new economic environment. In the field of labor relations,
the Government in October 1976 submitted to the Assembly a package of measures
which has already had a favorable impact on labor discipline and absenteism.
2.07      The pervasive price controls introduced after the revolution were
partially liberalized in 1976 except for basic foodstuffs. Export incentives
were reorganized and new concessions were obtained for Portuguese exports
in the EEC and in EFTA. Furthermore, the 15% devaluation of the escudo in
February 1977 (combined with the 24% de facto devaluation that took place
between April 1974 and February 1977) is expected to compensate to a great
extent for the decline in the competitive position of Portuguese industries
resulting from the faster labor cost increases in Portugal than in Portugal's
major trading partners.



- 4 -
2.08      The recovery of Portugal's industrial sector will largely depend on
the efficiency with which the limited available resources are utilized. The
easy credit policies of the past, combined with investment incentives encour-
aging capital-intensive investments, often led to sub-optimal investment deci-
sions. As a result, there are a number of ongoing investments which do not
address effectively the two crucial problems now facing the economy, namely
unemployment and the balance of payments deficit. As a step towards correct-
ing this legacy, improvements are planned in project preparation and appraisal
methodologies particularly for the public sector. The improvements would
focus on the calculation of the economic rate of return and other such tests.
Preparatory work is already underway, supported by the Bank, to train staff
members in the Ministries of Planning and Industry and in BFN and to develop
the data needed for such analysis. Furthermore, at the request of the Govern-
ment, a Bank industrial sector mission is visiting Portugal this month to
review the potential for export promotion and employment creation in the
industrial sector. The mission is expected to make recommendations concerning
Portugal's industrial sector policies and incentive systems. The preliminary
findings and recommendations of this mission will be made available to the
Government in the field in late May and in the form of a report about five
months thereafter, in order to be of use in the preparation of the Medium-Term
Plan (1978-80), scheduled for consideration by the Assembly later in 1977.
Confirmation was obtained during negotiations that, in the course of the
review of that mission's findings, the Government will discuss with the Bank
the changes it proposes to introduce in its industrial policies and the time-
table it intends to follow in implementing these changes.
2.09      The Financial Environment.  Since the revolution Portugal's finan-
cial sector has undergone profound changes affecting the size and the pattern
of flows of funds. In the face of declining domestic savings considerable
pressure has been put on financial intermediaries to meet the financing needs
of the public and private sectors. Following a period of expansionary credit
policies, it is now recognized that further credit expansion must be more
selective, channeling resources towards economically viable enterprises cap-
able of alleviating the unemployment and balance of payments problems. The
institutional structure of the financial sector was also affected by the
nationalization in March 1975 of all commercial banks and insurance companies
with the exception of those owned by foreign interests, which brought most
financial institutions under Government control.
2.10      The main institutional sources of term financing for industrial in-
vestment are BFN and Caixa Geral de Depositos (CGD), Portugal's largest savings
bank. As of the end of 1975 BFN held approximately $580 million equivalent
of medium- and long-term loans to industry or 39% of total term financing
for that sector ($460 million equivalent or 49% of the total in the case of
manufacturing only). BFN is also the lending institution best equipped to
appraise industrial projects. It is therefore the most appropriate financial
institution through which to channel assistance to the industrial sector.
BFN has also a substantial role in mobilizing domestic resources, essentially
in the form of time deposits. In this area CGD enjoys a dominant position
and could make available part of its excess resources to BFN.



- 5 -
2.11      Interest Rates and Inflation.  Maximum interest rates for both time
deposits and loans are established by the Central Bank. The interest rate
structure, which was traditionally low before the revolution, has been raised
five times since April 1974 (see Annex 2), the last increase taking place in
February 1977 at the same time as the 15% devaluation of the escudo. Depend-
ing on the term, the present rates on time deposits range from 5% to 13% and
on loans from 10.25% to 14.75%, while the Central Bank discount rate is 8%.
There is also an elaborate system of preferential lending rates (see Annex 3)
for exports and priority sectors which reduces somewhat the interest rate
during the first four years on certain qualifying loans.  Although inflation
has been high over the last three years (25% in 1974, 15% in 1975 and 22% in
1976), producing negative real interest rates in many instances, projections
under alternative assumptions over the life of a typical six-year loan suggest
that the real interest rates applying to future investment projects financed
by BFN will be positive or only very slightly negative (see Annex 4). Fur-
thermore, should the Central Bank again adjust interest rates upwards, such
adjustments could be immediately passed on by BFN to existing borrowers under
the terms of ongoing loans. The Central Bank has not raised interest rates to
a higher level, in spite of past and potential inflation rate levels, because
of the fear of further discouraging investors already in a mood of high risk
aversion. Increases in time deposits in 1976 seem to support the Central
Bank's view that the current rates on time deposits are sufficient to induce
an increasing inflow of savings to the banking system. The Government, how-
ever, wants as quickly as possible to restore positive real interest rates
for time deposits and loans to enable interest rates to play fully their role
in the mobilization of savings, the allocation of credit and the selection of
appropriate technologies. In view of the Government's determination to reduce
inflation and demonstrated willingness to increase interest rates, the present
situation can be accepted for the proposed Bank loan.
2.12      Foreign Exchange Risk.  The Central Bank must authorize all foreign
borrowings, which it does with a minimum of formalities. With a few excep-
tions, all foreign exchange transactions must also be channelled through the
Central Bank. Recent regulations require investors to finance with foreign
borrowings 80% of the cost of foreign equipment purchases exceeding $100,000
equivalent (for purchases below $100,000 the proportion is 60%). Until about
September 1976 the general policy of the Central Bank had been to assume,
usually at no fee, the exchange risk on foreign borrowings. 1/ Subsequently
the Central Bank attempted to encourage the borrowers to assume the risk. In
the case of foreign lines of credit channelled through financial intermedia-
ries, the sub-borrowers were encouraged to assume the risk by being charged
interest rates a few points below the maximum rates for local currency loans.
1/   The Government, rather than the Central Bank, assumes the foreign ex-
change risk on the EIB loan to BFN and on the EFTA Industrial Develop-
ment Fund (see Annex 13). In both cases the proceeds will be on-lent
at the same rates as domestic currency loans.



2.13      In February 1977, along with the Government's announcement of the
15% devaluation of the escudo and the increase in interest rates of 1.5 per-
centage points, an Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund designed to partially cover
the foreign exchange risk on loans was established. This coverage will only
be granted for investments of "great national interest" and normally on a
yearly basis, with exchange rates determined at the beginning of each year of
coverage. Renewal of the coverage will be at the Fund's option. The Fund
will cover the ultimate borrowers of foreign exchange for exchange rate
fluctuations exceeding 3% for the duration of the coverage. The Fund will be
financed through an exchange guarantee fee, 1/ gains resulting from foreign
currency devaluations exceeding 3%, an interest rate surcharge on lesser
priority loans (for example consumer loans), a levy on foreign transactions
and Governmment resources if needed. Since the escudo is now at a more
appropriate parity, and interest rates have been increased, the operation
of the Fund should not involve, in the current circumstances, an important
subsidy element towards the cost of imported capital goods. The Fund should
rather be seen as providing encouragement to the revival of investment, since
many entrepreneurs may still be apprehensive about further devaluations of the
escudo and thus defer their investments. While for the time being the Fund is
an acceptable solution to the foreign exchange risk problem, the Government
has confirmed that the eventual assumption of the entire foreign exchange risk
by the ultimate borrowers is its objective. The Government has also confirmed
that the Fund will operate to the greatest extent possible on the basis of
self-sufficiency and that the advisability of continuing its operations will
be reviewed as part of the continuing dialogue between the Government and the
Bank on the economy of Portugal, including the discussions of the findings and
recommendations of the Bank's recent industrial sector mission.
III. BFN'S STRUCTURE
A.   Legal Basis and Ownership
3.01      BFN was created as a joint stock company with unlimited duration
by a decree law issued in November 1958 and began operations late in 1959.
BFN's Statutes stem from the decree law but will be modified shortly to
take into account a new law on the management of nationalized credit in-
stitutions and the decolonization of the former overseas territories where
BFN had been operating.
3.02      BFN has a paid-up share capital of Esc 2.5 billion ($83 million
equivalent), increased recently from Esc 1.5 billion. Before the revolu-
tion the Portuguese Government was by far BFN's largest shareholder, directly
I    The exchange guarantee fee paid to the Fund will be equal to the differ-
ence between the maximum rate for similar term escudo loans and the rate
at which the foreign funds have been obtained minus a small percentage,
expected to be about 1.25%. The ultimate borrower will pay an interest
rate equal to the rate payable on the foreign funds plus the fee referred
to above plus a spread of perhaps 2% to the intermediary; this rate will
therefore be some 0.75% higher than for similar escudo loans.



- 7 -
holding 55.5% of the total. BFN was fully nationalized in March 1975 at the
same time as most other credit institutions. A procedure has already been
initiated to compensate the private shareholders.
B.   Boards and Committees
3.03      Board of Management.  BFN's Board of Management is composed of
five members (listed in Annex 5) appointed for renewable three-year terms
by the Government. The Board is to meet in regular session at least once
a week and in special session whenever convened by the President. It has
all the necessary powers to manage BFN. Although responsibility for the
various departments within the institution is divided among the members of
the Board (see Annex 6), they remain jointly responsible for overall manage-
ment policy.
3.04      Commission of Control.  BFN's Commission of Control is composed of
three members (listed in Annex 5) appointed for a three-year term, renewable
only once. While the Commission's functions are broadly defined to include
checks of BFN's compliance with relevant laws and regulations, examination
of periodic reports submitted by the Board, and issuance of opinions rela-
tive to financial statements, it is doubtful that it will have the capability
to play more than a limited role as it lacks the relevant experience. The
Commission may, however, be assisted by an independent outside audit firm and
BFN has engaged Price, Waterhouse and Co. to audit the financial statements.
3.05      Supervision by the Minister of Finance.  To enable the Minister of
Finance to exercise broad supervision of its operations, BFN must submit to
him for approval the annual operating budget and financial statements. Pend-
ing adoption of a special law on the distribution of the net earnings of
nationalized credit institutions, the Minister approves the distribution of
BFN's earnings.
C.   Management and Staff
3.06      Dr. Salgueiro has been President of the Board of Management and the
chief executive of BFN since February 1976, following a distinguished career
in BFN and the Government. An economist by background with extensive expe-
rience in planning, financial and monetary affairs, he is a capable and arti-
culate manager. Of the four other members of the Management Board, two were
trained in finance, one in economics and one in engineering. Together with
Dr. Salgueiro's dynamic leadership they form a balanced team that is pro-
viding strong and effective leadership for BFN. Middle management personnel
have been with BFN for varying lengths of time (average tenure is about ten
years), appear qualified and highly motivated and contribute substantially
to the smooth functioning of the organization.
3.07      BFN's Head Office staff (including the Lisbon branch office) totals
some 432 people, of whom about 93 are professionals. The branch offices
employ another 186 people. The organization of BFN (see Annex 7) and its
procedures are currently under review on the basis of an OECD-financed study.



- 8 -
The basic proposal of the study is to group homogenous operations within three
basic general directorates charged respectively with lending operations, fi-
nance and administration. Support departments would remain outside of this
structure and report directly to the Board of Management.
D.   Branches
3.08      BFN has a branch office in each of the district capitals on the main-
land (17) and one each in the Azores and Madeira as well as one in Lisbon.
Their main activity is the attraction of deposits from local savers though re-
cently they have become involved in supervision (see paragraph 3.22). The
branches also disburse funds to borrowers on instructions from the Head Office
and receive applications for financial assistance. They usually do little
processing of applications though, except to assist borrowers in filling out
forms and to check local credit references. The proposed reorganization would
involve the branches more extensively in the appraisal of small projects.
E.   Objectives and Policies
3.09      Objectives.  BFN's objectives are broadly stated in its Statutes as
promoting the development of the country and assisting the Government in imple-
menting its economic and financial policies. Emphasis is put on stimulating
savings and channeling them towards productive investment. BFN is empowered
to grant medium- and long-term loans, provide guarantees, subscribe to equity,
bonds or other securities and undertake other operations appropriate to its
objectives. BFN is allowed to finance projects in a wide range of sectors,
public or private.
3.10      Policies.  Though BFN has no formal policy statement, most of the
topics usually covered by such a statement are included in its Statutes. The
Statutes state that BFN is to finance technically and economically feasible
investment projects or transactions of recognized economic importance (such as
exports). It has maintained its autonomy in reaching investment decisions.
In the case of direct investment credit, informal guidelines established in
1975 specify that usually no more than 20% of the loan can be used to finance
working capital and that upon completion of the project being financed, the
borrower's equity has to represent at least 25% of total assets and 40% of all
long-term funds. Loans with terms exceeding ten years are to be considered
only in exceptional cases. A lower limit of Esc 2 million ($52,000 equivalent
at the current exchange rate) has been established for long-term loans.
3.11      One area where the Statutes provide no guidance is in the diversifi-
cation of risk. In fact, though, despite a few large exposures which have an
exceptional character, BFN has been following prudent policies in this regard.
Its largest exposure in a single enterprise is with the Electricidade de
Portugal (EdP) (Esc 3,657 million or $122 million equivalent). This exposure
is due, however, to the formation in 1976 of a new national power company (EdP)
which was made up of several regional electricity companies that had earlier
borrowed from BFN. EdP is fully Government-owned and, on the strength of its



-9-
competent management and sound policies, obtained in May 1976 a sixth Bank
loan for power development. Most other significant exposures are with com-
panies that have been nationalized or are controlled by the State. As far
as BFN's equity portfolio is concerned, its total cost represents only 39%
of BEN's net worth. The largest equity investment, excepting in EdP which
is included in the exposure referred to above, is Esc 200 million ($7 million
equivalent) or 6% of BFN's net worth, which is not excessive.
3.12      BFN's Statutes require that three reserve funds be maintained:
the legal reserve fund, the special reserve fund and the guarantee reserve
fund. A least 10% of annual net profits are to be allocated to the special
reserve fund which is to cover the depreciation of assets not chargeable to
profit and loss (this fund has so far never been used). The guarantee reserve
fund is to cover doubtful debts; funds allocated to this reserve are to be
invested in Government securities and shown as a separate asset on the balance
sheet. In addition to these mandatory reserves BFN maintains a second provi-
sion for doubtful debts and an unspecified reserve fund.
3.13      BFN's Statutes limit the amount of bonds that it may issue to two
time its share capital. Bonds, however, have been a very minor source of
funds for BFN. Other than this special provision there is no stated limit to
the amount of debt BFN can incur. However, BFN's management has always been
concerned with the evolution of the debt/equity ratio. The increase of share
capital in 1976 as well as an earlier increase in 1972 were motivated by this
concern. BFN intends to keep the debt/equity ratio below 6 to 1 in the future,
a reasonable limit given BFN's maturity and financial strength.
F.   Procedures
3.14      Project Appraisal.  BFN makes three types of loans:  loans for
capital investment, referred to as direct credit, loans to enterprises to
finance production and sales made on credit to other Portuguese firms, and
loans to producers of Portuguese goods which are sold outside of Portugal.
The latter two types of loans, jointly referred to as indirect credit, are
usually made only to heavy equipment manufacturers and the building sector.
3.15      BFN's Development Services Department is in charge of appraising
direct credit projects. At September 30, 1976, 24 engineers, financial
analysts and economists were responsible for the preparation of these
appraisal reports. By the end of 1976 the department had hired twelve more
professionals. The collection of technical, financial and economic data is
almost always supplemented by visits to the projects. Some 15 support staff
are available to assist the department in the collection of banking refer-
ences, the processing of statistical data and the administrative control
of case files.
3.16      Although an appraisal report is prepared for all direct credit
projects, in the case of big public sector projects co-financed with other
domestic (mainly CGD) or foreign financing sources, BFN relies to a great
extent on the studies carried out by the sponsoring agencies, the technical
ministries and the Secretariat of State for Planning. In reviewing these



- 10 -
stulies, BFN maintains an independent judgment on the merits of the projects
and their suitability for BFN financing. The main focus of BFN's appraisal
work, however, is on small- and medium-sized projects, mainly in the private
manufacturing sector, where BFN is in a position to influence positively the
formulation of the projects and any necessary restructuring of the subsector.
3.17      A large amount of BFN's lending is for indirect investment credit.
Applications for these types of credit are handled by the Special Credit
Operations Department which has a professional staff of six. The appraisal
of these applications is generally limited to checking the adequacy of the
securities offered and the creditworthiness of the borrower (and the purchaser
of the goods if a Portuguese firm); there is no appraisal of the investment
project as such.
3.18      Although BFN makes a more thorough appraisal of the direct credit
projects it finances than any other credit institution in Portugal, and while
in general its appraisal work is done to fairly high standards, its appraisal
methodology could be substantially strengthened. There is a general need for
a more clearly defined analytical framework in which to conduct the appraisal,
as well as for a more thorough analysis of the data assembled. Financial
projections are now generally made only for two or three years following the
beginning of production, and therefore do not permit the computation of the
internal financial rate of return (IFRR). In the case of expansion projects,
BFN makes projections for the borrowing firm as a whole, which does not allow
the computation of the incremental impact of the project. In assessing the
merits of a project from the economic point-of-view, BFN relies only on
partial indicators (often assessed in a very crude way) such as value added,
number of jobs created and impact on the balance of payments, and has not
tried so far to compute the internal economic rate of return (IERR) of its
projects.
3.19      Through the proposed loan the Bank intends to assist BFN in strength-
ening its appraisal standards. BFN's management is particularly eager to bene-
fit from the Bank's assistance in this area. BFN has confirmed that it will
calculate the IFRR and the IERR on all subprojects above the free limit (and
subprojects below the free limit submitted to the Bank for review; see para-
graph 7.05) and prepare for all subprojects submitted for financing by the
Bank a thorough analysis of the project's impact on employment and on the
balance of payments. Furthermore, the Government has expressed its desire to
see BFN strengthen its economic evaluation of all projects, whether submitted
to the Bank or not. In furtherance of this objective, BFN has confirmed that
it will begin, in the course of the first year after loan signing, the cal-
culation of the IFRR and the IERR on all of its larger direct credit projects
(i.e. those involving loans or other financial assistance exceeding $1.0 mil-
lion equivalent) for which the information needed is available. Moreover,
BFN will seek to systematically obtain from all applicants the information
n-eded to calculate the IFRR and the IERR so that, within three years of
I n signing, it is able to make these calculations on most, if not all, such
-ojects. Several steps have already been taken to enable BFN to fulfill
chese undertakings and generally to upgrade its appraisal work. Three members
of BFN's staff have attended EDI courses and the organization in Lisbon, with
Bank assistance, of seminars on project appraisal techniques is underway. BFN



- 11 -
is currently carrying out studies on shadow prices, shadow wages and conversion
factors for non-traded goods and services which are needed for the computation
of the IERR. A Bank mission this summer will assist in carrying out these
studies.
3.20      Promotional Activities.  BFN has carried out useful studies of a
number of industries including marble, shoe, textile and clothing, construc-
tion, heavy equipment and food processing. It has conducted regional surveys
such as studies of the structure and economic growth of the district of Braga
and of the southern region. It has been involved in the promotion of a number
of industries including air conditioning equipment, canned fruit, construction
materials and truck cabins. It has carried out some pre-investment studies
and has been active in bringing together foreign and local firms in an effort
to create joint ventures.
3.21      BFN plans to expand substantially its promotional activities, partic-
ularly for medium and small industrial projects. It will collaborate in this
respect with the Government agencies concerned with public sector investment,
foreign investments, PMEs and displaced persons from the former overseas ter-
ritories. BFN has also expressed an interest in receiving assistance in this
area and the Bank has arranged, as a first step, contacts with other DFCs ex-
perienced in project promotion.
3.22      Project Supervision.  Project supervision is the responsibility of a
monitoring unit comprising twelve professionals within the Control and Inspec-
tion Services Department. This is one of BFN's weakest activities with the
emphasis so far having been on checking the securities offered for the loan
and the borrowers' compliance with loan agreement covenants. Little attention
has been paid to technical, economic and organizational matters. Visits to
borrowers have been rare after the beginning of production and financial re-
porting by the borrowers has been only loosely enforced. As a result BFN has
learned of financial or other difficulties of its borrowers only when their
repayments have gone into arrears. More recently, though, as one response to
the current serious arrears position (see paragraphs 5.06-5.08), visits to
borrowers by both headquarters and branch staff have been intensified in an
effort to find solutions to the difficulties faced by borrowers.
3.23      BFN's management is aware of these deficiencies and has confirmed
that the scope of BFN's supervision work will be broadened. In the framework
of the proposed reorganization supervision work would be taken over by a new
department set within the directorate charged with lending operations so as to
provide a link with appraisal and promotion work. A separate division within
this department would be charged with monitoring the overall performance of
borrowers including identifying at an early stage those borrowers experiencing
difficulties and diagnosing their problems and technical assistance needs.
BFN has also confirmed that appropriate additional staff will be recruited as
necessary to handle these new tasks.
3.24      Procurement.  In the case of large investment projects BFN's clients
ask for bids from qualified national or foreign suppliers, generally on the
basis of specifications prepared by engineering firms, and the bids are re-
viewed carefully before a decision on procurement is taken. In the case of



- 12 -
smaller projects, quotes from several sources are collected in a more in-
formal way. In all cases, however, BFN's engineers check the appropriateness
of the production method, the reputation of the supplier and the competitive-
ness of the prices against their own experience with similar projects. These
procedures are satisfactory.
3.25      Disbursement.  Disbursements are made only after invoices and other
documents are checked and it is verified that the goods or services being
paid for were those originally approved as part of the project. The general
practice is to visit each client at least once during the disbursement period.
In general, disbursement procedures are satisfactory.
IV. BFN'S OPERATIONS
A.   Characteristics
4.01      Annex 8 contains a summary of BFN's operations since 1971.  Term
lending is by far BFN's most important activity. The granting of guarantees
and investing in equity participations represent only a small percentage of
BFN's approvals. BFN has not invested in bonds since the revolution.
4.02      Loans.  The growth in the number and amount of lending operations
(including those in the overseas territories) was quite substantial between
1971 and 1973, with loan approvals growing an average 25% p.a. in terms of
numbers and 35% p.a. in terms of amounts. In 1974 loan approvals increased
by 26% in terms of numbers but only by 3% in terms of amounts, while disburse-
ments increased by 65%, reflecting ongoing investment projects that could not
be curtailed. The 19% decrease in the average size of loans approved in 1974
as well as the 71% increase in the number of loan applications for that year
reflect the shift of medium and small firms from financing their investments
with the revolving short-term credit traditionally obtained from commercial
banks to medium- or long-term investment credit obtained from BFN. Though
1975 loan approvals (for Portugal only) increased by only 7% in terms of
amounts, this was in a year when GFCF declined by 39% in real terms. BFN's
lending activity picked up significantly in 1976, paced by a number of large
export credits.
4.03       Annex 9 analyzes approved loans according to several criteria.
Sectorally, industrial credit has accounted for some 90% of approved loans by
amounts and 85% by number since 1971. Before the nationalizations of 1975 the
private sector received the large majority of BFN's loans. Since then the dis-
tribution between the public and private sectors has changed and, in the first
six months of 1976, only 51% of the amounts approved was for the private sector
with 24% for public enterprises and 25% for enterprises with a controlling gov-
ernment participation.
4.04      The size of approved direct credit since 1971 varies from Esc 100,000
($3,300 equivalent) up to Esc 600 million ($20 million equivalent); some in-
direct credits are larger. While over half of the amount approved each year
(except 1971) has been for loans exceeding Esc 100 million ($3.3 million equiv-
alent), 70% or more of the loans have been for amounts below Esc 10 million



- 13 -
($330,000 equivalent). The largest loans have been for shipyards, equipment
manufacturing, petrochemicals and electricity projects. A rough evaluation of
the relative importance of PMEs among BFN's clients shows them as accounting
for about 90% of the loans in terms of numbers and between 30% and 40% in terms
of amounts, with a slightly increasing trend in the more recent years. The
average size of direct industrial loans, excluding those for electric power,
has been about $400,000 equivalent.
4.05      The geographical distribution of loans reflects the geographical
distribution of economic activity in Portugal. Thus the majority of loans
are for projects in the industrialized coastal strip from Viana do Castelo
in the north to Setubal in the south, including the Lisbon area. However,
BFN has supported projects in just about all sections of Portugal, including
the adjacent islands. The majority of loans, in terms of numbers and amounts,
have been for terms of five to seven years, while 34% of the amount lent,
though only 4% of the number, have been for longer terms.
4.06      New clients accounted for 84% of the direct credit operations ap-
proved in 1975 and 64% of the amounts involved, again reflecting the shift of
many small and medium enterprises away from commercial banks and towards BFN.
Preliminary figures for 1976 suggest that this movement is continuing. On the
other hand, new projects (new enterprises or new activities undertaken by
existing enterprises), which in 1974 represented 16% of approved direct credit
loans and 32% of the amounts involved, represented only 6% of the loans in
1975 and 16% of the amounts, reflecting the uncertain investment climate. The
predominance of loans for extension or modernization investments is confirmed
by preliminary figures for 1976.
4.07      Equity Investment.  As shown in Annex 10, the main sectors in which
equity investments have been made are electricity, transportation, metal
works, chemicals and banking. Following the nationalizations of 1975 the
State has acquired a controlling interest in the majority of the firms in
which BFN has an equity participation. The fact that very few medium and
small enterprises are included in BFN's equity portfolio reflects in part
the reluctance of these traditionally family-owned enterprises to open their
equity ownership to outsiders.
B.   Economic Impact
4.08      Over the four years preceding the revolution gross fixed capital
formation (GFCF) in Portugal totalled Esc 172 billion ($5.7 billion equiv-
alent), including Esc 51 billion ($1.7 billion equivalent) for manufacturing.
Estimated on the basis of disbursements for direct credit and for credit for
production and sale within Portugal, BFN's contribution to the financing of
this investment activity was 5.8% for the economy as a whole and 19.7% for the
manufacturing sector. While overall investment activity declined in 1974 and
1975, BFN's contribution to total GFCF increased to 8.2% in 1974 and 12.7%
in 1975 (14.4% for the manufacturing sector in 1974 and 25.8% in 1975). Pre-
liminary figures for 1976 suggest that BFN's contribution to overall fixed
capital formation decreased to 11.3%. The high percentages for 1975 and 1976
should, however, be considered as exceptional.



- 14 -
4.09      Annex 11 gives a breakdown of loan approvals for direct credit in
1975 and 1976 according to total project cost. It shows that in these two
years 94% of the number of loans and 35% of the amount were lent for projects
with a total cost of less than Esc 100 million ($3.3 million equivalent).
These percentages further confirm the importance of PMEs in BFN's lending
activity.
4.10      A recent study by BFN showed that in a sample of manufacturing proj-
ects involving direct credit in 1975 of over Esc 50 million ($1.6 million
equivalent), 44% of the total investment was financed by suppliers credit and
17% by internally generated funds. The corresponding percentages for a sample
of projects involving smaller loans were 21% and 35%, suggesting a lesser
availability of suppliers credit for PMEs or the imposition by lenders of more
stringent financial ratio requirements. In both samples, commercial banks
accounted for less than 8% of the financing and BFN for about one-third.
4.11      This analysis also indicates that for large manufacturing projects
the job creating impact was very limited (cost per job above $200,000 equiv-
alent). It can be argued that these investments, whose usual objective was
to increase productivity, were necessary to ensure the firms's survival fol-
lowing changes in factor prices and international conditions and therefore
to maintain existing jobs. In the sample of small and medium manufacturing
projects the investment cost per job created was much lower, around $20,000
equivalent, reflecting the capacity of PMEs to create jobs at a substantially
lower cost. Although no precise figure is available, BFN lending to PMEs is
also important in maintaining existing jobs.
V. BFN'S FINANCIAL SITUATION
A.   Resource Position
5.01      An important shift in BFN's resource position has occurred since
the revolution. This is reflected in Annex 12 which shows, on an annual cash
flow basis, the sources of funds used to cover disbursements. Until the re-
volution BFN had relied predominantly on time deposits which made up almost
half of its resources at the end of 1973. Loans from the Government made up
another quarter with equity providing about 14%. Following the revolution,
the considerable increase in BFN's loan portfolio, combined with a stagnation
in time deposits (until 1976 when deposits rose 20% over the previous year),
obliged BFN to increase dramatically its discounts with the Central Bank.
These rose from Esc 0.4 billion ($13 million equivalent) at the end of 1973
to Esc 10.9 billion ($363 million equivalent) at the end of 1976 when they
accounted for 35% of total resources, the same as time deposits. BFN's re-
source position as of December 31, 1976, is presented in Annex 13. It shows
chat only 3.6% of the total is available for disbursements and that resources
have been somewhat over-committed. BFN expected to cover its position and
meet new commitments by repayments, a capital increase being negotiated with
the Government, new deposits and new foreign currency loans.



- 15 -
5.02      There is no theoretical limit to the amount that BFN can draw from
the Central Bank and it benefits from the relatively low cost of these funds.
In the future BFN plans to reduce its reliance on Central Bank discounts in
line with the Central Bank's policy. One way it will do this will be to
borrow much more than in the past from CGD which has substantial liquid funds
to invest.
5.03      Until the revolution, BFN made little effort to raise funds outside
of Portugal and the overseas territories. This reflected the country's bal-
ance of payments surplus and the consequent availability of foreign exchange.
With the sharp deterioration of the balance of payments over the last several
years, BFN has been under pressure to raise foreign exchange resources and has
done so with success (see Annex 13 for details). It has raised two lines of
credit from the Midland Bank and one from Credit Commercial de France and
more recently received a syndicated Eurodollar loan. On these four lines of
credit, however, sub-borrowers are to bear the foreign exchange risk (with a
reduction in the interest rate).
5.04      BFN is also the recipient of a loan from the European Investment
Bank (EIB) which was contracted within the framework of the EEC offer of
emergency aid for Portugal in the 1976-77 period. This loan, on which the
Government carries the foreign exchange risk, is expected to be fully com-
mitted by the end of 1977. In negotiating this loan, EIB used its influence
to strengthen BFN's financial and technical autonomy and to press for a favor-
able settlement of BFN's arrears and overseas assets problems (see paragraph
5.12). BFN's standing in Portugal's financial community is reflected by its
being chosen to manage an Industrial Development Fund of about $100 million
equivalent made available to Portugal by the members of EFTA (which includes
Portugal) as well as by Finland. The Fund became effective at the beginning
of February 1977.
B.   Quality of Portfolio
5.05      BFN's portfolio at the end of 1975 amounted to Esc 26.8 billion
($894 million equivalent); BFN had the financial risk on 91.2% of the total,
with the remainder made with funds at the risk of the Government. Annex 14
divides BFN's risk portfolio at December 31, 1975, into loans (95.1%), shares
(4.4%) and bonds (0.5%), and indicates that 7.6% of the total was invested
in the former overseas territories (excluding investments made by BFN's
branches there).
5.06      Loan Portfolio.  The difficulties faced by Portugal's economy since
the revolution are reflected in the steady increase of arrears. As of June
30, 1976, (see Annex 15 A) BFN's total loan portfolio of some 1,560 loans in-
cluded 590 loans affected by arrears, out of which 461 had arrears of over
three months and accounted for 25.4% of the portfolio. Total principal and
interest payments in arrears totalled Esc 2,112 million ($70 million equiv-
alent) or 8% of the portfolio, compared to Esc 671 million or 3.8% as of
December 31, 1974. Provisions for doubtful debts were Esc 926 million and
other reserves, Esc 1,091 million (a total of $67 million equivalent), as
of June 30, 1976.



- 16 -
5.07      Of the amounts in arrears 44% were in the public sector, 22% were
among overseas entities and 34% were in the private sector. At the request of
BFN, the Government has agreed in principle to arrange for each public sector
enterprise to submit a definite financial plan for repaying its outstanding
arrears (with respect not only of BFN but also of other creditors) over a
fixed period of time. Arrears on loans to overseas entities are part of the
overseas assets problem and are covered by the Government assurances to BFN
concerning these assets (see paragraph 5.13). BFN has contacted most of the
private companies in arrears, and has proposed to those of them thought not
to be in a position to repay their arrears immediately a scheme providing
for (a) resumption of principal repayment after a new grace period of six
months, (b) payment within these six months of interest in arrears and (c)
upward adjustment of the interest rate in line with the higher maximum rates
allowed by the Central Bank on loans with longer terms.
5.08      In early 1977 BFN assessed the first results of its efforts to clear
the arrears situation. These results, reflecting the situation as of September
30 and December 31, 1976, are shown in Annex 15 B. Although total arrears in-
creased from Esc 2,112 million to Esc 2,706 million during the second half of
1976, their rate of growth declined substantially in the fourth quarter and
interest in arrears was almost stabilized. A substantial decrease was also
achieved during the fourth quarter in the arrears of public and nationalized
enterprises. Although private sector arrears continued to increase substan-
tially in the second half of 1976, preliminary indications for the first months
of 1977 are more encouraging and suggest that BFN's efforts (including inten-
sified field visits to enterprises in arrears by staff from headquarters and
branches) are beginning to bear fruit. The Government has confirmed that,
without prejudice to the interest of other creditors, it will review with BFN
by March 31, 1978, the financial ability of defaulting public sector enter-
prises to meet their obligations to BFN and will take adequate measures to
compensate BFN for those loans that cannot be repaid. BFN has also confirmed
that it will by December 31, 1977, establish quantitative targets and time-
tables for the reduction of private sector arrears and that it will closely
monitor the progress on achieving these targets.
5.09      Equity and Bond Portfolio.  The companies located in Portugal in
which BFN holds equity participations are generally solid and well-managed
enterprises. Although very few are currently distributing dividends, most
of them, whether Government-controlled or private, have favorable earnings
potential. Interest on BFN's Portuguese bond portfolio is being paid on
time.
C.   Financial Performance and Position
5.10      Profitability.  BFN's income statements for 1971-76 are contained in
Annex 16. Income has shown a 27% p.a. increase during the 1971-74 period, a
73% increase in 1975 and a 57% increase in 1976, 1/ basically reflecting the
growth in interest income. This in turn reflects the growing loan portfolio
plus the increase in interest rates which BFN can charge. Expenses, however,
1/   1975 and 1976 figures refer to Portugal only; 1971-74 figures include the
overseas territories.



- 17 -
have grown at the more rapid rate of 35% p.a. during 1971-74 and 74% in 1975.
Total expenses in 1976 depend upon the Minister of Finance's decision regarding
the amounts to be allocated to the provision for doubtful debts; see footnote
2 of Annex 16. The main cause for this growth has been interest expense; not
only have the amounts borrowed increased but also interest rates have gone up.
Profits before taxes increased at a 21% p.a. rate between 1971 and 1973 but
sharply declined in 1974 and 1975 when substantial provisions for doubtful
debts were made; the same situation is likely to occur for 1976.
5.11      Administrative expenses, while increasing in absolute terms, have
not significantly increased as a percentage of average total assets and
amounted to only 0.5% during 1976 (see Annex 19). This result is among the
lowest of the DFCs associated with the Bank and reflects to some extent the
rather modest professional staff size. Net profit as a percentage of average
net worth declined over the 1971-73 period, reflecting the faster growth of
net worth (helped by the 50% increase in share capital in 1972), and amounted
to 5.1% in 1973. It dropped to 0.3% in 1974, reflecting the high provision
for doubtful debts, and recovered somewhat to 3.6% in 1975. It dropped to
3.3% in 1976 due to the capital increase and the proposed large provision for
doubtful debts. Over the 1971-73 period, the payout ratio fluctuated between
53.6% and 67.9%, reflecting a reasonably conservative reserve policy. No
dividends have been paid since BFN was nationalized.
5.12      Financial Position.  BFN's balance sheets as at December 31 for each
of the six years 1971-76 are contained in Annex 17. Total assets have in-
creased from Esc 12.8 billion ($425 million equivalent) at the end of 1971 to
Esc 37.4 billion ($1,246 million equivalent) at the end of 1976. 1/ In each
year the investment portfolio represented about 90% of total assets. This
growth was financed through increases in all major liability categories al-
though, as noted earlier, their relative importance has changed over time.
5.13      Overseas Assets and Liabilities.  BFN's net overseas assets, es-
timated at approximately Esc 1,700 million ($56 million equivalent), are
included in the "other assets" item of BFN's balance sheet. In the course
of 1976 separate agreements were reached at the Government level between
Portugal and its smaller former African territories of Guinea-Bissau, Cape
Verde and Sao Tome and Principe. Under these agreements, BFN is to receive
from the respective governments an adequate compensation for the takeover of
the net assets of its branches there. In the case of Mozambique, where the
net assets of BFN's branch are estimated at Esc 956.4 million ($31.9 million
equivalent), BFN has continued to supervise its assets and liabilities since
Mozambique's independence although no new investment operations have been
undertaken. BFN is represented in the negotiations currently under way be-
tween the governments of Portugal and Mozambique and expects to be compensated
along the lines adopted for the three smaller territories. In the case of
1/   1976 figures refer to Portugal only while figures for earlier years in-
clude the overseas territories. This difference does not affect sig-
nificantly the trends described as the structure of overseas assets and
liabilities was roughly similar to that for Portugal only.



- 18 -
Angola, BFN ceased all activities in March 1976, the operations there being
managed by a locally appointed management team. Diplomatic relations were
reestablished between Portugal and Angola in September 1976 but no negotia-
tions have yet been scheduled that would include the disposition of BFN's
assets and liabilities. BFN's net exposure in Angola is estimated at Esc
727.7 million ($24.3 million equivalent). The Government has confirmed that
in its negotiations with the Governments of the former overseas territories
it will seek agreement on the payment of adequate compensation by those
Governments for these net exposures, as well as on the settlement of arrears
on loans made to enterprises in those territories.
5.14      Debt/Equity Ratio.  After adjustments as detailed in Annex 18, BFN's
debt/equity ratio as of the end of 1976 was 6.9 to 1, having increased from
4.8 to 1 at the end of 1971. It is BFN's intention to bring this ratio below
6 to 1 through capital increases (Esc 1 billion was paid in by the end of
1976 and a further Esc 0.5 billion is being negotiated for 1977) and through
the conversion into equity of about Esc 1 billion of debt to the Portuguese
State (also being negotiated for 1977). Included in the debt to be converted
are the adjustments made in Annex 18. In line with BFN's intentions (see also
paragraph 3.13), a maximum debt/equity ratio of 6 to 1 was agreed to during
negotiations.
D.   Audit
5.15      As noted in paragraph 3.04, BFN engaged Price, Waterhouse and Co. to
carry out a full audit of the 1976 financial statements. This was the first
time BFN's financial statements were subjected to an independent audit. The
receipt of a satisfactory audit report, expected shortly, is a condition of
loan effectiveness. BFN has agreed to continue to use a satisfactory inde-
pendent accounting firm for future annual audits.
VI. PROSPECTS
A.   The Environment
6.01      Economic Environment.  A definite potential exists for the revival
of the Portuguese economy. The return of internal political stability, an
improved international economic environment, the recent devaluation of the
escudo and the accompanying economic policy measures have created more favor-
able circumstances than have existed since the revolution and the present
Government is committed to putting the country firmly on the path of economic
recovery. The Government's economic strategy aims essentially at redirecting
resources away from private and public consumption and imports and towards
livestment and exports. This strategy, which is appropriate in the present
ontext and was already outlined in the Government's Program of August 1976,
is spelled out in more detail in the 1977 Plan, the 1977 Budget and the
February 1977 policy package. The 1977 Plan somewhat optimistically projects
increases in real terms of 5% for GDP, 7% for industrial output, 11% for
exports and 33% for investment. Private and public consumption are not
forecast to increase in real terms. Prices and wages policy would seek to



- 19 -
bring the rate of inflation down to 15%. 1/ A combination of import controls
and incentives for exports, tourism and workers remittances is expected to
reduce the balance of payments deficit on current account to about $700 million.
These targets are ambitious but not unobtainable.
6.02      Investment Targets for 1977.  The projected distribution of the
total investment target for 1977 of Esc 95 billion ($3.2 billion equivalent)
is heavily weighted in favor of the public sector which the Government counts
on to spearhead the recovery of investment. Public infrastructure investment
is expected to reach Esc 31 billion (including 50% for housing) and investment
by public sector enterprises (collectively referred to as PISEE), Esc 35 bil-
lion, while the private sector is expected to contribute Esc 29 billion, i.e.
about 30% of the total. The 1977 PISEE is not yet finalized and further
selection must be made from a list of investment projects involving total
expenditures in 1977 of Esc 55 billion. Of this total, 46% would be for
heavy manufacturing industries. New jobs created would total about 25,000
in 1977, a fairly small amount compared to the about 100,000 new jobs asso-
ciated with infrastructure investments. Although all PISEE projects taken
together would imply equipment imports worth about Esc 5.5 billion ($180 mil-
lion equivalent), their long-term impact on the balance of payments would be
positive, yielding an estimated Esc 18.4 billion ($610 million equivalent)
in annual net earnings. As for the financing of PISEE, contributions are
expected from the public sector enterprises themselves, various public sector
funds, the banking system (and in particular CGD and BFN), suppliers credit,
the EFTA Industrial Development Fund and other foreign lines of credit. No
quantification of these contributions has been attempted so far.
6.03      The 1977 Plan does not include any sectoral breakdown of the invest-
ment expected by the private sector. As noted in Chapter II and Annex 1, how-
ever, the Government is determined to assign an important role to the private
sector and to restore the confidence of domestic and foreign private investors.
The measures in that direction already indicated in the Plan and included in
the February 1977 policy package (in particular compensation for nationaliza-
tions, revaluation of assets and loan consolidation schemes for economically
viable enterprises) could create, if properly carried through, the conditions
for achieving the private sector investment target.
6.04      Medium-Term Prospects.  The process of economic reconstruction and
reform in Portugal will only be completed over a period of several years. How-
ever, assuming appropriately implemented measures, the Bank's economic report
projects that Portugal could be able to achieve in the 1977-82 period a GDP
growth rate of about 5% p.a., sustained by an average increase in investment
of about 13% p.a., while the current account balance of payments deficit
would progressively decline and disappear in the 1980's. The performance
of the industrial sector is the crucial variable in the achievement of these
targets as only the industrial sector can provide the motive force for this
growth and lead to the expansion of exports. It will also have an important
1/   The target for inflation might have to be revised upwards somewhat as a
result of the February devaluation of the escudo, higher import surcharges,
the decontrolling of some prices and the increases in utility rates.



- 20 -
role in alleviating the unemployment problem. Recognizing this, the Govern-
ment has indicated that the industrial development strategies to be articu-
lated in the Medium-Term Plan (1977-80) 1/ will place more emphasis on labor-
intensive and export-oriented industries.2/ As noted in Chapter II and Annex
1, these industries are mainly in private hands.
6.05      In the perspective of Portugal's application for membership in the
EEC, the private sector is better placed than the public sector to find a
middle ground between the highly capital-intensive and technologically ad-
vanced industries of the developed European countries and the unskilled labor-
intensive industries of the countries of the Lome Convention and of North
Africa, which can export manufactured goods duty-free to the EEC. Despite the
recent increases, labor costs in Portugal are still substantially below costs
in the developed European countries though exceeding those in African coun-
tries. The predominantly capital-intensive products of Portugal's public sec-
tor, such as petrochemicals, fertilizers, steel and cement, seem to offer few
opportunities for export to the EEC. On the other hand, with some upgrading,
the traditional labor-intensive exports of textiles, clothing, shoes, and
processed foods appear to hold better prospects. But the best possibilities
appear to lie in industries producing light and heavy machinery as well as in
ship-building and ship-repair, where skilled and semi-skilled Portuguese
workers can utilize modern techniques. Some of these industries, such as
machine tools, may produce final goods for European or Third World markets
while others may engage in sub-contracting, benefiting from the tendency in
the more developed European countries to shift from the importation of labor
to that of parts, components, and accessories. The Government is aware of
these opportunities and, at its request, the Bank organized in April/May an
industrial sector mission which gave particular attention to ways to expand
industrial exports (see paragraph 2.08).
B.   Projected Operations
6.06      Annexes 20 to 25 present BFN's operational and financial projec-
tions for the five-year period 1977-81, as well as the major underlying
assumptions. The forecast of operations is based partially on BFN's pipe-
line of projects and assumes that BFN's contribution (including that of the
EFTA Fund it manages) to GFCF in Portugal will be about 7.5% p.a. over the
coming years while GFCF itself is assumed to increase at 15% p.a. This
latter assumption was based on the Bank's preliminary projections available
at the time of the appraisal mission which have since been revised downwards
to a growth rate of 13% p.a. However, BFN's contribution to GFCF in 1976 has
1/   The Medium-Term Plan will include development strategies for each indus-
trial subsector. These strategies are being prepared now for discussions
with representatives of the public and private sectors in the spring of
1977 and for incorporation in the Plan which is scheduled for submission
to the Assembly later in 1977.
2/   The Government is also studying the scope for efficient import-
substitution in selected industrial subsectors.



- 21 -
exceeded its forecast, and it appears likely that the 7.5% p.a. projected for
the future may also be exceeded. The level of BFN's projected operations
appear reasonable.
6.07      Total commitments are forecast to grow from Esc 7.9 billion ($263
million equivalent) in 1977 to Esc 15.1 billion ($504 million equivalent) in
1981. Total direct credit commitments are forecast to grow from Esc 4.1 bil-
lion ($136 million equivalent) to Esc 7.9 billion ($262 million equivalent)
over the same period. Imported goods and services, based on past experience,
are expected to represent 35% of the total. While in the past most of BFN's
loans were for terms of between five and seven years, the average term of
future loans may be longer as BFN becomes more involved in promotional
activities.
C.   Resource Requirements
6.08      For its future local currency requirements BFN expects to rely on
time deposits, certificates of deposit, retained earnings and share capital
increases. Its use of the Central Bank's discount facility is expected to
be reduced significantly. While the projected growth of time deposits is in
line with increases experienced before the revolution, the issuing of certi-
ficates of deposit would represent an innovation. The terms and conditions
of this new financial instrument are expected to be approved by the Government
in 1977. These certificates are, however, likely to have a term of between
two and five years. BFN anticipates placing this paper mainly with financial
institutions with excess liquidity, in particular CGD.
6.09      During the two-year period July 1977 to June 1979, when the proposed
Bank loan is expected to be committed, BFN forecasts that its overall commit-
ments for foreign currency loans will total about $225 million equivalent.
The proposed Bank loan, however, would be limited to direct credit to indus-
trial projects. Indirect credit is excluded as BFN does not appraise the
actual project involved (see paragraph 3.17). The focus on industrial proj-
ects is aimed at maximizing the impact on this important sector. No distinc-
tion is made within this sector as to the size, ownership or subsector of the
projects that can be submitted to the Bank so as to provide BFN with maximum
flexibility in committing the proposed loan quickly. However, BFN will in-
clude an analysis of the project's economic impact and has undertaken to submit
a representative mix of projects in terms of size of enterprise and subsector.
6.10      The foreign currency component of direct industrial credit committed
during the two years beginning July 1977 is forecast at $95 million equivalent.
The proposed Bank loan of $50 million would provide 53% of this amount, though
only 22% of BFN's total foreign currency requirements. With the existing
foreign currency loans expected to be fully committed by the end of 1977,
BFN still must secure substantial additional foreign resources. While a
second EIB loan is a possibility, BFN is also studying various other options
to further diversify its sources of foreign exchange including a new Euro-
market loan. BFN's management has expressed interest in the possibility
of using the present appraisal report (and perhaps also the Bank's economic
report) to help in arranging such a loan.



- 22 -
D.   Financial Prospects
6.11      The projected financial statements indicate that interest income is
expected to grow rapidly, mainly reflecting the growth in the outstanding loan
portfolio. BFN's average lending rate is conservatively projected at 11.5%
throughout the 1977-81 period and the average cost of borrowings, including
deposits, at 9.5%, allowing BFN a satisfactory spread of 2%. The lower growth
rate of interest expense reflects the expected decrease in the debt/equity
ratio. Administrative expenses are projected to increase at 16.5% p.a., the
same increase projected for the loan portfolio, reflecting staff additions
and normal increments. The overall result is that gross profit is expected
to increase from 8.8% of net worth in 1977 to 12.6% in 1981. No dividends
are projected during the 1977-81 period, which is acceptable to the Government.
6.12      The debt/equity ratio is forecast to decrease from 6.9 to 1 at the
end of 1976 to 5.1 to 1 at the end of 1981. The forecast 1977 capital in-
crease of Esc 1,500 million is already being negotiated with the Government.
Future capital increases are timed to maintain a debt/equity ratio of less
than 6 to 1. Interest coverage is expected to be maintained at between 1.2
and 1.3 over the 1977-81 period. Arrears are assumed to have reached their
peak in 1976 and are expected to decline in future years; the annual provi-
sion for doubtful debts is forecast at a satisfactory level.
VII. THE LOAN - ITS OBJECTIVES, JUSTIFICATION AND FEATURES
7.01      The objectives of the proposed loan to BFN would be:
(a)  on country grounds, to provide a transfer of resources to
ease the foreign exchange constraint faced by Portugal;
(b)  to contribute to the recovery of industrial sector invest-
ment with particular emphasis on industrial projects with
a high employment and export potential; and
(c)  to provide institution building assistance, as requested by
the Government and BFN, for the improvement of appraisal
and other procedures so as to enhance BFN's impact on the
industrial sector.
In addition, the proposed Bank loan may also serve as a catalyst for other
foreign lending to BFN.
7.02      As noted earlier there is an imperative need for Portugal to reduce
.Its balance of payments deficit. The proposed loan would help to achieve
Lhis objective not only through a resource transfer that might also attract
other potential lenders, but also through the financing of industrial projects,
most of which are expected to show a high potential to earn or save foreign
exchange. Furthermore, as noted in Chapter VI, good prospects exist for the
development of a number of industrial subsectors in which Portugal still has



- 23 -
a comparative advantage and where there is a significant potential for job
creation. These subsectors include a substantial number of PMEs whose eco-
nomic and financial viability can be restored through appropriate restructuring.
7.03      Regarding the institution building objective, BFN's management has
expressed a keen interest in receiving technical assistance from the Bank
which it feels is as important as the Bank's financial assistance, a view
reiterated by the Government on several occasions. Bank assistance towards
the development of improved appraisal methodology, and hence project selection,
is anticipated as the main area of focus. Such assistance would be provided
to BFN not only through the process of subproject review but also through
missions and support to BFN's internal training programs.
7.04      BFN has adopted a strategy statement outlining the objectives it
hopes to achieve during the 1977-78 period; it is attached as Annex 26.  Three
basic objectives emerge:
(a) contribution to economic recovery and to solving the
unemployment and balance of payments problems;
(b) improvement in BFN's capacity to mobilize domestic and
foreign financial resources; and
(c) strengthening of BFN's organizational structures, internal
procedures and working methods.
These objectives are well balanced and steer BFN's course in the right direc-
tion. They are worthy of Bank support and the proposed Bank loan will help
to achieve all three of them.
7.05      The proceeds of the proposed loan will be used to cover the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported goods and services as well as the foreign
exchange component of locally procured imported goods (estimated at 50% on
average) and of locally produced goods (35%) for industrial projects receiving
direct credits from BFN. Particularly worthy projects from other sectors
that have an industrial component might be included on an exceptional basis.
Individual subloans are limited to a maximum of $3.0 million equivalent. The
free limit is $600,000. Instead of establishing an aggregate free limit BFN
has confirmed that it will submit full documentation for between 15 and 20
projects, whether above or below the free limit, to the Bank for review,
with the majority being submitted during the first year of the loan. This
reflects BFN's desire to benefit from the Bank's experience in appraisal
work so as to improve its own.
7.06      The usual adjustable composite amortization schedule is proposed so
that repayments to the Bank by BFN are matched by repayments BFN receives from
its borrowers. The maximum term of individual subloans is twelve years. This
will ensure that the entire Bank loan is repaid within 15 years, though most
of the loan will be repaid much sooner given the usual shorter term of subloans.
The Loan Agreement provides that BFN will prepare a Project Completion Report
once the proposed loan is fully disbursed. Other terms of the proposed loan
are those normally applied to DFC borrowers. The estimated schedule of
disbursements is shown in Annex 27.



- 24 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
issues:
(a) the operation and future of the Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund
(paragraph 2.13);
(b) the strengthening of BFN's appraisal work (paragraph 3.19);
(c) the strengthening of BFN's supervision work (paragraph 3.23);
(d) the reduction of arrears (paragraph 5.08); and
(e) the payment for overseas assets and liabilities (paragraph 5.13).
8.02      Subject to the condition of effectiveness described in paragraph
5.15, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of $50 million to BFN on the
terms outlined in paragraphs 7.05 and 7.06.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PORTUGAL
The Environment for BFN's Operations
A.   The Economic Environment
1         In the five-year period preceding the revolution of April 25, 1974,
Portugal's real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 7%. This growth was
sustained by a relatively high rate of gross fixed capital formation (GFCF)
averaging some 20% of GDP and accompanied by a strong export performance with
exports increasing at a rate of about 9% p.a. in real terms. In 1973 GDP at
market prices was $11.4 billion equivalent, total GFCF, $2.3 billion equiv-
alent, and exports, $1.7 billion equivalent. The development strategy favored,
however, a very skewed distribution of income and wealth, and neglected the
important agriculture and education sectors while, due to the predominance
of capital intensive investment, the industrial sector was unable to absorb
Portugal's increasing labor force, part of which had to seek work abroad.
2.        The revolution sought to shift the distribution of income in favor
of the urban and rural working class and to transfer economic power from a
small number of powerful companies and families to the State. However, the
unsettled labor situation and the political uncertainties characterized by six
changes of Government in the first 18 months following the revolution, to-
gether with the recession in the economies of Portugal's major trading part-
ners, the partial loss of overseas markets following a rapid decolonization
process and the substantial increases in the prices of Portugal's imports,
adversely affected the performance of the Portuguese economy in 1974 and 1975.
The rate of growth of GDP slowed down in 1974 and became negative by about 3% in
1975, the sectors suffering most being construction, manufacturing and tourism.
GFCF declined by 3% in 1974 and 39% in 1975, reaching a low level of 12% of
GDP. A very high level of both private and public consumption, exceeding GDP
in 1975, pushed gross domestic savings to negative levels and reduced national
savings (which include remittances from Portuguese workers abroad) to a low
level of 6% of GDP in 1975. A certain improvement materialized in 1976 with
small increases in GDP and GFCF and gross domestic savings becoming again posi-
tive. Besides a high rate of inflation estimated at about 22% for 1976, the
most serious problems which the policy makers are now facing, though, are the
unprecedented level of unemployment and the sharp deterioration of Portugal's
balance of payments position.
3.        Unemployment.  There were at the end of 1976 about half a million
unemployed persons in Portugal, 14% of the labor force. This very high level
of unemployment was produced by a combination of external factors which have
added to the supply of labor (the influx of about 500,000 displaced persons
from the former overseas territories, the drastic decline in the traditional
emigration due to restrictions and lack of demand in European countries for
imported labor, and the demobilization of the armed forces) and of internal
factors which have prevented the demand for labor to expand (the unfavorable
labor relations climate, uncertain export markets, sharply rising unit labor
costs, falling profit margins and acute liquidity problems). On the other



ANNEX 1
Page 2
hand, trade union pressures, legislation against dismissals and in some cases
State intervention 1/ prevented many enterprises facing financial difficulties
from discharging part of their labor force or closing down altogether. The
cost of such measures, however, has been to create widespread underemployment.
4.        Balance of Payments.  Portugal's trade deficit in 1976 reached $1.7
billion (compared to $0.9 billion in 1973), while the deficit on the current
account balance slightly exceeded $1.0 billion (compared to a surplus of $0.3
billion in 1973). The sharp deterioration of the trade balance reflects
higher imports of food and other consumer goods, a declining export performance
and a deterioration in the terms of trade (10% in 1975) associated mainly with
the increase in the price for imported oil and raw materials. Exports declined
in real terms by about 11 and 15% in 1974 and 1975 respectively though they
appear to have somewhat increased in 1976. The poor export performance is the
result of a combination of external and internal factors: world recession,
lack of confidence of foreign clients, sharp decrease of demand from the
former overseas territories and deterioration in price competitiveness of
Portuguese exports following the sharp rise in labor costs.
5.        Recovery Measures.  To cope with the deterioration of the economic
situation and to initiate the long term adjustments necessary to resume
growth in the economy, the Government introduced in early 1976 a courageous
package of austerity measures aimed at containing private and public con-
sumption as well as imports while a more favorable climate was restored
to encourage investment and exports. This set of measures was confirmed
and expanded in the program of the first constitutional Government (the
Government's Program) which was approved by the Assembly of the Republic
in August 1976. The Government's Program includes a comprehensive statement
of the Government's economic philosophy which blends public and private
initiative in the achievement of priority goals to be established by the
Plan. A one-year Plan for 1977, approved by the Assembly in December 1976,
outlines more detailed macro-economic targets and policy measures designed
to revive the economy. On February 26, 1977, the Government officially de-
valued the escudo by 15% 2/ as part of a comprehensive economic policy package
expected to improve the balance of payment situation and to stimulate the re-
covery of the economy.
B.   The Industrial Environment
6.        Industrial Structure and Performance in the Past.  Manufacturing
industry was the leading sector in the Portuguese economy during the 1960's
and early 1970's. Value added grew at an average rate of about 10% p.a. from
1968 to 1973 when it reached $3.6 billion equivalent or 35% of GDP at factor
oost. In the same year manufacturing industry, operating at 85-90% of
1/   In 1974 and 1975 State intervention was prompted in about 250 private
industrial enterprises by serious financial or labor relations problems.
Such intervention is now being phased out.
2/   The new exchange rate is 1 US$ 38.73 compared to 1 US$ 32.92 on the eve
of th devaluation.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
capacity on average, employed 868,400 people or 28% of the labor force and
accounted for exports of $1.3 billion equivalent, over 70% of the total.
GFCF was about $650 million equivalent or 28% of the total. 1/ This remarkable
performance took place, however, within a seriously unbalanced industrial
structure. Growth was concentrated in a relatively small number of large and
modern enterprises enjoying privileged access to credit and foreign technology,
while the vast majority of medium and small enterprises, accounting for the
bulk of industrial employment, were given little assistance and few incentives
to modernize and reach adequate dimensions. All this occurred in a context of
artificially low wages (supported by a ban on trade-union activities), cheap
raw materials and energy, restrictive industrial licensing (only somewhat
relaxed in 1970), protective tariffs and privileged conditions for Portuguese
exports in the former overseas territories. As a consequence of this pattern
of development, the manufacturing sector remained highly fragmented 2/ and
manufacturing employment grew by only 0.5% p.a. during 1963-73.
7.        This unbalanced industrial structure proved particularly vulnerable
to the profound changes in the domestic and international environment that
occurred in 1974 and 1975. While the performance of many large firms was
affected by sluggish export markets, disruptions in labor relations 3/, state
intervention or outright nationalization, most of the small and medium enter-
prises were plunged into a serious liquidity crisis by the sharp increases
in nominal wages 4/ and in the cost of energy and raw materials while they
faced increasing difficulties in rolling over their short-term bank credit.
Manufacturing output increased by only 2% in 1974 and fell by 5% in 1975.
Capacity utilization dropped to 80% in 1974 and to between 65 and 75% in 1975.
Problems of absenteeism, the inability of enterprises to discharge workers
and a shorter work week made industrial labor productivity decrease by 4% in
1975 while industrial employment stagnated. Manufacturing exports decreased
by 10% in 1974 and 13% in 1975. The drop in profits combined with political
uncertainties caused domestic and foreign private investment to come almost
to a standstill.
8.        The Public Sector.  Following the nationalization in March 1975
of the most important firms (with the exception of those that were foreign-
owned) in steel, oil refining, chemicals, cement, shipbuilding, beer and
1/   The growth rates of the various manufacturing subsectors over the
1968-73 period, and in 1974 and 1975 are given in Table 1 attached.
The respective contributions of these subsectors to gross value
added in 1973 are given in Table 2.
2/   Of about 43,000 manufacturing enterprises in 1974 almost three-
quarters employed less than five workers, and only about 1,500
employed more than 100.
3/   Besides demands for improved terms of employment, union militancy
led to interference in management.
4/   Nominal wages in the manufacturing sector increased by 38.5% in
1974 and 25.0% in 1975.



ANNEX I
Page 4
tobacco, about 9% of Portuguese manufacturing output is now produced by
publicly owned firms. With the simultaneous nationalization of banks and
insurance companies, the Portuguese State has acquired a controlling interest
in firms producing another 2% of output and it holds minority participations
in firms accounting for 5% of output in the manufacturing sector. The firms
under various degrees of State control, however, account for about 34% of
fixed capital formation in the manufacturing sector though only 12% of
employment 1/, reflecting their higher than average capital intensity. Fol-
lowing a period of improvisation, and alarmed by the substantial deficits
experienced by several important nationalized enterprises, the Government is
now taking suitable steps to reorganize the vastly expanded public sector and
to restore its financial equilibrium.
9.        Realizing that some time might be needed before a strong revival
in private investment materializes, the Government is counting on public
sector enterprises to launch ambitious investment programs that would spear-
head the recovery of the whole economy. This effort is hampered by the lack
of experience of public sector managers in project preparation, appraisal
and implementation. Also, some of the major public sector projects, in par-
ticular the huge Sines project 2/, do not seem well suited to Portugal's
resource endowments and comparative advantages. With a very high cost per
job created, these projects hold little hope of alleviating significantly the
unemployment problem. The Government is conscious of these deficiencies and
eager to improve the quality of investment decision making in the public
sector. Work in this respect is already underway, supported by the Bank, to
train staff members in the Ministries of Planning and Industry and in BFN and
to develop the data needed for the computation of the internal economic rate
of return and other such indicators of the economic viability of public sec-
tor investment projects.
10.       The Private Sector.  Private firms continue to dominate aggregate
output and to employ the bulk of the industrial labor force, particularly
in the small and medium size segments of the manufacturing sector. The
dominance of private firms is even greater in regard to the export of manu-
factured goods (93%), the major exporting industries being food processing,
textiles, clothing and footwear, wood and cork products, and electrical and
non-electrical machinery. These are the industries where Portugal has the
best possibilities for increasing exports and employment in the future.
1/   All percentages on the relative importance of the public sector are based
on 1973 figures for value added, gross fixed capital formation and employ-
ment of firms now included in the public sector.
2/   The Sines industrial complex, to be built 150 kilometers south of Lisbon,
will comprise a deep water port, an oil refinery, a petrochemical complex,
a steel plant, a pyrite plant and other manufacturing plants. At the
Portuguese Government's request, the Bank is providing assistance in re-
evaluating the Sines complex.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
However, despite this potential, investment in the private manufacturing
sector is returning only slowly to its pre-revolution level. Time is needed
to restore confidence, reestablish labor relations on a new basis, adjust to
the new factor prices and create new conditions of profitable operation for
the domestic and export markets. In addition, many private companies still
experience liquidity problems or have lost part of their equity which makes
it difficult for them to comply with the banking community's requirements
concerning appropriate debt/equity ratios.
11.       Government Policies.  Through numerous pieces of legislation passed
since November 1975 the Government has already made a major effort to alleviate
the fears of private enterpreneurs and restore a more favorable investment
climate. The Government's Program, in addition to setting broad orientations
for Portugal's industrial policy, announced a calendar of legislative proposals
to be submitted to the Assembly which will give additional substance to the
Government's stated commitment to restore confidence in the private sector.
It can be reasonably expected that the announced measures, combined with a
period of industrial tranquility, will stimulate a gradual recovery of private
manufacturing investment and a resumption of industrial expansion.
12.       Government Attitude Towards the Private Sector.  The Government's
Program explicitly recognizes the positive role to be played by the private
sector in the country's economic development. A law under discussion by the
Assembly would exclude private enterprise activity only from public utilities,
heavy industry, armaments and banking. Furthermore, the Government's Program
clearly states that no further nationalizations are envisaged and guidelines
have been established for the compensation of the previous owners of national-
ized enterprises. At the same time the resumption of foreign direct invest-
ment is encouraged by the Foreign Investment Code published in April 1976
which, except for a few provisions still to be clarified, offers generally
attractive conditions and adequate guarantees to foreign investors. The
Government has appointed a committee to establish the Foreign Investment
Institute which will be in charge of promoting, monitoring and orienting
foreign direct investment in Portugal.
13.       The February 1977 economic policy package includes further measures
to promote a revival of private initiative, in particular (a) acceleration of
compensation procedures for foreign owners of assets nationalized since the
revolution; (b) the possibility for the Portuguese holders of shares or
securities of nationalized companies to make use of provisional compensations
to settle debts to the social security system, the State or the credit insti-
tutions; (c) debt consolidation schemes combined with certain incentives for
economically viable enterprises in financial difficulty if they commit them-
selves to certain production, productivity, and financial targets; and (d) the
revaluation of assets to increase equity and allow for larger depreciation
allowances. Another measure under consideration is the possibility to use
future compensation for nationalized assets as collateral for loans financing
new investments in priority sectors.



ANNEX I
Page 6
14.       Labor Relations.  After a period marked by troubled relations between
management and labor and a decline in discipline and productivity, the labor
movement appears to acknowledge the need for moderation in its demands and for
increases in production and productivity. The Government's Program clearly
expresses the Government's commitment to create the conditions for a climate
of productive labor and social peace, and includes a timetable for the sub-
mission to the Assembly of a comprehensive program of labor legislation. The
Government has already submitted to the Assembly several legislative proposals,
in particular new regulations concerning workers' dismissals (causes for dis-
missal will now include unjustified refusal to obey orders, unjustified absent-
eism, and acts of violence against property and persons), strike regulations,
and delineation of workers' rights to control their enterprises. These legis-
lative proposals are now being discussed by the Assembly. Their announcement
has already had a favorable impact in reducing absenteism and improving labor
discipline and labor relations in general.
15.       Price and Wage Control.  Following the revolution, price controls
were established covering strategic agricultural and industrial products, as
well as goods and services sold by companies with sales exceeding Esc 50 mil-
lion ($1.7 million equivalent). By the end of 1975 price controls extended to
some 60% of the goods and services sold domestically. Combined with the sharp
increase in wages and in the prices of imported oil and raw materials, these
controls definitely contributed to the heavy losses experienced by public and
private enterprises, and discouraged investment. However, with the exception
of foodstuffs and a few products of special importance to the lower income
groups, some liberalization in the use of price controls took place in 1976.
The official target in approving price increases is to pass on increases in
cost and to allow a return on invested capital equivalent to interest rates
for long-term loans plus a risk premium. On the wages side, the Government
has worked hard to achieve moderation in recent rounds of collective bargain-
ing and has set a 15% ceiling (well below the 1976 rate of inflation) in its
guidelines for wage increases being negotiated for 1977. However, with union
militancy being the crucial factor in intersectoral wage disparities, it will
take some time before the Government can establish a coherent and equitable
incomes and price policy. The recently created National Council of Incomes
and Prices, bringing together representatives of the workers, the managers of
public and private enterprises and the Government agencies, will provide a
useful forum for discussion but can hardly be expected to eliminate in the
short run the widespread distortions prevailing in the Portuguese price
system.
16.       Incentives to Export.  Since November 1975 the Government has sub-
stantially reorganized and expanded its system of export incentives, described
Appendix A.  The Government has also negotiated trade concessions for
2  tuguese exports with the EEC and EFTA.  In September 1976 a protocol was
rgned with the EEC which, among other things, increased the ceiling on
selected Portuguese exports such as textiles and abolished customs duties on
many industrial imports into the EEC from Portugal. Furthermore, the 15%
devaluation of the escudo in February 1977 (combined with the 24% de facto
devaluation that took place between April 1974 and February 1977) is expected



ANNEX 1
Page 7
to compensate to a great extent for the decline in the competitive position
of Portuguese industries resulting from the faster labor cost increases in
Portugal than in Portugal's major trading partners.
17.       Tariff Protection.  Although officially justified by infant industry
considerations, Portugal's tariff for industrial goods favored, before the
revolution, the development of a number of inefficient subsectors such as the
plethora of car assembly lines. Since the revolution, tariff protection was
substantially reinforced. In May 1975, a surcharge of 20 to 30% was imposed
covering mainly intermediate goods and consumer goods. In October 1976, the
import surcharge was further increased to 30% on intermediate goods and a sur-
charge of 60% was imposed on non-essential commodities. The Government also
introduced an advance deposit requirement (50% of the value of imports to be
deposited for six months without interest) on some of the goods subject to
import surcharges. Together with the 15% devaluation of the escudo, the Gov-
ernment imposed in February 1977 quota on imports of certain non-essential
products and increased the number of consumer goods subject to the 60% import
surcharge. Although these measures provide an immediate means of reducing
Portugal's balance of payments deficit, the maintenance of a high level of
protection further distorts the domestic price structure, encourages domestic
production of non-essential products at high costs and discriminates against
export activities. The Government views such protection as a temporary
necessity and expects to open the industrial sector to more competition as
the country prepares itself for admission into the EEC.
18.       Support to Small and Medium Enterprises.  Before the creation, fol-
lowing the revolution, of the Institute for the Support of Small and Medium
Industrial Enterprises (IAPMEI) there was no Government agency to deal with
the specific problems of small and medium enterprises (pequenas e medias
empresas or PMEs) 1/, which still account for more than 60% of employment
in industry. The first task of IAPMEI has been to help PMEs survive their
liquidity crisis by facilitating through guarantees and other means their
access to bank credit. Now, with a professional staff of about 100 and six
regional offices in addition to its Lisbon headquarters, IAPMEI has begun
to address the more fundamental restructuring needs of PMEs, made imperative
by the new economic environment. This is done through various forms of
financial and technical assistance, short however of direct lending (see
Appendix B).
19.       Investment Incentives.  Portugal developed in the early 1970's a
fairly sophisticated system of investment incentives. These incentives are
still in force, although they have been overshadowed since the revolution
by Portugal's uncertain political and social situation. With the return of
industrial tranquility, they could play again a role in the sectoral and
regional allocation of investment. The incentives aim at broadening Portugal's
industrial base through the establishment of new industries, the strengthening
of Portugal's competitive position through technological innovation and
productivity gains, and the correction of imbalances in regional development.
1/   Enterprises currently eligible for IAPMEI's assistance include industrial
enterprises with between 5 and 400 workers and annual sales not exceeding
Esc 100 million ($3.3 million equivalent).



ANNEX 1
Page 8
The fiscal incentives offered include tax holidays of three to ten years,
exemption from customs duties on imported equipment and from capital gains
tax, carry-over of losses, investment allowances and accelerated depreciation.
Grants toward feasibility studies, interest subsidies and State guarantees may
also be extended on a case-by-case basis. On the whole these investment
incentives are comparable to those offered in other semi-industrialized coun-
tries. However, because they all tend to reduce the cost of capital, they
may involve a bias towards capital-intensive investments and therefore con-
tribute inadequately to the solution of one of Portugal's most pressing
problems, unemployment. The Government is well aware of these interrelated
problems of unemployment, choice of technology and cost of capital. The Gov-
ernment has expressed its intention to emphasize more in the future, subject
to their long-term economic viability, those investments in the industrial
sector that have the maximum direct and indirect employment impact. More
emphasis will also be put on export-oriented and import-substituting projects.
These new orientations will be articulated in the Medium-Term Plan and could
possibly include changes in the system of investment incentives.
C. The Financial Environment
20.       Besides BFN, Portugal's financial sector consisted at the end of 1976
of the Banco de Portugal (Portugal's Central Bank), 19 commercial banks, the
Caixa Geral de Depositos (CGD, Portugal's largest savings bank) and 19 other
savings banks, the Sociedade Financiera Portuguesa (a specialized financial
institution), insurance companies, a few parabanking institutions, and the
Lisbon Stock Exchange. A description of these institutions is to be found in
Appendix C.
21.       During the two years following the revolution, the financial sector
underwent profound changes affecting the size and pattern of flows of funds as
well as the institutional structure of the sector. The sharp drop in private
savings combined with the huge financing needs of the Government and the
deteriorating financial position of many firms in both the public and private
sectors put considerable pressure on financial intermediaries and obliged the
Central Bank to finance a large proportion of credit through rediscounting
operations and money creation. Credits extended by the financial community to
the public and private productive sector increased from Esc 249.5 billion
($8.3 billion equivalent) at the end of 1973 (of which only Esc 13.9 billion
[$0.5 billion equivalent] was granted by or rediscounted with the Central Bank)
to Esc 347.7 billion ($11.6 billion equivalent) at June 30, 1976 (of which Esc
94.8 billion [$3.2 billion equivalent] was granted by or rediscounted with the
Central Bank). Whereas such an expansionary policy was justified by the need
to avoid a more severe recession, it is now recognized that further credit ex-
pansion must be much more selective, directing resources towards economically
viable enterprises capable of alleviating the unemployment and balance of
payments problems.
22.       The institutional structure of the financial sector was affected by
the nationalization in March 1975 of all commercial banks and insurance com-
panies, with the exception of those owned by foreign interests, which brought



ANNEX 1
Page 9
most financial institutions under Government control. The Government set up
in 1975 a Commission for the Restructuring of the Banking Sector. The Commis-
sion, which has not yet submitted its report, is expected to make recommenda-
tions concerning a possible reduction in the number of commercial banks, ways
to improve the distribution of commercial bank branches throughout the country
and the desirability of creating specialized credit institutions for agricul-
ture and housing. The institutional structure for investment credit to
industry is not expected to be affected by the conclusions of the Commission.
23.       Lending Activities.  Table 1 of Appendix C shows the distribution of
medium- and long-term lending activities between commercial banks, CGD, other
savings banks and BFN. It shows that while BFN accounted at the end of 1975
for 23.1% of total outstanding medium- and long-term credit to enterprises and
individuals, CGD accounted for 56.7%, the other savings banks for 7.3% and the
commercial banks for 12.9%. While commercial bank credit is spread between
all sectors (including trade), and is mostly with terms not exceeding two
years, the other financial institutions tend to be more specialized and to
lend for longer terms. Savings banks other than CGD play only a minor role
outside of consumer credit and the financing of housing and construction.
CGD is dominant in financing government agencies, housing, transport, tele-
communications, agriculture and fisheries. For industry as a whole 1/ CGD's
term financing exceeds that of BFN's, while for manufacturing industry only,
BFN is the more important source of term financing. As of the end of 1975,
BFN held approximately $580 million equivalent of term loans to industry, or
39% of the total financing for that sector (versus $620 million equivalent or
42% for CGD). In manufacturing only, BFN held about $460 million equivalent
or 49% of the total (versus $350 million equivalent or 36% for CGD).
24.       In its lending to manufacturing industries CGD has a reputation of
processing credit applications slowly and of being highly security-conscious
(an attitude also shared by commercial banks) while BFN's appraisal procedures,
though still needing improvement, are both more rapid and more thorough. Al-
though the adequacy of the securities offered is not overlooked, BFN puts more
emphasis on the merits of the projects being financed. For this reason BFN
appears to be the best financial institution through which to channel assist-
ance to the Portuguese industrial sector.
25.       Domestic Resource Mobilization.  Since the revolution time deposits
have become the only financial instrument through which the Portuguese finan-
cial sector has been able to mobilize domestic savings. No new issue of pri-
vate securities has taken place since the closing immediately after the revolu-
tion of the Lisbon and Oporto Stock Exchanges. The only issues of bonds have
been those of the Government, which have been floated at attractive terms with
which financial institutions like BFN could not compete given the ceilings on
on-lending rates. The Lisbon Stock Exchange was reopened for bonds in January
1976 though trading has remained very limited so far. In February 1977, the
1/   In addition to manufacturing, the industrial sector includes extractive
industries and public works.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
Government reopened the market for shares, though with new regulations. Con-
sideration is also being given to introducing new types of financial instru-
ments, like certificates of deposits which could only be issued by BFN and CGD.
26.       While in mobilizing time deposits commercial banks are limited by
law to accepting deposits with terms not exceeding one year, more than 85%
of time deposits accepted by BFN, CGD and the other savings banks are with
terms exceeding one year. At June 30, 1976, BFN had time deposits estimated
at Esc 9.7 billion ($0.3 billion equivalent) compared to Esc 38.5 billion
($1.3 billion equivalent) for CGD and Esc 9.5 billion ($0.3 billion equiva-
lent) for other savings banks. CGD's dominant position is due to its role
as banker for Government agencies, to its image of stability created by a
100-year history, to its extensive branch network in Portugal and to its
connections abroad to attract workers' remittances. This also explains why
savings continued to flow into CGD in 1975 whereas BFN and commercial banks
were faced with stagnation or actual decreases in their time deposits and
forced to resort to Central Bank rediscounts to finance the expansion of their
lending. The savings flow into CGD was at such a rate that it not only sus-
tained the increase in CGD's lending but it also led to the accumulation of
substantial liquid funds, estimated at Esc 8.9 billion ($0.3 billion equiva-
lent) at the end of June 1976. As CGD's present pipeline of loan applications
makes it unlikely that these liquid funds could be lent for investment purposes
in the short term, some arrangement would be desirable whereby CGD could put
part of its excess resources at the disposal of BFN. Possibilities include
either direct loans to BFN (for instance in the form of certificates of
deposit issued by BFN), the co-financing of important industrial projects
appraised by BFN, or the sale by BFN to CGD of the shorter maturities of some
of its loans. 1/
This last possibility could be particularly attractive to CGD as it
would amount to lending medium-term funds at the higher interest
rates allowed for longer term loans.
Source: EMENA/IDF
April 1977



PORTUGAL
'1 /
Manufacturing - Output Rates of Growth, 1968-75
(Constant 1970 prices, in percent)
1968-73            1974              1975
Food, beverages and tobacco                               6.6              13.1              27.0
Textiles, clothing and footwear                          11.6               5.8             -17.2
Wood, cork and furniture                                  4.8              -1.0             - 6.9
Paper, printing and publishing                            6.5              29.3               0.5
Chemicals and related activities                         10.2                 0               5.6
No*-metal mineral products                               10.5               2.8               1.9
Basic metal industries                                   11.9             -13.1             -18.2
Metal products, mechanical and electrical
equipment, and transport equipment                       12.6              -1.0             -12.9
Miscellaneous manufacturing industries                    2.2             -16.8              21.3
Total manufacturing                                       9.9               2.1              -4.9
1/  According to preliminary estimates the increase of manufacturing output in 1976 was 5.6%.
Source:  National Institute of Statistics and Central Planning Secretariat.
February 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 2
PORTUGAL
Distribution of Gross Value Added
by Manufacturing Sub-Sectors in 1973
Gross Value Added
Esc. million         %
Food, beverages and tobacco                           9,299             10.3
Textiles, clothing and footwear                      19,596             21.8
Wood, cork and furniture                              6,295              7.0
Paper, printing and publishing                        3,673              4.1
Chemicals and related activities                     10,664             11.8
Non-metal mineral products                            6,919              7.7
Basic metal industries                                3,678              4.1
Metal products, mechanical and electrical
equipment, and transport equipment                   25,283             28.1
Miscellaneous manufacturing industries                4,582              5.1
Total manufacturing                                  89,989            100.0
Source: Central Planning Secretariat
Fehruary 1977



ANNEX 1
Appendix A
Page 1
PORTUGAL
Incentives for Exports
Since November 1975 the Government has substantially reorganized
and expanded its system of export incentives, which now include the following:
1.   Financial Facilities
Preferential interest rates apply to export credit (see Annex 3).
A Council for the Financing of External Trade has been created within the
Central Bank aimed, among others, at coordinating the activities of the
various credit institutions and of COSEC (see paragraph 2 below) in support
of exports. Furthermore, the system of export financing has been reorganized,
introducing such new features as direct financing of foreign importers and
financing of market research, export promotion programs and establishment
of commercial networks and warehouses abroad. Also, in an effort to make
Portuguese enterprises competitive in supplying less developed countries with
heavy equipment, a special financing arrangement has been established for this
type of export and the associated feasibility studies.
2.   Credit Insurance for Exports
The system of credit insurance for exports was strengthened by a
law in April 1976 which endowed the state-owned Credit Insurance Company
(COSEC) with a new autonomous status and introduced a broader and clearer
classification of credit insurance policies. Most important for exports is
the introduction of insurance policies for direct credit by Portuguese banks
to foreign importers, and the broadening of insurance policies to cover risks
associated with market research, export promotion programs and establishing
commercial networks and warehouses abroad. Insurance policies have also been
introduced covering exchange risks and abnormal and unforeseeable increases
in production costs owing to modifications in economic conditions affecting
the execution of export contracts. Finally, COSEC has strengthened its ties
with major international reinsurance companies, and obtained admission, with
observer status, in the International Union of Credit and Investment Insurers
(Berne Union).
3.   Export Promotion Fund
The Export Promotion Fund is being reorganized to make it more
responsive to exporters' needs. The Fund maintains 30 delegations in for-
eign countries and various sectoral working groups in Portugal providing



ANNEX 1
Appendix A
Page 2
technical and commercial assistance to exporters. The Fund undertakes and
publishes both general country studies on foreign markets and specific studies
on the prospects for particular Portuguese products abroad. In addition to
the traditional Western European and U.S. markets, special efforts are being
made to help Portuguese exporters enter new markets in the Middle East, Latin
America and Eastern Europe. The Fund is also in charge of stimulating the
conclusion of export development contracts and of controlling their imple-
mentation.
4.   Export Development Contracts
Special incentives may be granted to firms or groups of firms con-
cluding export development contracts with the Export Promotion Fund under
which they undertake to implement projects of investment, reorganization or
restructuring (including association or mergers of small and medium enter-
prises and joint ventures with foreign partners) in an effort to increase
non-traditional exports or develop new markets. The incentives include:
(a) technical and commercial assistance from the Fund;
(b) support in obtaining bank credit at the reduced rate
applying to rediscountable export credit;
(c) support in obtaining credit insurance from COSEC at
reduced premium rates (with the Fund compensating
COSEC for the difference from the normal premium rates);
(d) interest subsidies and participation by the Fund in R&D,
marketing and promotion expenditures;
(e) exemption from or reduction of direct taxes on profits
from exports made under the development contract;
(f) deduction from the amount assessable under the Industrial
Contribution (the basic profits tax) of the value of the
investment goods raising the technological level of the
sector of activity to which they belong; and
(g) accelerated depreciation of equipment and other fixed
assets used to produce the goods and services covered
by the development contract.
Drawback Facilities
The scope of the drawback facilities for imported inputs used in
the manufacture of exports was broadened in April 1976 to include not only
raw materials but also all types of intermediate goods. The granting of
the drawback remains, however, conditional on a statement by the Ministry
of Industry that equivalent goods cannot be procured in Portugal.



ANNEX I
Appendix A
Page 3
6.   Foreign Investment in Export Oriented Activities
The Foreign Investment Code, approved in April 1976, sets higher
ceilings (20% of invested capital instead of 12%) for profit remittances by
foreign-owned companies when they export more than 50% of their production.
Source: EMENA/IDF
April 1977



ANNEX 1
Appendix B
Page 1
PORTUGAL
Forms of Assistance Extended by the Institute for the
Support of Small and Medium Industrial Enterprises (IAPMEI)
To qualify for assistance from IAPMEI, industrial PMEs 1/ must
employ between 5 and 400 persons and have annual sales not exceeding Esc 100
million ($3.3 million equivalent). However, IAPMEI's assistance may be
extended to groupings of enterprises or enterprises which, following a re-
structuring approved by IAPMEI, exceed the 400 employees or Esc 100 million
sales limits. Out of the about 15,000 industrial enterprises thought to meet
the above conditions, 8,000 have already applied for some form of support from
IAPMEI. The following forms of assistance can be extended by IAPMEI to quali-
fying PMEs:
1.   Financial Assistance
IAPMEI is not itself a credit institution but it facilitates PME's
access to credit through the following facilities:
(a) Guarantees for short-term loans which pre-finance confirmed
orders or finance the purchase of raw materials. The maximum
guarantee in each case is Esc 3.0 million ($100,000 equivalent)
or 50% of the risk, whichever is less. By June 30, 1976,
IAPMEI had guaranteed 372 loans for Esc 222 million ($7.4
million equivalent) under this facility. Repayment had al-
ready started on 175 of these loans, with 36 being affected
by arrears.
(b) Guarantees for medium- and long-term loans which finance fixed
and working capital investment or expenditures incurred in
restructuring operations. The maximum guarantee in each case
is Esc 10 million ($333,000 equivalent), 2/ except in cases of
mergers, joint ventures or projects located on industrial
estates where the ceiling can be raised. By June 30, 1976,
IAPMEI had guaranteed 218 loans for Esc 253 million ($8.4
million equivalent) under this facility. 3/
1/   Different qualifications apply to other types of PMEs.
2/   The Esc 10 million ceiling includes also guarantees for short-term loans.
3/   In 1975 91 loan applications were submitted to BFN through IAPMEI.  BFN
approved 46 loans partially guaranteed by IAPMEI and 26 others with no
guarantee.



ANNEX I
Appendix B
Page 2
(c) Interest rate subsidies. On a case-by-case basis IAPMEI
may grant interest subsidies of up to 3% for a maximum
period of three years for investment loans contributing
to specifically approved objectives (employment, regional
development, groupings of enterprises and other initia-
tives supported by IAPMEI).
(d) Support in obtaining from credit institutions the dis-
counting of commercial paper and particularly of debt owed
by the State, local authorities and pubic enterprises.
(e) Support in obtaining a rescheduling of debt, particularly
when short-term debt had been contracted to finance fixed
assets (a widespread practice for PMEs before the revolu-
tion).
2.  Technical Assistance
When approached by a PME with problems, IAPMEI is prepared to
carry out a short study of the major difficulties. Eight thousand such
studies had been made by June 30, 1976. IAPMEI is also prepared to follow
up with technical, financial and managerial advice. In addition, a list
of potential managers has been assembled which can be made available to
PMEs looking for new managers. A comprehensive program of training activi-
ties is also being set up, including training of PMEs' workers in the
understanding of basic concepts of business economics.
3.   Promotion of Industrial Investment
IAPMEI has funds to assist in the financing of R & D expenditures
and feasibility studies for individual enterprises or groupings of enter-
prises. A special effort is made to promote export-oriented or import-
substituting activities. Fourteen projects have been studied so far
including projects in the wood, metal products, and textile industries.
4.   Mergers and Other Forms of Collaboration
IAPMEI performs a brokerage function in encouraging firms to merge
or establish other forms of collaboration. By October 1976 IAPMEI had contri-
buted to 40 mergers or collaboration agreements and 17 more were being prepared.
Source: EMENA/IDF
April 1977



ANNEX 1
Appendix C
Page 1
PORTUGAL
Portugal's Financial Institutions
(Other than BFN)
1.   Banco de Portugal
Banco de Portugal is Portugal's Central Bank. In addition to
its responsibilities in the control of the money supply, it has the usual
regulatory powers over credit institutions and establishes maximum interest
rates as well as reserve requirements. It offers rediscount facilities to
credit institutions and uses a system of preferential rates to orient credit
towards priority sectors.
2.   Commercial Banks
There were at the end of 1976 16 commercial banks with their head
offices in Portugal and three foreign-owned banks. The former were all
nationalized following the revolution and endowed with a new status leaving
them with an appreciable degree of financial and administrative autonomy.
Their number is expected to be reduced in the course of 1977 as a result of
several mergers. Commercial banks traditionally have been and remain basic-
ally a source of short-term credit for the productive sectors, mainly through
discounting of bills, although this credit is usually renewed more or less as
needed. Since 1969 the commercial banks have been allowed to grant some
medium-term credits but have used only a small fraction of their resources for
that purpose. Outstanding credit at the end of 1975 totalled Esc 170 billion
($5.7 billion equivalent) out of which only 7.2% was for a term exceeding one
year. As shown in Table 1 attached, this latter amount was spread between all
sectors (including trade). It was also mostly with terms not exceeding two
years. In extending medium-term loans, commercial banks are traditionally
more concerned with the securities offered than with the merits of the proj-
ects being financed. Their sources of funds are essentially sight and time
deposits (see Table 2 attached). Since December 1975 commercial banks are
limited by law to receive deposits with terms not exceeding one year.
3.   Caixa Geral de Depositos
Established in 1876 as a public savings institution, Caixa Geral
de Depositos (CGD) is by far Portugal's largest savings bank (see Tables 1
aid 2 attached). Credit outstanding at the end of 1975 totalled Esc 73.4
b'llion ($2.4 billion equivalent) out of which 74% was for more than one
year and 54% for more than seven years. In its lending, CGD has a leading
role in financing government agencies, housing, public utilities, transport,
telecommunications, agriculture and fisheries, while its lending to manu-
facturing is less than that of BFN. CGD has the reputation of operating



ANNEX 1
Appendix C
Page 2
conservatively and slowly and putting much emphasis on the adequacy of the
available security. Its project appraisal capability is limited though its
management hopes to strengthen it in the future.
4.   Other Savings Banks
Beside CGD there were at the end of 1976 19 savings banks active in
Portugal. Credit extended by these banks totalled Esc 9.8 billion ($326 mil-
lion equivalent) at the end of 1975, out of which 72% was for more than one
year and 37% for more than seven years. These banks are particularly active-
in consumer credit and housing. They are not a significant source of indus-
trial financing. Although they were not nationalized, they will be subject to
special legislation, still to be enacted. Their sources of funds are essen-
tially time deposits with terms exceeding one year.
5.   Sociedade Financiera Portuguesa
The Sociedade Financiera Portuguesa (SFP) was formed in 1969 as a
semi-public institution, apparently to carry out development banking functions
not being undertaken by BFN or other institutions. Its main activity before
the revolution revolved around raising foreign capital. Its single largest
investment out of a total loan portfolio of Esc 6.6 billion ($220 million
equivalent) was a loan in 1972 of Esc 3.1 billion ($100 million equivalent)
to the Government of Mozambique for the Cabora Bassa hydroelectric project
in that country. Following SFP's nationalization and the independence agree-
ment with Mozambique, this loan has now been converted into equity held by
SFP.
6.   Insurance Companies
All insurance companies with the exception of those with a signifi-
cant foreign equity participation were nationalized in March 1975. However,
few changes are reported in their operational policies. A new public insti-
tution, the National Institute of Insurance, has been created to coordinate
the development of insurance and reinsurance activities. Traditionally
insurance companies have not played a significant role in financing indus-
trial investment. Most of their reserves are invested in public debt bonds.
Equity participation held in their portfolio are to be transferred to the
Institute of State Participations against compensation still to be determined.
7.   Parabanking Institutions
Parabanking institutions in Portugal include a few mutual funds
holding shares in metropolitan and overseas companies, factoring institutions
and instalment sale financing companies. They were all nationalized in March
1975. None are a significant source of industrial finance.



ANNEX 1
Appendix C
Page 3
8.   Market for Shares and for Bonds
Before the revolution a growing, although still narrow and specula-
tive, market for new issues of shares and bonds provided an additional source
of long-term capital for the private sector. The market for shares and bonds
was organized by the stock exchange of Lisbon and Oporto, the latter being
much smaller and less active. Both exchanges were closed immediately after
the revolution due to the excessive speculative activity in shares that had
taken place in the previous months. Since then there has been practically no
new issue of private securities. However, the Government has continued to
borrow heavily. Given the political situation, public debt issues in 1974
and 1975 had to be almost entirely subscribed to by the banking system, but
in 1976 the Government was moderately successful in a bond issue aimed at
the general public and offering progressive interest rates of 10 to 15% com-
bined with a partial indexation to gold. Also, the Lisbon stock exchange was
reopened for bonds in January 1976 though trading has remained very limited
so far. In February 1977 the Government reopened the market for shares though
with new regulations.
Source: EMENA/IDF
April 1977



PORTUGAL
Credit Extended by Credit Institutions with Terms
of More than One Year 1/
(Balance outstanding at the end of the year in Esc  million)
Caixa Geral de
Commercial Banks               Depositos                Other Savings Banks                       BFN
Sectoral Breakdown                       1973      1974       1975      1973     1974    1975       1973      1974      1975        1973      1974        1975
1.  Government agencies                   137       181     533        3,209    4,581   6,368                                       1,535    1,656          635
1.1. Public services                    120      125      491          941    1,585   3,197                                         810       748         581
1.2. Economic coordination entities   17           17      11          102        88      227                                       81         78           54
1.3. Local authorities                             39      31        2,166    2,848   2,944                                         646       830
2.  Productive Sector                 16,823   17,775  11,836         32,578   40,085  48,116    4,666    6,398  7,044             14,255   19,949       21,510
2.1. Consum r credit                  Z,615    1,994   1,481            79        61       65    1,7.61    2,440  2,551
2.2. Import credit                      333      200      147
2.3  Export credit                       85        29      27                     12       95
2.4  Production and investment                                                                                                                   3/
credit                         13,789   15,552- 10,181         32,201   39,682  47,105    2,904    3,905  4,314             14,255   19,94Y       21,5 VY
a) Agriculture, forestry
and livestock                   324       329      333       1,031    1,158   1,315         136       168    166             333       385           85
b)  Fisberies                         68       83        68       1,063    1,129   1,272                             3
c)  Extractive industries           430       158        70         649       647      649        23        35     34            130        130         123
d)  Manufacturing induatries    5,864    7,216    4,110           5,843    8,120  10,364          97       151    158          9,407    14,236       17,332 2/
e)  Construction and public                                                                                             )
works                         1,514    1,232    1,012           389       517      440    1,415    3,027  2,409  )
f)  Electricity, gas, water                                                                                             )
and sewerage                    288       309      267       4,401    4,857   5,949
g)  Trade                         2,332    2,143    1,569                                         51        77    104  )
h)  Transports, warehouses                                                                                              )
and telecommunications          740       657      516        6,829    7,289   7,337          1         1      16  )
i)  Other activities              2,479    2,725    2,236        11,996   15,983  19,779    1,181    1,446  1,424  )           4,385      5,198      3,970
2.5  Credit to other credit                                                                                           179
institutions                        1                                                                            19298  328  851  1 
TOTAL                     16,961   12,370   12,370        35,769   44,666  54,48       4,666    6,398  7,044            15,790   21,605    22,145
1/ Excluding securities pUrLfUlio                                                                                                               1
2/Credit to manufacturing industries only was eatimated at 13,852                                                                            x
3/ Includes credit for exports of investment goois            a  1
Source: Banco de Portueal
January 1977



PORTuGAL
Deposits in Credit Institutions
(Balance in Escudos million at the end of the year)
Caixa Geral               Other Savings
Conmercial Banks             de De ositos                    Banks        a_           BFN
1973     1974       1975      1973    1974    1975       1973    1974    1975   1973    1974    1975
Sight deposits           120,052  101,412   88,366   27,545  32,726  43,126   4,124   4,121    4,177    -              -          55
Time deposits             114,164  128,034  119,037   19,894  27,584  32,080   6,039   8,122    8,993   7,645  9,065   9,151
of which
- less than 30 days        3,115    2,301    1,497                                    9        2         6    -       -        -
- 30- 90 days              2,085    2,689    2,042         48      160     160        8        7         4    -       -        _
- 91 - 180 days            1,900    1,787)  98,524          7        4)  2,819      104       43 )    825    -        -        -
- 180 days - one year  104,675  117,690)                1,409   1,959)              755      913 )            -       -         112
- over one year            2,389    3,567   16,974   18,430  25,461  29,101   5,163   9,159    8,158   7,645  9,065   9,039
Total                     234,216  229,446  207,203   47,439  60,310  75,206   0,163  12,243   13,170   7,645  9,065   9,094
EMENA IC&DFC
January 1977
MPil
n



Anne-x 2
PORTUGAL
Maximum Interest Rates
(in per cent)
December      December   July         December       December        July           March
1972          1973      1974          1974           1975          1976           1977
Date established_
Banco de Portugal
Discount ......,,,,.........                           4.0           5.0         6.5         7.5             6.5          6.5             8.0
Rediscount .2.0-4.0                                               3.0-5.0    4.0-6.5    4.5-7.5          3.0-6.5       3.0-6.5        8.0-12.0
Other credit operations                                                                                  6.5-7.5       6.5-7.5        9.5-12.0
Commercial Banks
Deposit rates                                                                                      1/             1/            1/              1/
Sight deposits ..........................             1.0            0.5      no. int.       1.0             1.0          1.0             1.0
Other deposits - notice or time deposits
of up to:                                                                                      1/
15 days        .          .............         1.0           0.5      no. int.       1.0              -            -               -
15-30 days ........, .            ....          2.25          2.5         2.5         3.5              -            -               -
30-90 days .........,,,,,.,,.....               3.25          3.5         3.5         4.5             4.5          4.5             5.0
90-180 days .         ......................    4.25          4.5         5,5         6.5             6.5          6.5             7.5
180-270 days .       ..    ...........         )              5.5         7.0         8.0
270 days-l year       .       ..... I ...      )5.25          6.0        8.0          9.0            )9.5         )9.5            )11.0
Investment and savings Banks
Deposit rates                                               2/             3/         4/           5/             5/            5|              5/
Sight deposits ................,,,.,....              3.0            3.0        3.0          4.0            4.0           4.0             4.0
Other deposits - notice or time deposits
of up to:                                                2/            3/          4/          5/
15 days               .         .3.0     3.0   3.03  4.0                                                              - -           -
15-30 days        .         ...........         2.25          2.5         2.5         3.5              -            -               -
30-90 days ........ ............... .           3.25          3.5         3.5         4.5             4.5          4.5             5.0
90-180 days ..............,.,       .         4.25          4.5         5.5         6.5             6.5          6.5             7.5
180-270 days       .        ...........                       5.5         7.0         8.0
270 days - 1 year .)5.25                                      6.0         8.0         9.0            )9.5         )9.5            )11.0
over 1 year . ....................             5.75          6.5         8.5         9.5            10.5         10.5            12.0
over 2 years . ................                 6.75          7.5         9.5       9.5-10.5    10.5-11.5    10.5-11.5          12.0-13.0
All credit institutions
Lending rates
Discount and loans up to:
3 months        .         .............                      )           )           )                7.75         8.75           10.25
3-4 months .......... .. ............                                    )6.75       )7.75
4-6 months ...........,,......                 )5.75         )5.75        7.25        8.25           )8.25        )9.25          )10.75
6-12 months ..       .. ......                  6.5           6.75        8.25        9.25            9.5         10.50           12.00
1-2 years .......,.,,,,.........                7.25          7.75        9.50       10.50           10.75        11.25           12.75
2-3 years .7.50                                                8.25  10.00   11.00
3-5 years .7.75                                               8.50       10.50       11.50          )11.75       )12.25          )13.75
5-7 years .......                               8.00          8.75       11.00       12.00           12.25        12.75           14.25
Over 7 years        .        . .....            8.25           9.00      11.50       12.50           12.75        13.25           14.75
1/ - Only for deposits by individuals.
2/ - Only for deposits by individuals up to Esc. 50,000, otherwise 1.5 per cent. For deposits by companies 1 per cent.
3/ -  Oniy for deposits by individuals up to Esc. 50,000, otherwise 1 per cent. For deposits by companies 0.5 per cent..
4/ - Only for deposits by individuals up to Eac. 50,000, otherwise 1 per cent.
5/ -Only for deposits by individuals up to Esc. 70,000, otherwise 2.0 per cent.
6/ - Savings deposits.
Source: Banco de Portugal
March 1977



PORTUGAL
Structure of Lending Rates Established by Banco de Portugal
(effective since March 1, 1977)
(in percentage)
Received by
the Credit Institution                 Maximum Rate to be charged by Credit Inatitution
from Banco de Portugal 1/ Up to 90  From 90 to From 180   From 1 year  From 2 to   From 5 to    Over
days    180 das   to lyear  to 2 years    5 years    to 7 years   7 years
1.  Ordinary operations                                    10.25    10.75        12.0        12.75         13.75        14.25        14.75
2.  Seasonal credit for
agriculture, forestry,
livestock and fisheries            3.0                  7.25     7.75         9.0         9.75           -            -            -
3.  Export credit                      3.0                  7.25      7.75        9.0         9.75         10,75        11.25        11.75
4.  Investment credit for  1st yr.)  5.0                     -         -            -         7.75          8.75         9.25         9.75
agriculture, forestry, 2nd yr.)  5.0                     -        -            -          7.75          8.75         9.25         9.75
livestock, fisheries,  3rd yr.)  4.0                              -            -           -            9.75        10.25        10.75
mining and manufac-    4th yr.)  3.0                     -                                 -           10.75        11.25        11.75
turing industries, and         )
tourism 2/     Remaining yrs. )   -                      -        -            -           -           13.75        14,25        14.75
5.  Credit for the restruc-lst yr.   5.0                     -         -           -          7.75          8.75         9.25         9.75
turing of economically)
viable enterprises in )Remain-
financial difficulty  )ing yrs.   -                      -        -            -         12.75         13.75        14.25        14.75
6.  Consumer credit
a) durable consumer
goods 3/                                            12.25   12.75       14.0        14.75         15.75        16.25        16.75
b) other consumer goods 4/        -                    10.75   11.25        12.5        13.25         14.25        14.75        15.25
1/  This amount is designed to insure that the credit institution receives an interest rate equivalent to that
for ordinary operations. This amount is received irrespective of whether or not the credit operation is
rediscounted with Banco de Portugal.
2/  The granting of the interest reduction is contingent on certain criteria of financial and economic viability.
Furthermore,the amount of the reduction is reduced if the investment cost per lob cgeated, or maintained in
conditions of  .mproved productivity,exceeds Esc 600,000 (US $15,500 equivalent at the current rate).
3/  Interest rates for durable consumer goods include a 2% surcharge to be paid to the Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund.
4/  Interest rates for other consumer goods include a 0.5% surcharge to be paid to the Exchange Risk Guarantee Fund.
Source: Banco de Portugal
April 1977.
EMENA/IDF
April 1977



ANNEX 4
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Expected Real Interest Cost of Subloans
The likely real cost of foreign exchange loans to BFN's borrowers
depends (a) on future inflation rates and (b) on any future devaluations of
the escudo and the extent to which the corresponding cost is assumed by the
borrower.
(a) The table presented below deals with the inflation aspect
and presents the real cost under optimistic and pessimistic assumptions
of inflation (assuming year 1 is 1977; if year 1 is later, the optimistic
assumption becomes more pessimistic). The loan is assumed to be totally
disbursed at the beginning of year 1 and to be repaid in five equal annual
payments of principal and interest, starting at the end of year 2. Interest
is paid during the grace period. The interest rate is assumed to remain at
14.25%. throughout the life of the loan.
Assumed Inflation
Year                           Optimistic          Pessimistic
(% change per year)
1                                 15                  22
2                                 10                  15
3                                  7.5                10
4                                  7.5                10
5                                  7.5                10
6                                  7.5                10
Real Cost (% p.a.)                          3.6                -0.5
(b)  To include the effect of possible devaluations of the
escudo, a devaluation is assumed to occur in Year 1, in addition
to the assumptions above. The borrower is assumed to bear the cost of the
equivalent of a 3% devaluation, any additional cost being assumed by the
exchange risk guarantee fund. This has the effect of increasing the principal
outstanding (before the first repayment at the end of year 2) by 3%, and leads
to an increase in actual interest payments. In addition, a premium of 0.75%
p.a. for the partial risk coverage is assumed to be paid over the life of
the loan. Using the pessimistic inflation assumption, the real cost of the
loan to the borrower under these conditions would be 1.1% p.a..
Source: EMENA/IDF
April 1977



BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Board of Management and Commission of Control
(as of September 30, 1976)
Position                                Incumbent                     Appointed by            Field
I. Board of Management
President             Dr. Joao Mauricio Fernandes Salgueiro             Government          Economics
Member                Dr. Noel Carlos de Melo Loureiro                  Government          Finance
Member                Dr. Abel Machado de Oliveira                      Government          Finance
Member                Dr. Almeida Serra                                 Government          Economics
Member                Eng. Antonio da Silva Teixeira                    Government          Mining Engineering
II. Commission of Control
Chairman              Dr. Artur Luis Alves Conde                        Government          Economist
Deputy Chairman       Dr. Gabriel Jose dos Santos Fernandes             Government          Auditor
Member                            (vacant)                              Workers' Commi-
ssion
Source: Banco de Fomento Nacional
November 1976



BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Responsibilities of Board of Managment
(September 30,1976)
DR.JOAO SALGUElIRO  l
|   PRESIDENT        l
DR. IIOI:L LOUREIRO    Dl  ACAD DE OLIVEIRA                                        D IR.Al MEIDA SEARA 71                  ENSIV TEIXEIRA       l
-   DIRECT INVESTMENT               _- BRANCH OFFICE                               ECONOMIC STUDIES                        ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
CREDIT                                 COORDINATION
-CREDIT FOR PRODUCTION                 -CREDIT rOR EXPORT                          SPECIAL OPERATIONS                     ?EFiSONNEL MATTERS
AND SAtE IN PORTUGAL                   SALES
LEGAL MATTERS                           FINANCIAL MATTERS                   -RELATIONS WITH THE                         ORGANIZATION AND
(INCLUDING FOREIGN                     BANK OF PORTUGAL                         DATA PROCESSING
LINES OF CREDIT)                       AND IAPMEI                               SERVICES
F   DISBURSEMENT AND                                                            - MATTERS CONCERNING                    -IB. F. N.'s) REORGANIZATION
FOLLOW-UP OF OPERATION                                                         THE FORMER OVERSEAS
TERRITORIES
-RELATIONS WITH THE
WORKERS COMMISSION
AND UNIONS
World Bank -16721
C'



BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL.
ORGANIZATION CHART
(SEPTEMBER 30, 1976)                                                                                                                       ANNEX  7
D,.    C--  Di-,                                                   E-             A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-L3 SaDiOaall&3l n On
SOa6ICrnSiOera.oo  O. nnld Urio -0,acrr                        inUlS,ka                              r.Va.IaP-to-                                   *,raSa Sans                                  -3 SIO.0
P-U  S-19  P.6    6- 1                   P-3       S..                            P-1      5-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S                 SD                               90      .1p',                                     -2
P.2    S.u                             P-~~~~~92     SzSS           P.1 I    2
Lg,ealtra ari  Crarriair  Preirl Wek,ee        Cadur orPrOdoe,oe                                                                                                                   rmtreal                     Cea.eeedee. ~e1 F,ler       PlaonirgdeC  L, I' -
F-d~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hS,aeartadLhmrolaCiariCliorSeoiStnn                                                                                                                                                      iaaOr
0--                                                                                                                      A--~~~~~~~~~~~~~oiu,g a.reia  rS d
fi-i ~~~~~~~~~~iarogaeiDrtDror,olr nAAai.
T-o-1~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dt lordr
Leorrat   24
LigrarSTaiflltor   2
S-, SI.,, Is,alS                    522
Wo ..,ae -6720



ANNEX 8
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
summary of Operations 1971-76
(amounts in million escudos)
Includes Overseas Territories                            Portugal Only
1971      1972       1973       1974                 1974       1975      1976
Applications
Loans-      number         572       635        750      1,283                1,-062       Si-811     05
amount       6,912     9,636    15,773    18,730                 16,261    23,383   19,699
Equity:    number            4  1/      7         10          4                   3          1         7
amount          49         79       255         90                   78         15       368
Bonds:     number            5  1/      3          4          -                   -          -        -
amount          58         40         36          -                   -          -        -
Guarantees:number            7         18         25         33                  21         18        29
amount         193     1,098      1,770      1,274                  474      1,446     1,221
Totals:    number          588        663        789     1,320                1,086        830       836
amount       7,212    10,853    17,834    20,094                 16,813    24,844   21,288
Approvals
Loans:     number          282        337        410       517                  436        466       401
amount      5,147      7,009    10,705    10,990                 10,072    10,761   18,800
Equity:    number            4  1/      7         10         4                    3          1         7
amount          49         79       255         90                   78         15       368
Bonds:     number            5 1/       3          4          -                   -          -        -
amount          58         40         36         -                    -          -        _
Guarantees:number            7         18         27        28                   16         14        22
amount          98     1,129      1,813      1,523                  803        376       947
Totals:    number          298        365       451        549                  455        481       430
amount      5,352      8,257    12,809    12,603                 10,953    11,152    20,115
Disbursements
Loans:      amount       3,013     4,566      4,462      7,359                5,950     7,101      7,950
Equity:    amount          115         72       192         90                   78         10       368
Bonds:     amount           25         53        32          -                    -          -
Totals:    amount        3,153     4,691      4,686      7,449                6,028     7,111      8,318
1/ division between equity and bonds approximate
Source: Banco de Fomento Nacional
March 1977



ASNEK 9
BANC0 DE PiMENTO 01ACI0NAL
Analysis of Ap.Orovod Loon. 1971-76
1 9 71                        1 9 72                       1897 3                       1897 4                        1 9 75                        1 97 6
soani                No.      Amanat      Z       No.      haunt       t       No.      Amount       t      No.      Amount        1       Me.      Amount       I        oe.      flu.entt 7N..,A-  %  N.. A-t  m
tran.t Cr.440
tadoatrisl Cr-dit:
Foed,toff and b--Sragn                  14        149.6    3.7       26        133.5    2.9       29        329.4    4.2       29        338.6       3.4     30        439.6       4.1      36         141.0    3.8
T-itll..,  pparal an  f_otm_            31        197.2    4.8       28        112.8    2.4       21        155.2    2.0       42        253.4      2.5      28         1862       1.7       13         84.7    0.5
Tibr.,  cork and fe-nitoro              18         60.8    1.3       26         59.7    1.3       25        156.3    2.0       24        114.0       1.1     34         150.6      1.4       22        107.0    0.6
Po1p. papor ad pntinoin                 13        137.6    3.4        6         28.2    0.6       10         27.3    0.3       20        107.4      1.1      14.       284.7       2.6        6         19.9    3.1
Rubber, ohaicala ad patrolou             0        587.1   1.4.4       3        105.0    2.2        7         33.0    0.4       11      1,427.9    14.2        8          30.5      0.7      14        619.6    3.3
Nn--etaIllt  ni-rl produts              26        300.2    7.3       17        139.5    3.0       31        181.3    2.3       54        408.4      4.1      39        328.5       3.0      29         173.6    0.9
M.ocblnoy                               23        124.1    3.8       23        236.1    5.0       35        233.6    3.2       44        394.3      3.9      40        457.0       4.3       28        301.3    1.6
Trans.port eqipment                      6         88.3    2.2        8        759.5   16.3        8        126.7    1.5        9         83.0      0.8      11          18.2      0.2        8        159.8    0.9
others                                  10L        44.6    1.1       15         47.4     1.0      13         51.8    0.7       It         63. 7     0.8      12         54. 8     5.5        7          25.3    0.1
S.ehtenl.:Mo..font. indo-tris  149          1,697.3   41.6    152        1,621.7   34.7    179        1,308.6   16.6    228         3,190.7    31.7    216        1,970.9    18.3       163      1,652.2    8.7
ting nod qearrYitt                       6         18.3    0.4        3          5.0    0.1        8         28.5    0.4        8         12.3      0.1       3           3.6      *2                    2.8      *
Fishing                                          -                      1         60.0    1.3        1          5.0    0.1       25         4.        0.4       3         19.5      0.2        2          14.5    01-
Betilding                                  1         25.0    0.6        3          5.9    01         5         12.      0.        1      1,6326      1.2       1          58.6       5.2       2         11.5    0.1
Elootnin p-o                               3       585.0   14.3        2        520.0   11.2         1       600.0    7.6         2        550.0      5.5       9        563.0      5.2        4      1i62.4    8.3
Snbtotels-Oodnsti.tal Crdit        159      2.323,0   56.9    161        2,212.6   47.4    194        1.955.0   24.9    272        3,430.4    535.9    242        3,115.6    20.9      T 3T      5,227.4   17.2
ietnk-fenn                              5         239.6    0.9      14         D6.5    0.1       22    9.8    0.4             31         96.4      0.9      54        160.5       1.6      74        171.3    0.9
Tronporn ond oom nic-ti-                    2        200.0    4.9       10        707.4   15.2       13        645.       a.2     18      1,2866.6    12.6       15        986.3      9.2        5        358.4    1.9
Other serums                                2          8.      1.2       4         70.4    1.5        3        113.4    1.5        6          51.1     0.5        3         29.0      0.3        1          0.5   __
Seb.tenls: Diren  Crodin           168      2,611.4   63.9    179        2,996.9   64.2    232        2,744.0   35.0    327        6,834.5    67.9    314         4,299.4    40.0    2753        3,750.6   20.0
Indi-ot Cr-dfo 1/
M...nfatertng indeot,,ios                  47        723.3   17.7       48      1,540.5   33.8       50      4,525.9   57.6       97      2,832.8    28.3    118         5,436.9    50.5       122    14,251.0   75.8
BetIding                                    2          4.5    0.1        4        103,9    2.2        7        580.0    7,4       11        382,1       3.8      27        951.0      0.8       02        666.8    3.3
Olnntnirpo.esr              1         48.5    ~~~~       ~     ~     ~ ~~~                                                   ~~    ~~~~~1.  .- -   - - 1  2.8  * 3  4.6  *      --
Trans. port and    aiain                    7        697.6   17.1              -          -             -       --                              -        -        --                   -
Onh-r sertrn---                                                          9    ~ 30.4    0.6           1          0.9      *        --                    -        4         69.5      0.6        9        123.6    0.7
Sehntatls: Indiront Credit          57      1439       36.1      61    17674.8&  35.8         58      5.106,0   65.0    109        3.237,7      32.1    152       6,6.        60.0      148    15,041.6   60.0O
TOTALS                              M5      4,083.3 ~1O0         M       46L    108,L 0    --         785       L%0        iL     I2.21        10040    466    12 761 4   180.0          9     11W        i
81 nO en  1,0030                             48          32.6    0.8      57          32.1    0.7      68          43.3    0.6       80         46.8      0.5      81         49.4      0.5      1 04        40.2    0.3
1,000,001  to soc 5.D000.03      92        245.0    6.0       94        250.9    5.4    115          3294    6.2    181           538.7       5.3    182         583.7      4.7     149         389.1    2.1
nen5,8818   toast 140.080,008             20       240.8    5.9       31        2205.8    4.8      41        32 2.0    4.1      55        4089.9     4.1      63        4097.6     4.6       47        349.5    1.9
en10.00000    noes 5,000,000             20        330.0    8.1       27        498.0   10.4       27        500.7    6.6       66      1,125.4    11.2       57      1,116.4    10.4        33        563.3    3.0
out 25,008,001'O)  to  e  50,808.0000      20        7209.7   17.9       9        342 .6    7.3      13        4066.6    5.9      21        742,2      7.4      35      1.284.4    11.9        24        985.4    5.2
sc50.808, 00  1 t   0  180.08808          7        625.9   15,3       11        788.2   16.9       13      1,075.6   13.7       19      1,395.1    13.8       24      1,882.9    17.5        14      1,128.7    6.0
10.800,001 to san 250,000,000           6     1.031,5   25.2        8      1,544.1   33.1        8      1,436.4   18.3       10      1,896.5    18.8        22      3,571.2    53.2      1
eon 250,88.8   toot1000,000,800    2                 850.8   20.8        3      1,000.0   21.4        3      1,315.8   16.7        5      2,417.6    24.0         4     1,855.6    17.02       28    15,324.0   81.5
becen1.000.000,00                       M                                                         2     t2&! 501               1       58          4.                     -              )
TOTALS                             LZ ,    4-M.5-   129U    ZiO          L LZ'  1O08.0    290           EM 24    OL 20    43 6    10.07241  ISii.        L6t    ILZgI4    108~ 0   40          18400a2  100.0
L.OCATION8 (Branh offito)
A-iro                                      19         80.5      2.8    13         118.6    2,5       28        2117,8    2.18    30         194. 3      1.9      31        151.2       1.2    22          90.5    0.5
Deja                                        1          1.7       e       2          1.4               5         10.7    0.1        6         31.7      0.3        7          7.8       0.1      2          3.2      -
Brag.                                      17         68.2      1.7      9         38,9    0.8       16         62.5    0.8       21        126.0       0.2      12         65.9       0.6     18        1033 .6    0.7
1          1.5              3          4.5    0.1        2           2.9      2/      -                     --       -                      .       2          3.5
C.sl  Brnc                                  6         40.9      1.8      6         15.3    0.3        4          6,2    0.1        6          51.8     0.3        3          5.2        n      17         5.7    0.3
C.  Ibao                                   1          68.       1.7      7         13.8    0.5        3         42.0    0.5       16        109.9       1.1     10          55.        0.5      9         19.      0.1
trors                            0 ~ ~~~~~~~~~               ~~         ~~~~ 28.3  0,7  4  0.9  *  3  10.0    0.1       9         27.9      0.3       9         67.6        0.6    11          2 3 .9    0.1
fore                                        4          6.8      0.2    14         215.9    4,6       11         80.4    1.0       10          79.1     0.8       19         84.4       0.8    12          70.4    0.4
Corda                                       2         14.3      0.3      3         13.3    0.3        1         20.0    8.5        3         18.5      0.2       4          12.4       0.1      5         14.0    0.1
ttLa                                       11         493       1.2    13          26.      0.6      24        1405.0    1.8      30        186.5       1.9     38         195.1       1.8    21          78.2    0.4
Lisb!a                                     54      1,547.~7    37.8    56       1,8969.6   40.7      73      2.221,8   28.5    110        4,727.4    46.9    140        6,112.0       56.8    126      8,865.7   47.2
Pocrologre                  -           -        -       -          ~ ~~ ~ ~               ~    ~~~~ ~~~~        ~    ~~~~-  -  2  7.5    0.1  6  181.8  1.8  14  58.1  0.5     1          1M5      *
Por                                        36      1,452.0    35.5    47          914.6   19.6       44      1,018.5   13.0       72        707.4      7.0      68        633.4        7 .7    48      1,956.5   10.4
Sonrsre                                    14        140.8      3.4    12          47 .0    1.0      17         39.1    0.5       35        2445       2.4      18          94.1       0.9     30        154.9    0.7
Set'bal                                    23        420.4    10.3    30        1,055.0   22.6       33      2,070,3   26.4       48      3,169.0    31.5       57      2,0D48.7      19.0    42       5,1 44.8   27.4
Vteno del2sll                               4         89.6      2.2      1        244.3    5.2        6      1,441.1   18.4        8         68.2      0.7        7        905.6       8.4      3      2,104.4   1.2
Vile Real.                                        -         -            8         12.1    0.3        7         18.0    0.2        4         23.4      0.2        7         12.6       0.1      6         23.4    0.1
Olse                                        5          8.2      0.2      3          2.7    0.1       5I2       109.5 2/ 1.4        4         35.66     0.4        7         134        8.1    11          55.7    0,3
Sehcl-ls                              223      4,819.3    98.4   237        4,624.7   99.0    287 -/  7,773.5   99.0    418            9,963.0    901.9    451    10.703.2        99.5   394    19,008.0   99.9
Al :11                         ~     ~~ ~~~1 33.01   0.8:                                            65.0    0.28    15           8.         .         6         26.6       0.2      1          0.7
Oladerta                         0 ~ ~~~~~~~~~               ~     ~ ~~~ 33.0  0.  3 48  1. 2        1.5      82        2           73       .1        9         31.6       0.3      6          1.5      .
TOTALS                                  72          8        0.       4        .7,       0,        2.,     7850.8  100.0    436 1/ io,ogg-  100 0    466    'L761 4                1004   .1 2404 .
DURATION OP 1,O8S
Mor   hnI no 3  er                           20        116.7       2,8     5         83.2    1.8         9        173.7    2.2      37      1,169.7    11.6        27        591.6       5.5    36         878,4    4.7
Moetha  37oSyos01                                    322.9      7,9    82        423.       9.1      99       487,6    6,2    126           443.1      6.4    174       1,769.2      16.4   129          781.5    4.1
Morn then 0t  7 years                       131      5,315,4     81.2   147       3,205,2   68.6    159        2,679,4   36.1    257        5,191,1    51.5    245         5,2908.5     49.2   221    14,319.2   54.9
More than7 yoar                               3        330.3      8,1      6        837,7   20.5       23      4,510.1   57.5       16      3 268.3    32,5        20      3,110.1      28.0    15       6,820,9   34.3
TOTALS                                 225    4LO85.3   102L,    424         44671.7  12204    Z290        ZJf&A   124    426          120l72    3 1L2    L62        1l7 4        000 jI            18 80022 ~ 1200.3
0Iles  char 0.007.
17 listed by  nitial.  hen.t. sr
erln,for Oat 20 nIlIen   _nolooorcl  occoceed 1ace   ilecded in detil.
Suc:Banto dr Fomenr  Notional
March1977



BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIOIIAL
Equity Portfolio as of December 31,1975
Number of      Par Value      Average Cost      Balance Sheet
Name of Company                     Activity                    9S4B res Held     lnAx Jh         Per Share            Value
(escudos       (escudos)      (million escudos)
Operating in Portugal
Amoniaco Portugues                             Ammonia production              40,000         1,000.0         1,070.4             42.8
Companhia de Ferro Nacional (Cofena)          Metal ore extraction              6,440         1,000.0         1,000.0              6.4
Companhia de Transportes Maritimos             Maritime transport             167,421           585.1  1/       993.2            166.3
Companhia Industrial de Portugual
e Colonias                                   Noodle products                    286           500.0         1,326.6              0.4
Companhia Portuguesa de Celulose              Wood pulp and paper              36,663         1,000.0         1,440.5             52.8
Companhia Portuguesa Fornos Electricos         Non-ferrous metal                2,118           100.0           128.8              0.3
Companhia de Seguro  de Creditos               Insurance                        1,221         1,000.0         1,000.0              1.2
Companhia de Seguros Tranquilidade             Insurance                        1,520           500.0         1,214.3              1.8
Electricidade de Portugal (EDP)                Electricity                    337,344           996.8  1/    1,120.6             378.0
Estaleiros Navais de Setubal (Setenave)        Ship building                   30,000         1,000.0         1,000.0             30.0
Maquinas de Escrever (Messa)                   Typewriter manufacturing       175,000           100.0           100.0              17.5
Minas de Vila Cova                             Coal mining                      18,000        1,000.0         1,000.0              18.0
Pirites Alentejanas                            Metal ore extraction                100        1,000.0         1,000.0               0.1
Sociedade Financeira Portuguesa                Banking                        199,900         1,000.0         1,000.0            199.9
Sorefame                                       Transport equipment             76,034         1,000.0         1,391.7            105.8
Subtotal - Portugal                                                                                                 1,021,3
Operating in Angola
Companhia de Cabinda                           Timber industry                 78,140           100.0             71.0              5.6
Companhia Celulose do Ultramar Portugues       Woodpulp, paper & cardboard    18,597          1,000.0         1,000.0              18.6
Socidade Algodoeira de Fomento Colonial        Cotton and textile industry    10,000          1,000.0         1,000.0             10.0
Sorefamse de Angola                            Transport equipment                 200        1,000.0         1,250.0              0.3
Subtotal - Angola                                                                                                       34.5
Operating in Mozambique
Sociedade  Lldro-Electrica do Revue            Electricity                     25,000         1,000.0           844.0              21.1
Grand Total                                                                                                          1,076.9
1/ Average after mergers
Source: Banco de Fomento Nacional
November 1976



BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Distribution of Approved Direct Credit Loans by Size of Project
(amounts in thousand escudos)
Size of project                                   1975                                         1976
Number of   Total        Direct credit loans Number of   Total.          Direct credit loans
projects    projects      amount               p projects    projects        amount         %
cost                                            cost
0 -      1,000          32         19,162        13,449       0.3         43        26,403          17,127        0.5
1,001 -      5,000         113        309,112       183,996       4.3        111       311,439         174,760        4.7
5,001 -     10,000          53        403,636       220,600       5.1         43       310,225         166,685        4.4
10,001 -     25,000          45        691,429       274,450       6.4         28       459,776         233,650        6.2
25,001 -     50,000          34      1,070,493       589,500      13.7          9       307,443         187,050        5.0
50,001 -    100,000          15      1,091,453       540,000      12.6          5       422,014         193,300        5.1
100,001 -    250,000          14      2,293,992    1,182,030       27.5          8     1,363,248         650,000       17.3
250,001 -    500,000           4      1,391,300       685,000      15.9          4     1,566,000       1,056,000       28.1
500,001 - 1,000,000            -           -             -            -          2     1,500,400      1,080,000        28.7
1,000,001 - 1,500,000            2      2,320,000       300,000       7.0          -           -              -            -
over 1,500,000                   2      3,390,944       310,365       7.2          -                  -       _
H
Total                          314     12,981,521    4,299,390       100          253    6,266,948       3,758,572      100.0
==m=    =w==========   =_S_nt                      --=__   =a====m=         ___ 
Source: Banco de Fomento Nacional
March 1977



BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Sources of Funds 1971-76
(in Z ot DIsbursements)
Includes Overseas Territories                            Portugal Only
1971        1972         1973         1974            1974         1975      1976
Disbursements                                100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0          100.0         100.0      100.0
Repayments                                    22.9         22.4         27.7         15.9             5.6         18.6       19.5
Portuguese State (net)                         8.2         27.9          8.6          5.8             7.1         (1.5)      (3.3)
Time deposits (net)                           49.4         41.1         36.3         22.7            23.5          1.2       22.0
Banco de Portugal (net)                        4.8          0.6          4.6         47.1            58.2         81.2       14.7
Other credit institutions (net)               11.0          1.7         (4.3)         3.2            0.3           0.6       20.1
Other borrowings (net)                        (2.0)        (1.3)         9.3          4.5             5.9         (2.1)      (0.9)
Share capital                                   -          14.5          4.3           -               -            -        12.0
Gross self-financing                           4.0          2.3          4.1          1.7             3.2          6.0       11.9
.Other  1/                                      1.7         (9.2)        (9.4)        (0.9)          (3.8)         (4.0)       4.0
Total                                 100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0          100.0        100.0       100.0
Memo:
Disbursements (escudos millions)         3,153.0      4,691.2       4,686.1      7,448.8       6,028.2       7,111.3  8,317.9
Disbursements ($ millions ) 2/             105.1        156.4         156.2        248.3         200.9          237.0     277.3
1/ mainly changes in working capital
2/  US$1.00 = Esc 30
K
EKENAJ IDF
March 1977



ANNEX 13
Page 1
BANCO DE FONENTO NACIONAL
A. Resource Position as of December 31, 1976
(million escudos)
Share capital                    2,500.0
Free reserves                      839.9
Undistributed profits              182.0                3,521.9
Time deposits                                          10,976.2
Bonds                                                     426.5
Government loans                                        2,560.7
Local currency loans                                   11,699.3
Foreign currency loans                                  2,916.3
Total resources                                32,100.9
Outstanding loans               29,489.4
Security portfolio              1,506.4                30,995.8
Available for disbursement                      1,105.1
Undisbursed commitments                                 3,628.5
Available for commitment                       (2,523.4)
Source: Banco de Fomento Nacional
April 1977



ANNEX 13
Page 2
B. Notes to Resources
1. Share capital. The paid-in share capital was increased by Esc 1,000 million
to Esc 2,500 million during 1976.
2. Free reserves. These include the Legal Reserve Fund (the Statutes provide
that a minimum of 10% of annual net profits be appropriated to this reserve),
the Special Reserve Fund (a minimum of 5% of annual net profits) and Other
Reserve Funds. The Guarantee Reserve Fund is not included as it is established
by the Statutes to cover doubtful debts; funds in this reserve are invested in
Government bonds or other securities and shown as a separate asset.
3. Time deposits. Over 95% of the time deposits are one year one day deposits
(the minimum initial term) which currently yield 12%  p.a.   BFN's experience
is that these remain on deposit an average of three years.  Savings deposits,
which BFN has been allowed to accept since 1973, have a minimum term of three
years.  The interest yield is progressive, being  12% for the first year,
rising 1/4 of 1% each year after that to a maximum of 13%  for the fifth year.
The amounts involved so far are relatively insignificant.  In 1975 BFN was
allowed to accept six months to one year deposits; these currently yield 11%
p.a.
4. Bonds. These consist of local currency bonds and of bonds issued
abroad in 1963 in units of account. All of the proceeds from this foreign
issue was lent to the Electricidade de Portugal which bears the foreign
exchange risk.
5. Government loans. These consist of the following items;
- Loans and provisions - consisting of Marshall Plan
loans made to BFN's predecessor, other long-term
loans and short-term loans from the Ministry of
Finance which are continually rolled over.             Esc 1,156.3 million
- Applications of National Development Promissory
Notes - lent for specific projects contained in
earlier Development Plans (e.g. railways).                   725.0
- Special account - consisting of principal
repayments and interest payments received on
loans made from Marshall Plan donations.
Being donations, these funds carry no charge and
are not to be repaid. The original loans, and
the offsetting liability, are labelled Counter-
part Funds.                                                  482.3



ANNEX 13
Page 3
- Surplus of the participation in the Bank's
capital - being the excess of the Government's
equity holding in BFN's predecessor over the
Government's equity holding in BFN; this is
repayable to the Government, though without a
specified amortization schedule, and hence is
treated as a loan.                                        197.1
Total                      Esc 2,560.7 million
Not included are Counterpart Funds and Committed Financing as these are
represented by specific investments (which are not included under Outstanding
Loans).
6. Local currency loans. These consist of loans from the following local
institutions:
Banco de Portugal                                 Esc 10,904.3 million
Caixa Geral de Depositos                                  595.0
Fundacao Gulbenkian                                       200.0
Total                     Esc 11,699.3 million
7. Foreign currency loans: These consist of the following lines of credit:
- Midland Bank - L3.0 million to finance purchase
of British goods and services; contracted in
December 1974; interest rate is 2-2.5% above the
London interbank offering rate depending upon the
circumstances; sub-borrower bears foreign exchange
risk and pays interest at 2-2.5% above what BFN
pays; repayment of subloans over 4 or 5 years,
depending on size.                                    Esc 156.9 million
- Credit Commercial de France - FF 85 million to
finance purchase of French goods and services;
contracted in April 1975; interest rate is the
legal rate in France for export financing
(currently 7.2% for loans of 2-5 years and 7.5%
for loans over 5 years); sub-borrower bears foreign
exchange risk and pays interest at 1% above what
BFN pays; repayment terms are dependent on size of
subloans and vary from 18 months to 5 years.              538.9



ANNEX 13
Page 4
- Midland Bank - up to t2.8 million to finance
purchase of British goods and services by a
specific Portuguese firm (a polyester plant);
contracted in May 1975; interest rate fixed at
7%; subborrower bears foreign exchange risk
and pays interest at 8.5%; repayment over 5
years.                                                   Esc 146.4 million
- European Investment Bank - U.A. 15 million
(about $18 million equivalent); procurement
untied but European suppliers to be consulted;
contracted in April 1976; guaranteed by the
Government; for small and medium size projects
(total cost of fixed assets up to U.A. 8 million)
maximum size of subloans limited to U.A. 1.6
million; interest rate of 9.5% of which EEC
rebates 3%; BFN pays 3% to government as fee
for its bearing foreign exchange risk; sub-
borrowers pay normal interest rate; repayment
by BFN over 11 years including 4 years grace.               500.0
- Kredietbank of Luxembourg - 50 million Furodollars;
$30 million earmarked for the Electricidade de
Portugal on which BEN receives 0.1% p.a. (EdP
also paid part of the cost of arranging the loan),
remaining $20 million available for BFN's normal
lending activity at interest rates of 1-1.5% above
what BFN pays; interest rate at 1-7/8% above the
London interbank offering rate for the currency
drawn; subborrowers bear foreign exchange risk;
repayment over 5 years.                                   1,574.1
Esc 2,916.3 million
8.       In addition to the above lines of credit, BFN manages an
Industrial Development Fund made available to Portugal by the six members
of the European Free Trade Association plus Finland. The Fund will total
SDR 84,604,516 (about $100 million or Esc 3,000 million equivalent), to be
made available in five equal annual installments. Repayment will be in
15 equal annual installments after a ten-year grace period. The fund will
finance projects that have been appraised by BFN in its normal fashion. The
emphasis will be on small and medium size projects. A "substantial part"(agreed
as 50%) of the resources of the Fund will be used for procurement within the EFTA
area, including Portugal. The Fund will bear no interest during the first five
years and 3% thereafter. Loans made from the Fund will bear the normal rate of
interest changed by BFN. The Government will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Up to 10% of the Fund can be used for loans on more favorable terms (relating to,
e.g., security, amortization, rate of interest) for projects of particular impor-
tance or to finance project studies, technical assistance or research. There is a
free limit of SDR 1.2 million for normal loans and SDR 200,000 for soft loans and
an aggregate free limit of one-half of the assets in the fund in any year; loans
above the free limit must be approved by the Steering Committee composed of one
member from each contributing state. The accounts of the Fund will be kept
separate from BFN's regular accounts.



BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Geographical and Sectoral Breakdown of Portfolio _/
(as of December 31, 1975)
(amounts in million escudos)
Total                  PortuRal                      A f r i c a n  C o u n t r i e s
Sub-total           Angola         Mozambique         Others
No.        Amount        No.       Amount    No.       Amount   No.    Amount   No.    Amount   No.    Amount
LOANS
Industrial credit:
Manufacturing industries           1,034       13,852.5      1,032    13,599.4    2         253.1     2      253.1      -         -      -
Mining and quarrying                  25          136.9         24       134.2    1           2.7     1        2.7      -        -       -         -
Fishing                                5           20.5          4        15.7    1           4.8     -         -       -        -       1        4.8
Bu:lding                              16          112.5         16       112.5    -            -      -         -       -        -       -         -
Electric power                        55        3,623.1         51     3,375.5    4        247.6      1      232.1     3       15.5      -        _
Subtotals: Industrial Credit 1,135        17,745.5      1,127    17,237.3    8         508.2      4     487.9      3       15.5      1       4.8
Livestock-farming                         93          191.1         91        186.6    2          4.5      1       0.4      -         -      1        4.1
Transport and communications             148        3,603.7        146     3,390.7    2         213.0     1      213.0      -         -      1         *
Other services                            17          197.5         14        176.0    3         21.5      -        -       1         *      2       21.5
Local authorities                          6           41.6          -           -     6         41.6      -        -       1        7.6     5       34.0
State                                     18        1,471.5          9       497.9    9         973.6     1       41.1      6     898.2      2       34.3
Total: Loans                   1,417      23,250.9      1,387    21,488.5   30       1,762.4      7      742.4    11      921.3    12       98.7
EQUITY INVESTNENTS
Manufacturing  industries                 13          248.4          9        219.6    4         28.8      4      28.8      -         -      -         -
Mining and quarrying                       3           24.5          3         24.5    -           -       -        -       -         -      -         -
Electric power                             6          399.1          4       378.0    2          21.1     -         -       2      21.1      -         -
Livestock-farming                          1            5.6          -           -     1          5.6      1       5.6      -         -      -         -
Transport and communications               3          166.3          3        166.3    -           -      -         -       -         -      -         -
other services                             4          233.0          4        233.0    -           -       -        -      _          -      -        _
Total: Equity Investnents         30       1,076.9         23      1,021.4    7         55.5      5       34.4     2       21.1      -      =
BONDS
Manufacturing industries                   5            7.2          5          7.2    -           -       -        -       -         -      -         -
Electric power                            13          116.2         10         81.8    3         34.4     -         -       3      34.4      -         -
Local authorities                          1            1.4          1          1.4    -           -       -        -      _          -      -         -
Total: Bonds                      19          124.8        16         90.4    3         34.4      -         -      3       34.4      -         -
=====   =_====s    _=eS  ===_^w__ __  ======  a=     ===_=     ==      ==n==      =      *=s
GRAND TOTAL                                1,466       24,452.6      1,426    22,600.3   40       1,852.3    12      776.8    16       976.8    12       98.7
z
*  Esc 50,000 or less                                                                                                                                          x
1/ excludes investments at risk of Government and Guarantee Fund.
Source: Banco de Fomento Nacional
January 1977



ANNEX 15
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
A.Arrears on Loan Portfolio as of June 30, 1976                         Page 1
(amounts in thousand escudos)
Amouat-qn^r>:
No. of   Outstanding  % of total   Principal            Interest      Total        X of total
Loans      principal   portfolio                                                    arrears
Loans affected by
arrears
A. Length of arrears
Up to 3 months             129       2,155,784        8.2          108,037         58,866        16i,903         7.9
-from 3 to six months       72       1,033,909        3.9           72,523          31,157       103,680         4.9
-from 6 to 12 months        132       2,489,886       9.5           262,030        222,590       48'+,620        22.0
-from 12 to 24 months       206       2,311,236       8.8           450,345        325,164        773,509        36.7
-over 24 months              51         838,973        3.2          368.384        212,664        581,048        27.5
total                            68,829,788                  1,261,319         850,461    2,111,760        -10.0
B. Sectors
.public enterprises or
state institutions          16       1,228,456       4.7            48,610         10,257         53,867         2.8
.nationalized enter-
prises                      20       1,677,679        6.4          121,330        151,725        273,055        12.9
-enterprises with state
-majority participation    10           518,273       2.0            99,726         32,763        132,489         6.3
-enterprises with state
minority participation    24           233,483        0.9          160,000         48,176        203,176         9.9
-enterprises with state
intervention                28         710,661       2.7           137,152        129,245        266,397        12.6
public sector sub-total   98         4,368,552      1X-            566-,81        372,166        938,984        44.5
private enterprises
with arrears
-of less than Esc.
5 million                 404       1,523,001       5.8           162,807        133,744        296,551        14.0
-Esc 5 to 10 million        44         363,337        1.4           63,114          43,327       106,441         5.0
-over Esc 10 million        24       1,275,416        4.7          196,348        117,033        313,381        14.8
private sector sub-
total                     472       3,11,754       11.8           422,269        294,104       716,373         33.9
entities of former
overseas territories        20       1,349,482        5.1          272,232        184,171        456,403        21.6
Total                   590       8,829,788      33.6        1,261,319         850,441    2,111.760         100.-
Total of loan Portfolio  1,560        26,261,000    100.0
Source: EMENA/IDF
Anril   1977



ANNEX 15
Page 2
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONALP
B. Evolution of Arrears on Loan Portfolio
(Amounts in escudo thousands)
Position as of June 30, 1976   Position as of September 30, 1976    Position as of December 30,1976
% of total                  % change         % of                   % change          % of
arrears                    over previous   total                   over previous   total
quarter          arrears                quarter         arrears
Al. Public and nationalized
enterprises
- Number of loans affected
by arrears                             36                             41     +13.9                            21      -48.4
- Principal in arrears             169,940                         233,318      *37.3                      157,526      -32.5
- Interest in arrears              161,982                         308,527      +90.5                      238,977      --22.5
- Total in arrears                 331,922           15.7          541,845      +63.2           21.3       396,503      -26.8           14.7
A2. Enterprises with state
majority participation
- Number of loans affected
by arrears                             10                             14      *40.0                           14         -
- Principal in arrears              99,726                         134,316      +34.7                      199,823      t48.8
- Interest in arrears               32,763                          45,002      +37.4                       66,526      +47.8
- Total in arrears                 132,489            6.3          179,318      +35.3            7.0       266,349      t48.5           9.8
A3. Enterprises wish state
minority participation
- Number of loans affected
by arrears                             24                             47    +135.0                            50       t6.4
- Principal in arrears             160,000                         202,556     + 26.6                      241,531      4-19.2
- Interest in arrears               48,176                         100,242    4108.0                       123,909      i23.6
- Total in arrears                 208,176           9.9           302,798     t45.5            11.9       365,443      +20.7          13.5
A4. Enterprises with state
intervention
- Number of loans affected
by arrears                           28                               22    -21.4                             22        -
- Principal in arrears            137,152                          119,366    -13.0                        131,442    +10.1
- Interest in arrears             129,245                           79,530    --38.5                        92,121    +15.8
- Total in arrears                266,397         12.6             198,896    -25.3            7.8         223,563    +12.4             8.3
A .  Sub-total:  Public Sector
- Number of loans affected
by arrears                           98                              124    +26.5                            107    -13.7
- Principal in arrears            566,818                          689,556    +21.7                        730,325     +5.9
- Interest in arrears             372,166                          533,301    t43.4                        521,533     -2.2
- Total in arrears                938,984         44.5           1,222,857    +30.2           48.0       1,251,858     +2.4            46.2
B.   Entities in former overseas
territories (including Macau)
- Number of loans affected
by arrears                            20                              23    +15.0                             24     +4.3
- Principal in arrears            272,232                          300,639    +10.4                        328,495     +9.3
- Interest in arrears             184,171                          238,341    *29.4                        249,553     +4.7
- Total in arrears                456,403         21.6            538,980    +18.1            21.2         578,048     +7.2            21.4
C.   Private enterprises
- Number of loans affected
by arrears                          472                              478     +1.3                            472     -1.3
- Principal in arrears            422,269                          470,390    +11.4                        540,392    +14.9
- Interest in arrears             294,104                          313,993     *6.8                        335,518     r6.8
- Total in arrears                716,373         33.9             784,383      +9.5          30.8        875,910    t11.7             32.4
Total
- Number of loans affected
by arrears                           590                              625    tr5.9                            603     -3.5
- Principal in arrears          1,261,319                       1,360,585    +15.8                      1,599,212      i9.5
- Interest in arrears             850,441                       1,085,636    +27.7                      1,106,604      +1.9
- Total in arrears              2,111,760        100.0          2,546,221    +20.6          100.0       2,705,816      t6.3          100.0
EMENA/IDF
April 1977



ANNEX 16
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Income Statements 1971-76
(million escudos)
Includes Overseas Territories                                   Portugal Only
1971          1972          1973           1974                1974          1975         1976
INCOME
Interest and commissions                     619.7          835.2       1,064.0        1,362.1             1,109.5       1,955.3      3,108.2
Dividends and bond income                     50.2           42.9          40.0           41.5                 39.7         10.6          5.0
Profit on exchange and security
operations                                   5.3            5.8          12.5           (5.3)               (4.9)         30.8         23.2
Other income                                   0.4            2.0           26.3           2.9                  7.5  1/      0.3          0.8
Total Income                             675.6          885.9       1,142.8        1,401.2             151           1,997.0      3,137.2
EXPENSES
Interest and commissions                     424.8          563.7         731.6          908.9               734.6       1,399.4      1,882.6
Administrative expenses                       76.2           87.8         123.1          164.7               103.4         139.5        159.6
Depreciation                                   7.2            7.8           16.9          28.6                24.3          32.1         23.5
Guarantee fund allocation                      7.1            7,0           6.6            7.7                 7.7          13.4          60.4
Provision for doubtful debts                   5.0           29.0          37.0          213.0               204.0         282.0         860.0 3]
Total expenses                           520.3         695.3          915.2        1,32                1,074.0       1,866.4      2986.1
GRnss PROFIT                                    155.3          190.6          227.6           78.3               77.8         130.6         151.1
Provision for taxes and levies                52.9           78.7           96.6          70.0                70.0          40.0          68.5 3/
NET PROFIT                                      102.4          111.9          131.0           8. =.                            90.6         102.6
ALLOCATION OF NET PROFIT
(made during following year)
Legal reserve fund                            11.0           12.0           14.0           0.8                 0.8           4/            4/
Special reserve fund                          10.0           10.0          10.0            7.0                 6.5
Other reserve funds                           19.8  1       23.9           8.2             -                   -
Profit sharing among employees                 4.1            4.5            7.8
Profit sharing among Boards of
Directors and Auditors                        -             1.5           2.0 
Dividends                                     57.5           60.0          89.0             -
Retained earnings                               --                                         0.5                0.5
Net profit                               102.4          111.9         131.0            8.3                 7.8
GUARANTEE FUND
Balance - beginning of year                  118.9          133.1         147.4          161.9                93.4         106.5         125.6
Allocation                                     7.1            6.9           6.6            7.7                 7.7          13.4          60.4
Income reinvested                              6.4            7.2           7.2           10.2                 5.4           5.7           5,2
Collection of loans written off -              0.7            0.2           0.7            3.4                                -         _
Balance-end of year                          133.1          147.4         161.9          183.2               106.5         125.6        =191.2
 - - - - - - - - - - - - As percentage of average total assets - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Income                                         5.9            5.9           6.0            5.9                 5.4           7.3          9.3
Interest and commission expense                3.7            3.8           3.9            3.8                 3,4           5.1         536
Gross spread                                   2.2            2.1           2.1            2.1                 2.0           2.3.7
Administrative expenses                        0.7            0.6           0.6            0.7                 0.5           0.5           0.5
Other expenses                                 0.2            0.3           0.3            1.1                 1.1           1.2           2.8
Gross profit                                   1.3            1.2            1.2           0.3                 0.4           0.5           0.4
Provision for taxes and levies                 0.4            0.5           0.5            0.3                 0.3          0.2            0.1
Net profit                               -0                                           ==                 0.1           03            Q.3
09            0.7            .7 
1/ Includes net profit from overseas territories of Esc 6.9 million.
2/ Based on BFN's recommendation to the Minister of Finance that some 85%
of gross profit be allocated to this provision.
3/ Mission estimate, based on recomsendation noted in footnote 2.
4/ Pending Minister of Finance's approval.
5/ Eac 382.2 million was also added to this fund, representing premiums received on sale of new share capital.
6/ When BFN was established and took over the existing National Development Fund.
Source: Banco de Fomento Nacional
April 1977



NEX l7
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Balance Sheets 1971-76
(million escudos)
Includes Overseas Territories                                        Portugal Only
December 31,                                  1971           1972            1973           1974                1974          1975           i976
ASSETS
Cash and deposits                              170.3          579.3           397.7          577.2                367.5          269.6         718.5
Other current assets                           233.2          412.7           124.1          123.3                 173.4         562.9         427.7
Total current assets                       403.5          992.0           521.8          700.5                540.9         832.5        1,146.2
Equity investments-market value              1,196.0        1,148.2         1,794.9        1,722.5              1,073.9       1,076.9  1/ )1,506.4
Bonds-market value                             207.6          209.6           194.9          138.6                674.5          124 8  1/
Medium-term loans                            7,372.4        9,673.7        11,551.6       17,127.4             14,569.1       17,969.0      22,982.9
Long-term loans                              2,285.8        2,588.2         3,259.1        3,655.2              2,511.4       4,753.3        6,281.2
Debtors due to anticipated financing            19.5           42.8           551.6          434.5                431.4          528.6         225.3
Financing for account and by order
of the Portuguese State                      646.8        1,681.2        1,919.1         2,281.3              2,281.3       2,361.8    -  2,472.0
Values in the account "Portuguese
State-Counterpart Funds"                      48.8           40.4            31.5           26.6                 26.6          22.0           15.6
Values in the guarantee fund                   133.1           147.4          161.9          183.2                114.6          127.8          193.6
Total investments                      11,910.0        15,531.5       19,464.6        25,569.3             21,682.8      26,964.2       33,677.0
Fixed assets (net)                             100.7          155.1           159.3          168.3                144.6          162.3          143.3
Other assets                                   346.7          421.7           574.5          689.6              1,898.2  2/  2,326.2  2/ _ 2,405.4 -
Total Assets                           12 760.9        17A 100.3      20 720.2       2L127.7              24266.5        30r285.2       374371.9
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities                            205.6          211.6           403.5          462.8                301.9          504.5         800.6
Time deposits                                4,987.8        6,913.7         8,613.8       10,306.7              9,064.9       9,150.6       10,976.2
Bonds                                          494.6          431.6           567.2          701.5                549.8          502.2         426.5
Portugues State:
Loans and provisions                    1,075.7         1,106.5        1,275.2         1,417.0              1,417.0       1,327.3        1,156.3
Application of National Deve-
lopment Promissory Notes                538.2           780.0          775.0          725.0                725.0          725.0          725.0
Counterpart funds                          48.8            40.4           31.5            26.6                 26.6          22.0           15.6
Special account                           442.3           452.5          463.3           469.5                469.5         475.0          482.3
Surplus of the participation in the
BanA& capital                           197.1           197.1          197.1           197.1                197.1         197.1          197.1
Committed financing                       646.8         1,681.2        1,919.1         2.255.9              2,255.9       2.240.6        2,232.7
sub-total - Portugues State          2,948.9        4,257.7         4,661.2        5,091.1              5,091.1        4,987.0        4,809.0
Loans by credit institutions:
Banco de Portugal                         156.2           184.0          399.9         3,908.0              3,908.0       9,685.2       10,904.3
Caixa Geral de Depositoa                  759.0           790.1          712.0           733.0                733.0         664.0          595.0
Midland Bank                                  -              -               -              -                    -          114.3          )73.9
European Investment Bank                                                                                                       -           111.0
Kredietbac,k                                  -              -               -              -                    -             -         1,574.O
Banco de Angola                           244.7           339.3          171.8           416.7                   -             -
Banco Nacional Ultramarino                280.0           276.0          280.0           287.1                   -              -
I.D.C. of South Africa                    322.8           278.6          320.5           285.0                   -             -
sub-total -credit institutions    1,762.7           1,868.0         1,884.2        5,629.8              4,641.0       10,463.5      13,358.2
Other loans                                       -               -           200.0          400.0                400.0          300.0          200.0
Other liabilities                              403.9          502.8           815.7          980.6                768.3        1,033.0       1,431.9
Security portfolio appreciation                141.8          123.7           666.8          503.8                503.8             -
Provision for doubtful debts                   257.0          286.0           323.0          536.0                514.4          796.4        1,656.4
Share capital                                1,000.0        1,500.0         1,500.0        1,500.0              1,500.0       1,500.0        2,500.0
Legal reserve fund                              80.0           91.0           103.0          117.0                117.0          117.8          126.6
Special reserve fund                           110.0          120.0           130.0          140.0                140.0          146.5          146.5
Guarantee fund                                 133.1          147.4           161.9          183.2                106.5          125.6          191.2
Other reserve funds                            133.0          534.8           558.7          566.9                566.9          566.9          566.8
Retained earnings                                0.1             0.1            0.1             0.1                 0.1            0.6           79.4
Current year's profits - to be allocated   102.4              111.9           131.1            8.2                  0.8           90.6         102.6
sub-total net worth                      1,558.6         2,505.2        2,584.8         2,515.4              2,431.3       2,548.0        3,713.1
Total Liabilities                      124760.=9       171003         204720.2        27.127.7             24,266.5      30.285 2       37_=21*2
Contingent liabilities
Guarantees                                 989.3          985.7        1,914.0         2,329.5              1,246.7       1,709.1        2,155.5
mitted but undisbursed loans         1,556.4        1,560.2         1,891.5        1,776.3              1,572.4        1,812.0        3,628.5
1/ cost basis
2; i..cludes net overseas assets of approximately Eac 1,700 million.
Source: Banco de Fomento Nacional
Anril 1977



BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Debt-Equity Ratio Calculation 1971-76
(million escudos)
Includes Overseas Territories                              Portugal Only
December 31,                          1971         1972         1973          1974             1974         1975       1976
DEBT
Time deposits                                      4,987.8      6,913.7      8,613.8      10,306.7          9,064.9       9,150.6    10,976.2
Bonds                                                494.6        431.6        567.2         701.5            549.8         502.2       426.5
Portuguese State-total                             2,948.9      4,257.7      4,661.2       5,091.1          5,091.1       4,987.0     4,809.0
Loans by credit institutions                       1,762.7      1,868.0       1,884.2      5,629.8          4,641.0      10,463.5    13,358.2
Other loans                                             -            -         200.0         400.0            400.0         300.0       200.0
Subtotal                                 10,194.0     13,471.0     15,926.4     22,129.1          19,746.8     25,403.3    29,769.9
Less: Surplus of Government's participation
in capital (equity)                          197.1        197.1        197.1         197.1            197.1         197.1       197.1
Counterpart funds (Marshall Plan
donation)                                     48.8         40.4         31.5          26.6             26.6          22.0        15.6
Special account (Marshall Plan
donation)                                    442.3        452.5        463.3         469.5            469.5         475.0       482.3
Committed financing (at Government's
risk)                                        646.8      1X681.2      1X919.1       2,255.9          2X255.9       2,240.6     2,232.7
Subtotal                                  8,859.0     11,099.8     13,315.4      19,180.0         16,797.7      22,468.6   26.84Z.2
Plus- Guarantees                                     989.3         985.7    1j914.0        2,329.5           1.246.7      1.709.1     2,1555
TOTAL DEBT                               92848.3      12 085.5    15.229 4       21506 5          18 044.4      24jl77.7   28BS22^7
EQUITY
Net worth                                          1,558.6      2,505.2       2,584.8      2,515.4           2,431.3      2,548.0      3,713.1
Less: Guarantee fund                                 133.1         147.4        161.9        183.2             106.5        125.6        191.2
Dividends declared                              57.5         60.0          89.0           -                 -            -            -
Profit sharing                                   4.1          6.0           9.8           -                 -            -      _
Subtotal                                  1,363.9      2,291.8      2,324.1       2,332.2          2,324.8       2,422.4     3,521.9
Plus- Surplus of Government's participation
in capital                                   197.1        197.1         197.1        197.1             197.1        197.1       197.1
Marshall Plan donation                         491.1        492.9         494.8        496.1             496.1        497.0        497-9
TOTAL EQUITY                             23052.1       2.981.8       3.016.0      3.025 4           =1_185 0     3116.          26
DEBT-EQUITY RATIO                                        4.80          4.05         5.05         7.11              5.98          7.76         6.88
Source: EMENA/IDF
April 1977



BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Indicators 1971-76
Includes Overseas Territories                             Portugal   ly
1971       1972        1973         1974                1974      1975       1976
Profitability Indicators
Net profit as % of average net worth                            6.7         5.5          5.1          0.3              0.3        3.6        3.3  1/
Gross profit as 70 of average net worth                        10.2         9,4          8.9         3.1               3,2        5.2        4.8  1/
Dividends as % of net profit                                   56.2        53.6         67.9           -                 -         -          -
Dividends as % of par value share                               5.8         4.0          5.9           -                 -         _          -
Book value share as % of par value share                      155.9       167.0        172.3        167.7            162.1      169.9      148.5  1/
Year of operation                                              12th.       13th.        14th.        15th.            15th.      16th.        17th.
Operational Indicators
Gross income as % of average total assets                       5.9         5.9          6.0          5.9              5.4        7.3           9.3
Administrative expenses as 7. of average total assets           0.7         0.6          0,7          0.8              0.6        0.6          0.5
Financial expenses as % of average total assets                 3.8         4.0          4.1          4.7              4.4        6.2          8.3  1/
Administrative expenses/number of professional
staff (in US$000's)                                      42.8        48.3         59.1         88,3              60.0       76.3         58.7
Dividends and realized capital gains as %
of average securities portfolio  2/                       4.4         3.9          4.1          2.7               2.9        3.4          0.4
Income from loans as % of average loan portfolio                6.8         6.8          6.8          6.7              6.5        8.6          10.7
Volume of approvals/professional staff (in US$000's)   2,744.6    4,170.2           5,404.6       5,754.8          5,142.3   4,956.4       6,447.1
Cost of debt as % of average debt                               4.7         4.8          5.0          4.8              4,4        6.2           7.0
Year-end professional staff                                      65          66           79           73                71         75          104
Financial Structure Indicators
Total debt/year-end net worth                                   7.6         6.1          7.4         10.3               9.1       11.2          9.2
Long term debt/year-end net worth                               6.5         5.4          6.2          8.8               8.1       10.0          8.4
Debt/equity (proposed for IBRD agreement) 3/                    4.8         4.1          5.0          7.1               6.0        7.8         6.9
Provision for doubtful debts 4/ as % of loans,
equity and guarantee portfolios                           3.2         3.0          2.5          2.8               3.0        3.5          5.6  1/
Interest coverage ratio                                         1.4         1.4          1.3          1.2               1.2        1.1          1.1  1/
Year-end total assets excluding contingent
liabilities (in US$ millions)                           425.4       570.0        690.7        904.3             808.9   1,009.5       1,245.7
Year-end total assets including contingent
liabilities (in US$ millions)                           510.2       654.9        817.5      1,041.1             902.9   1,126.9       1,438.5
Year-end  net worth (in US$ millions)                          52.0        83.5         86.2         83.8              81.0       84.9        123.8
1/ Based on an allocation to provision for doubtful debts of 85Z of gross profit; see footnote 2, Annex 16.
2/ Includes profit on exchange and bonds and bond income.
3/ See Annex 18.
4/  Includes guarantee fund.
Source: Banco de Fomento Nacional
April 1977



ANNEX 20
Page 1
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Major Assumptions Underlying the Projections
( all forecast amounts are in 1977 prices)
I. Projected Operations
Basic Assumption: BFN projected the percentage of gross fixed capital
formulation (GFCF) within Portugal that it would provide, based on historical
trends. It used the Bank's preliminary projection of GFCF that was available
in December. The relevant figures are (million escudos):
Year            GFCF                BFN's %          Disbursements
1970          31,060                  5.6                1,740
1971          36,974                  6.2                2,296
1972          47,080                  6.4                2,999
1973          56,891                  5.2                2,936
1974          65,152                  8.2                5,374
1975          50,700                 12.7                6,462
1976          62,000(est.)           11.3                7,005
1977          92,523                  7.6                7,000
1978         108,530                  7.5                8,150
1979         125,460                  7.5                9,400
1980         143,526                  7.5               10,800
1981         164,194                  7.5               12,300
This provided the disbursement figures for direct credit and for credit for
production and sale within Portugal, i.e. those operations that directly add
to capital formation in Portugal. Based on past experience, BFN projected
that 60% of these disbursements would be for direct credit operations and 40%
for production and sale on credit oprations. Of the direct credit disburse-
ments, some Esc 3,000 million would be made from the EFTA Industrial
Development Fund.
Export Credit: BFN feels that this relatively new activity will grow
rapidly, given its importance to helping to solve the balance of payments
problem. It therefore projected an average yearly growth in disbursements
of 17%.
Foreign Exchange: Based on past experience BFN projected that 35%
of disbursements will be to cover the cost of imported goods and services.
Applicationr.Approvals and Commitments: Overall, BFN projected that
in each year the equivalent of 70% of applications will be approved, 35% of
applications will be committed and 30% will be disbursed. The pattern,
however, is quite different for export credit and for domestic credit.
Exporters of capital goods need BFN's approval before they make their bids.
Often, though, they fail to win the contract and therefore the approved loan
is never committed or disbursed. Thus 85% of applications for export credit are
projected to be approved but only 11% committed and 10% disbursed. For domestic
credit 60% of applications are projected to be approved, 50% committed and 45%
disbursed. These figures are based on past experience and take into account
the time lags between application and final disbursement.



ANNEX 20
Page 2
Equity Investments: BFN has projected no equity operations after
1977. It anticipates establishing a separate fund to assist firms whose equity
capital has been seriously eroded.
II. Projected Income Statements
Interest Income: BFN's loan agreements contain a provision allowing it
to adjust the interest rate as and when the Central Bank changes the maximum
interest rate that can be charged. Thus, most of BFN's loan portfolio earns the
maximum interest that can be charged (there are several loans that carry a lower
rate as the borrower carries the foreign exchange risk). However, the pro-
jections are based on a level 11.5% p.a. interest rate from 1977 onwards.
Interest Expense: All borrowings, including deposits, are assumed
to cost 9.5% p.a.
Administrative Expenses: This item is projected to increase at 16.5%
p.a., the same increase projected for the loan portfolio, reflecting staff
additions and normal increments.
Guarantee Fund Allocation: This fund is established by BFN's Statutes
as a reserve for doubtful debts. The annual allocations are designed to maintain
the fund at 0.5% of the loan portfolio.
Provision for Doubtful Debts: The annual provision of Esc 250 million
has been somewhat arbitrarily set. It will increase this reserve to just under
4% of the investment portfolio by 1979, maintaining it at this level thereafter.
Dividends: As the Government is the sole shareholder, no dividends
are projected.
III. Projected Cash Flow Statements
Time Deposits: BFN projects an annual increase in time deposits of
Esc 1,500 million. Such increases were experienced before the revolution.
Certificates of Deposit: BFN anticipates issuing certificates of
deposit for the first time in 1977. It is expected that commercial banks and
other speicalized credit institutions with excess liquidity would purchase them,
in line with guidelines issued by the Central Bank. The terms and conditions
remain to be worked out.
Local Loans: This category includes loans from the Government, the
Central Bank and Caixa Geral de Depositos as well as local bond issues. The
projections assume no new bond issues as the Government is expected to continue
dominate the local market, paying higher interest rates than BFN could afford.
is category is assumed to be the balancing item among local currency sources
nd uses.
New Foreign Loans: This category, which includes the proposed Bank
loan, is assumed to be able to cover all foreign exchange disbursements not
covered by existing foreign loans. Repayments of all foreign loans is assumed
to be covered by repayments received by BFN from its borrowers.



ANNEX 20
Page 3
Share Capital: The increase in 1977 is expected to be made through
the conversion of Esc 1,000 million of existing loans from the Government and
through a cash payment of Esc 500 million. Future increases, which are timed to
to maintain a debt/equity ratio of less than 6 to 1, are expected to be in
cash.
IV. Projected Balance Sheets
Managed Funds: Outstanding loans made from EFTA Industrial Development
Fund are shown as a contra-account as they are to be accounted for separately.
Source: Banco de Fomento Nacional and EMENA/ IDF
March  1977



ANNEX 21
Page 1
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Projected Operations
(million escudos)
1976       1977        1978        1979        1980       1981
APPLICATIONS                       (Actual)
Direct Credit
Industrial Credit             6,145        8,000       9,050      10,400     11,850      13,450
Other Direct Credit           1,536        2,000       2,250       2,600      2,950       3,350
Subtotals               7,681       10,000     11,300      13,000      14,800      16,800
Production and Sale on Credit   3,727         5,400       6,800       7,900       9,100     10,500
Export Credit                     8,291      10,000      11,000      14,000      16,000     18,000
Total Applications              19,699       25,400      29,100      34,900      39,900     45,300
APPROVALS
Direct Credit
Industrial Credit             3,277        4,800       5,420       6,240      7,100       8,060
Other Direct Credit             531        1,200       1,360       1,560      1,780       2,020
Subtotals               3,758        6,000      6,780       7,800       8,880      10,080
Production and Sale on Credit   3,225         3,250       4,080       4,740       5,460      6,300
Export Credit                   11,817        8,500       9,350      11,900     13,600      15,300
Total Approvals                 18,800       17,750      20,210      24,440      27,940     31,680
COMMITMENTS 1/
Direct Credit
Industrial Credit
Local currency             2,149        2,120       2,660      3,085       3,570       4,090
Foreign exchange           1,157        1,140       1,420      1,660       1,925       2,205
Subtotals               3,306        3,260      4,080       4,745       5,495       6,295
Other Direct Credit
Local currency               537          530         665         775        890       1,020
Foreign exchange             290          280         355         415        480         550
Subtotals                 827          81C      1,020       1,190       1,370      1,570
Total Direct Credit
Local currency             2,686        2,650       3,325      3,860       4,460       5,110
Foreign exchange           1,447        1,420       1,775      2,075       2,405       2,755
Subtotals               4,133        4,070      5,100       5,935       6,865      7,865
Production and Sale on Credit
Local currency             1,938        1,760       2,210      2,570       2,975       3,410
Foreign exchange           1,043          950       1,190      1,385       1,600       1,835
Subtotals               2,981        2,710      3,400       3,955       4,575      5,245
Export Credit
Local currency               832          720         785      1,010       1,160       1,300
Foreign exchange             447          390         435        545         620         700
Subtotals               1,279        1,110      1,220       1,555      1,780       2,000
Total Commitments
Local currency             5,456        5,130       6,320      7,440       8,595       9,820
Foreign exchange           2,937        2,760       3,400      4,005       4,625       5,290
Totals                  8,393        7,890      9,720      11,445      13,220     15,110
==           ===__= EFTA Fund
1/ excludes EFTA Fund



ANNEX 21
Page 2
1976       1977        1978        1979        1980        1981
(Actual)
DISBURSEMENTS 1/
Direct Credit
Industrial Credit
Local currency             2,103        1,905       2,390       2,775       3,215       3,680
Foreign exchange           1,132        1,025       1,280       1,495       1,730      1,985
Subtotals       3,235        2,930       3,670       4,270       4,945       5,665
Other Direct Credit
Local currency               526          475         600         695         800         920
Foreign exchange             283          255         320         375         435         495
Subtotals         809           730        920       1,070       1,235       1,415
Total Direct Credit
Local currency             2,629        2,380       2,990       3,470       4,015      4,600
Foreign exchange           1,415        1,280       1,600       1,870       2,165      2,480
Subtotals       4,044        3,660       4,590       5,340       6,180       7,080
Production and Sale on Credit
Locai  CULLCLIL,_y         1,925        1,585       1,990       2,315       2,680      3,070
Foreign exchange           1,036          855       1,070       1,245       1,440      1,650
Subtotals       2,961        2,440       3,060       3,560       4,120       4,720
Export Credit
Local currency               614          650         710         910       1,040      1,170
Foreign exchange             331          350         390         490         560        630
Subtotals         945        1,000       1,100       1,400       1,600       1,800
Total Disbursements
Local currencv            5,168         4,615       5,690      6,695       7,735       8,840
Foreign exchange           2,782        2,485       3,060       3,605      4,165       4,760
Totals          7,950        7,100       8,750      10,300      11,900     13,600
EFTA FUND
Commitments                        -          1,000         556         556         556        556
Disbursements                      -             900        500         500         500         500
1/ excludes EFTA Fund
Source:Banco de Fomento Nacional and EMENA/IDF
March 1977



BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Projected Income Statements 1977-81
(million escudos)
1976       1977        1978        1979        1980        1981
(actual)
Income
Interest and commissions                                   3,108      3,537       4,063       4,698       5,429       6,256
Dividends and bond income                                       5          6           6          6           6           6
Profit on exchange and security operations                    24          20          30         40          45          50
Total income                                       3,137      3,563       4,099       4,744      5,480       6,312
Expense
Interest and commissions                                   1,883      2,656       3,022       3,430       3,876       4,389
Administrative expenses                                       160        200        230         270         300         350
Depreciation                                                   23         25          35         40          60          70
Guarantee Fund allocation                                      60         20         25          30          33          38
Provision for doubtful debts                                  860 1/    250         250         250         250         250
Total expenses                                     2,986      3,151       3,562       4,020       4,519       5,097
Gross Profit                                                     151        412         537        724         961       1,215
Provision for taxes and levies                                 48         20         20          20          20          20
Net Profit                                                       103        392        517         704         941       1,195
1/ Based on BFN's recommendation to the Minister of Finance that 85% of gross
profits be allocated to this nrovision.
Source: Banco de Fomento Nacional and EMENA/IDF
April  1977



ANNEX 23
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Projected Balance Sheets 1977-81
(million escudos)
1976       1977        1978        1979        1980       1981
(actual)
ASSETS
Current assets                                      1,146         970      1,100       1,220       1,350       1,420
Investments 1/
Equity                                       )         (    2,470       2,470       2,470       2,470       2,470
Bonds                                            1,506 (       125         125        125         125         125
Loans                                           29,490     32,725      37,775      43,720      50,460      58,060
Counterpart funds                                   16           6         -           -           -           -
Subtotals                                   31,012      35,326      40,370      46,315      53,055     60,655
Values in the guarantee fund                          194         164         189        219         252         290
Fixed assets (net)                                    143         240         340        460         460         460
Other assets                                        2,405       2,250      2,300       2,350       2,400       2,450
Total Assets                                34,900      38,950      44,299      50,564      57,517     65,275
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities                                   801       1,200      1,100       1,300       1,600       1,850
Certificates of deposit                                -          500      1,000       1,500       2,500       3,500
Time deposits                                      10,976      11,500     13,000      14,500      16,000      17,500
Bonds                                                 347         282         232        182         132          82
Local loans 1/                                     14,036      13,079     13,183      12,221      11,868      11,469
Foreign loans:
Units of account bonds                              80          40         -           -           -           -
Midland Bank                                       174         269        202         135          68          -
Credit Commercial de France                         -          479        359         239         119          -
E.I.B.                                             111         500        500         500         464         392
Kredietbank                                     1,574       1,350       1,050         750         450         150
New loans                                           -        1,517      4,577       8,087      11,872      15,835
Subtotals-foreign loans                      1,939       4,155       6,688       9,711     12,973      16,377
Subtotals-debt                              27,298      29,516      34,103      38,114     43,473      48,928
Other liabilities                                  1,432        1,120      1,190       1,260       1,330       1,400
Provision for doubtful debt                        1,656        1,297      1,547       1,797       2,047       2,297
Guarantee fund                                        191         164         189        219         252         290
Share capital                                      2,500        4,000      4,000       5,000       5,000       5,500
Reserves                                           1,022        1,653       2,17W      2,74       1 ,1       5,nl 
Subtotals-net worth                          3,522       5,653       6,170       7,874       8,815     10,510
Total liabilities                           34,900      38,950      44,299      50,564      57,517     65,275
Contingent liabilities
Guarantees  2/                                  2,156       2,870       3,396       3,917       4,384       5,007
Committed but undisbursed loans  2/             3,628       1,982       2,952       4,097       5,417       6,927
Managed funds
EFTA Industrial Development Fund                  -         1,000       1,390       1,740       2,050       2,325
1/ excludes financing for account and by order of the
Portuguese State from assets and committed financing
from liabilities.
2/ mission estimate
Source: Banco de Fomento Nacional and EMENA/ IDF
April 1977



BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Projected Cash Flow Statements 1977-81
(million escudos)
1977     1978      1979       1980       1981
Sources
Net profit                                                        392      517        704       941      1,195
Non-cash charges                                                  275      285        290        310       320
Loan repayments                                                 3,165    3,700      4,355     5,160      6,000
Counterpart fund loan repayment                                     8        6         -         -          -
Time deposits (net)                                             1,500    1,500      1,500     1,500      1,500
Certificates of deposits (net)                                    500      500        500     1,000      1,000
Local loans (net)                                              (1,030)     104       (962)      (353)     (399)
Foreign loans:
Existing loans                                                 968       -          -         -          -
New loans                                                    1,517    3,060      3,605     4,165      4,760
Share capital                                                   1,500       -       1,000        -         500
Decrease/(Increase) in working capital                           (270)    (230)        80       170        180
Net effect of other assets and liabilities                         20        20        20         20        20
Totals                                                   8,545    9,462    11,092    12,913    15,076
Uses
Equity investments                                              1,000       -          -          -         -
Loan disbursements:
Local currency                                               4,615    5,690      6,695     7,735      8,840
Foreign exchange                                             2,485    3,060      3,605     4,165      4,760
Foreign loan repayments:
Existing loans                                                 284      527        487       523        559
New loans                                                       -        -          95       380        797
Fixed assets                                                      105      135        160         60        70
Repayment of bonds                                                 56       50         50        50         50
Totals                                                   8,545    9,462    11,092    12,913    15,076
Source: Banco de Fomento Nacional and EMENA/IDF
March 1977



BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Projected Indicators 1977-81
1977       1978        1979        1980        1981
Profitabi]ity Indicators
Net profit as % of average net worth                                          8.3         8.7        10.0        11.3        12.4
Gross profit as % of average net worth                                        8.8         9.1        10.3        11.5        12.6
Dividends as % of net profit                                                  -           -           -           -           -
Dividends as % of par value share                                             -           -           -           -           -
Book value share as % of par value share                                    141.3       154.2       157.5       176.3      191.1
Year of operation                                                            18th.       19th.       20th.       21St.       22nd.
Operational Indicators
Gross income as % of average total assets                                     9.8         9.8        10.0        10.1        10.3
Administrative expenses as % of average total assets                          0.6         0.6         0.7         0.7         0.7
Financial expenses as % of average total assets                               8.0         7.9         7.8         7.7         7.6
Administrative expenses/number of professional staff
(in US $000's)                                                           57.7        58.9        59.0        61.5        60.9
Dividends and realized capital gains as % of
average equity portfolio                                                    1/         1/          1/          1/         1/
Income from loans as % of average loan portfolio                             11.5        11.5        11.5       11.5         11.5
Volume of approvals/professional staff (in US$ 000's)                     4,551.3    4,491.1    4,655.2    4,776.1    4,591.3
Cost of debt as % of average debt                                             9.5         9.5         9.5         9.5         9.5
Year-end professional staff 2/                                                130         150         175         195         230
Financial Structure Indicators
Total debt/year-end net worth                                                 6.1         6.4         5.7         5.8         5.4
Long-term debt/year-end net worth                                             5.2         5.5         4.8         4.9         4.7
Debt/equity (proposed for IBRD agreement)                                     5.7         6.1         5.3         5.4         5.1
Provision for doubtful debts 3/ as % of loans, equity
and guarantee portfolios                                                   3.8         4.0         4.0         4.0        3.9
Interest coverage ratio                                                       1.2         1.2         1.2         1.3        1.3
Year-end total assets excluding contingent liabilities
(in US$ millions)                                                     1,298.3    1,476.6    1,685.5    1,917.2    2,175.8
Year-end total assets including contingent liabilities
(in US$ millions)                                                     1,460.1    1,688.2    1,952.6    2,243.9    2,573.6
Year-end net worth (in US$ millions)                                        188.4       205.7       262,5       293.8       350.3
1/ no dividend income is forecast
2/ mission estimate
3/ includes guarantee fund
Source: EMENA/IDF
March 1977



ANNEX 26
Page 1
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Strategy Statement for the 1977-78 Period
(Approved by the Board of Management on December 16, 1976)
(Preliminary version to be revised after approval of the 1977-80 plan)
1.              In the line with the Government's Program of August 1976 and
particularly with the industrial policies outlined in the Government's
Program, BFN's activity in the next two years will be developped so as to
achieve the following objectives:
a) to contribute to the recovery of the national economy and to the solution
of the current unemployment and balance of payments problems through the
financing of a significant portion of the national gross formation of
fixed capital and of the production of investment goods for exports, the
promotion of industrial projects, the encouragement to the necessary
structural changes and the finding of suitable solutions to the current
problems of debt rescheduling and undercapitalization;
b) to improve BFN's capacity to mobilize domestic and foreign financial re-
sources in accordance with principles of growing diversification of sources
of financing and adequate balance between internal and external resources;
and
c) to strengthen BFN's organizational structures, internal procedures and
working methods.



ANNEX 26
Page 2
I. Financing and promotion activities
2.              BFN intends to take part in the financing of some important
investment projects to be undertaken by public enterprises particularly
in the heavy industry and power sectors. Although the basic appraisal work
for these projects will be carried out by the responsible ministries or
public enterprises, BFN will maintain an independent judgment on the merits
of the projects and their suitability for BFN financing.
3.              A major part of BFN's loans will be for medium-sized projects,
mainly in the private manufacturing sector, where its influence can be par-
ticularly crucial in helping to design the project adequately and in encou-
raging the necessary restructuring measures. Priority will be given to
investment projects that create a significant number of jobs, earn or save
foreign exchange or contribute to regional development.
4.              BFN will also be active in supporting small scale  industry.
The appraisal of these smaller projects will involve BFN's regional branch
offices and be conducted according to a simplified format making use of
sectorial and regional parameters. One of the priorities in this respect
will be investment projects sponsored by displaced persons from the former
overseas territories.
5.               In the framework of its industrial promotion activities  BFN
will identify in selected industrial subsectors (to be determined in accord-
ance with the forthcoming plan) projects for which it will support the pre-
paration of feasibility studies.
6.              BFN is studying the establishment of a system to purchase par-
ticipations in companies suffering severe undercapitalization but showing
prospects for recovery and also to provide equity for new ventures when the
promoters have insufficient funds of their own. Such participations in
equity would be sold back to the entrepreneurs over time in agreement with
previously defined terms.



ANNEX 26
Page 3
7.               BFN will seek to resolve the problems created by significant
arrears on loans granted to public and private enterprises through a real-
istic rescheduling of the amortization schedules taking into account the
prospects for economic recovery. Future repayments will be monitored closely.
II. Mobilization of resources
8.               Following the recent increase in capital subscribed by the State,
representing an inflow of Esc 1 billion in fresh funds, new negotiations are
now in process in view of a further capital increase through the conversion
into equity of loans from the State.
9.              BFN is also negotiating with the Government and the  relevant
credit institutions the possibility to obtain at a favourable cost loans
from national credit institutions experiencing a liquidity surplus. The
progress achieved on this will allow BFN to reduce in the future its depen-
dence on rediscounts from the Central Bank.
10.               To increase its mobilization of domestic savings, BFN intends
to propose new savings mechanisms (including certificates of deposit), to
launch a campaign of mass-media advertising and to strengthen the mobiliza-
tion efforts of its regional branch offices.
11.               BFN will diversify its sources of financing in the international
capital market in order to meet the foreign exchange needs associated with
the projects it finances.
III. Strengthening of organizational structures, internal
procedures and working methods
12.               BFN intends to carry out in the course of 1977 an  important
reorganization of its structures after consultation with the staff and



ANNEX 26
Page 4
careful deliberation on all aspects of the reorganization in order to
achieve a better implementation of its objectives. An important aspect
of this reorganization will be some decentralization of the project
appraisal work to the regional branch offices.
13.             BFN intends to reinforce its staff and intensify their pro-
fessional training. In particular in the field of project appraisal
techniques, BFN intends to organize internal seminars and to introduce
improved methods of financial and economic analysis.
14.             BFN intends to strengthen its capacity to supervise on going
loans with a view to detecting at an early stage difficulties experienced
by borrowers and to assist them in taking adequate measures.
15.             BFN intends to reinforce its systems of management planning
and control and to adopt an improved system of electronic data processing.



ANNEX 27
BANCO DE FOMENTO NACIONAL
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                Disbursements           Cumulative
During Quarter        Disbursement
1978
September 30, 1977                              0.3                   0.3
December 31, 1977                               0.6                   0.9
March 31, 1978                                  0.9                   1.8
June 30, 1978                                   1.5                   3.3
1979
September 30, 1978                              3.0                   6.3
December 31, 1978                               4.5                  10.8
March 31, 1979                                  6.0                  16.8
June 30, 1979                                   7.0                  23.8
1980
September 30, 1979                              8.0                  31.8
December 31, 1979                               7.0                  38.8
March 31, 1980                                  5.0                  43.8
June 30, 1980                                   3.0                  46.8
1981
September 30, 1980                              1.5                  48.3
December 31, 1980                               0.9                  49.2
March 31, 1981                                  0.6                  49.8
June 30, 1981                                   0.2                  50.0
Source: EMENA/ IDF
April 1977



