Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7208-BIH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 46.2 MILLION
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR A
PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
April 27, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of April 27, 1998)
Unit of currency: Konvertible Marka (KM), equivalent to 1:1 to Deutsche Mark
I KM=US$0.56
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BiH            Bosilia and Herzegovina
BHD            Bosnia and Herzegovina Dinar
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CIFR           Commission on Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations
DMU            Debt Management Unit
EBF            Extra-budgetary Fund
EU             European Union
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IDA            International Development Association
IFI            International Financial Institution
IM             Initiating Memorandum
IMF            International Monetary Fund
KM             Konvertible Marka
MFTER          Ministry for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
OEDM           Office of External Debt Management
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PFSAC          Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit
SBA            Stand-by Arrangement
SFRY           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
TAC            Transition Assistance Credit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President:      Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Director:     Pradeep Mitra
Sector Leader:       Frank Lysy
Task Team Leader:    Sebnem Akkaya



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
iii
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PROPOSED PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Operation Summary
Borrower:           Bosnia and Herzegovina
Beneficiaries:      Bosnia and Herzegovina, Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Republika Srpska
Amount:              SDR 46.2 million (US$63 million equivalent)
Terms:               35 years, including a 10-year grace period
Credit Objectives:   To support the establishment of public finance structures and implementation of
reform policies at the State and Entity levels. Specifically, the Credit will
support: (i) securing financing of the State through the preparation and adoption
of the budgets of the State and the Entity governments and through the
development and implementation of a transfer mechanism that would provide a
regular and predictable flow of funds to the State budget for meeting its
obligations; (ii) development of a debt management capacity in Bosnia and
Herzegovina; (iii) administrative reforms to improve efficiency and transparency
of government budgetary operations; (iv) initiation of reform and harmonization
of tax policies and administration within Bosnia and Herzegovina; and
(v) initiation of reform in the pension system.
Credit Description:  The Credit will be lent to the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina which will in turn
onlend in the amount of US$33 million:US$30 million to the Federation and
Republika' Srpska, at the same terms of the IDA Credit. The Credit will be
disbursed in two tranches for budgetary and balance of payments support to
Bosnia and Herzegovina.  Release of tranches will be linked to policy
conditionality as agreed during the negotiation of the Credit.
Benefits:           The proposed Credit will support measures that are crucial for the further
development of a new govemment structure at the State and the Entity levels,
reintegration of the economy and reorganization of the public finance system.
Establishment of an effective and integrated public finance structure will help
Bosnia and Herzegovina to better conduct macroeconomic management, reduce
cost to economic transactions, and achieve external creditworthiness.  It will
support economic and social development that will benefit all people in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. By pursuing essential reforms in key public finance institutions and
policies, the Credit will help the Entities correct the medium-term imbalance
between revenues and expenditures and set appropriate priorities for public
expenditures. By supporting the creation of a public sector which is more suitable
to a market economy, the Credit will also contribute to private sector development,
employment creation and poverty reduction.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iv
Risks:              The two potential risks faced by the proposed Credit are: (i) non-implementation
of agreed policies and reversal of reform measures; and (ii)diversion of the
counterpart funds of PFSAC proceeds for non-priority uses. To mitigate the risk of
non-implementation of agreed policies and reversal of reform measures, the Bank
requires upfront fulfillment of conditions for tranche releases whenever possible;
and will work closely with the IMF, the US Treasury and others to jointly promote
the implementation of the reform agenda. To reduce the potential risk of diversion
of the counterpart funds of the PFSAC proceeds for non-priority use, PFSAC will
support reform measures to strengthen the budgetary allocation process. It will
also be conditional on the formulation of the budgets of the Entities that are
inclusive of the envisaged PFSAC funds.
Poverty Category:   Direct impact upon poverty will be effected through provision of more adequate
resources for social protection programs, and improved targeting and distribution
of social benefits.
Rate of Return:     Not Applicable
Map:                IBRD 27708-R
Project ID Number:  BA-PE-45546



v
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PROPOSED PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CONTENTS
I.    INTRODUCTION .........................................................I
II.   MACROECONOMIC SETTING AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS .................................1
A. Macroeconomic Setting ................................................................1
B. Economic Outlook and Financing Requirements ................................................................2
III. BACKGROUND AND ISSUES IN PUBLIC FINANCE                                                .4
A. Dayton Rules on Public Finance Structure                                  .4
B. Need to Control the Expenditure Level                                   .5
C. Issues in Public Finance Reform                                      .5
IV. PUBLIC FINANCE REFORM PROGRAM                                                     .6
A. Ensuring Financing of the State to Meet its Mandated Obligations                      .6
B. Establishing a Viable Debt Management Structure                               .8
C. Reforming Intergovernmental Finances within the Entities .10
D. Reforming and Harmonizing Tax Policies and Coordinating Tax Collection .12
E. Initiating Pension Reform                                        .13
F. Reforming the Budgetary Management System .16
V.   THE PROPOSED CREDIT ..........................................                                               18
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement ..............................................                           18
B. Credit Amount and Borrower ..............................................                               19
C. Credit Design ..............................................                                            19
D. Administrative Arrangements ..............................................                              19
E.  Disbursement ..............................................                                            19
F.  Monitoring Arrangements and Tranche Release Conditions ..............................................  20
G. Environmental Assessment Requirements ..............................................                    20
H. Benefits and Risks ..............................................                                       20
VI. RECOMMENDATION .21
ANNEX I            Policy Matrix
ANNEX II           Letter of Development Policy
ANNEX III          Statistical Annex



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PFSAC)
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 46.2 MILLION
TO BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
I .    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Credit to Bosnia
and Herzegovina (BiH) in the amount of SDR 46.2 million (US$63 million equivalent) to help finance a
Public Finance Structural Adjustment Operation.  The proposed Credit would be on International
Development Association (IDA) terms, with a 35-year maturity, including a 10-year grace period. This
operation follows a more broadly-based structural adjustment operation in 1996, and is the first of two
planned operations that focus on public finance reform. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was
discussed by the Board of Directors in August 1997. The most recent economic report on BiH (Bosnia and
Herzegovina-From Recovery to Sustainable Growth) was published in May 1997. A Public Expenditure
Review was completed in October 1997.
I. INTRODUCTION
2 .    The proposed PFSAC builds on BiH's achievements to date in establishing the common institutions
and governance structure as mandated by the Dayton Accords, and supports further progress in institution-
building and policy reforms in public finance. It aims to achieve this objective by focusing on the following
areas: (i) development and implementation of a sound transfer mechanism that would provide regular and
predictable flow of funds to the State budget; (ii) development of debt management capacity in BiH;
(iii) administrative reforms to improve efficiency and transparency of government budgetary operations;
(iv) initiation of efforts to reform and harmonize tax policies and administration within the country; and
(v) initiation of reform of the pension system. The proposed Credit would provide much needed budgetary
and balance of payments support to BiH in 1998. It is proposed that the Credit be disbursed in two tranches.
11. MACROECONOMIC SETTING AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
A. Macroeconomic Setting
3.    Since the signing of the Dayton Accords in December 1995, Bosnia and Herzegovina has
experienced the beginnings of economic and social recovery. While living standards are still very low for
many Bosnian families and economic activity is only at about one third of prewar levels, the reconstruction
effort has already borne significant fruit. Economic growth, which reached 50 percent in 1996, remained
high at 30 percent in 1997. Unemployment has declined from its postwar high of 90 percent to about
40 percent. Many schools and health clinics have reopened, repairs to infrastructure are well underway.
Commerce and production are picking up with the help of donor-financed lines of credit. The effects of
reconstruction and growth are particularly evident in one of the country's two constituent Entities, the
Bosniac-Croat Federation, where much of the international aid has been directed. Recovery in the other
constituent Entity, Republika Srpska, began after international sanctions were lifted in March 1996, and has
been proceeding at a slower pace than in the Federation.



2
4.    Bosnia and Herzegovina's strong recovery in the past two years was also accompanied by
macroeconomic stability, which was made possible by substantial donor assistance and recovery of the tax
base. It was facilitated by the de facto "Deutsch-Markization" of the economy, which imposed stringent
discipline on domestic monetary and fiscal management. Limit in the use of Bosnian dinar (BHD) to only
Bosniac-majority areas of the Federation further constrained policy maneuvering space. In the Croat-
majority areas and in Republika Srpska, Croat kuna and Yugoslav dinar, in addition to DM, have been in use
which limited the scope of debt financing by local fiscal authorities. Although there have been sizable
increases in fiscal arrears, cash outlay of the fiscal authorities was limited to available real sources of
financing (tax revenue and external support). As a result of these factors, the price level has been broadly
stable since early 1996.
5 .    Rebuilding of the governance structure has proceeded at a very slow pace. In the Federation,
modest progress has been made in establishing key economic institutions such as customs and tax
administrations. However, the fiscal system is yet to be fully unified as divergent policies and practices
continue for certain aspects of the fiscal system of the Federation. At the country-wide level, tie two
Entities have developed only limited institutional linkages and policy coordination, because of a lack of
progress in establishing or operationalizing the common institutions at the State level. Country-wide
elections took place, after some delay, in September 1996, and the State Council of Ministers was set up in
January 1997. Since then, the work of the Council of Ministers has proceeded, but only with great difficulty
and at a slow pace. International pressure, coordinated by the Office of High Representative, helped to
ensure that the State Parliament adopted, in June 1997, the key legislation needed for setting up a country-
wide institutional and policy framework. The legislation includes six essential laws regulating foreign trade,
external debt, customs policy, central bank and currency, and 1997 State budget. The challenge now facing
BiH is to operationalize and implement these laws.
B. Economic Outlook and Financing Requirements
6.    Macroeconomic Policy Framework. Macroeconomic stability has been maintained so far under an
economic policy framework developed with the help of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the
Bank. The prospects for continued stability depends critically on prudent management by the authorities,
the pace of further progress in institution building and market reform, and continued international financial
and technical assistance. The introduction of a proposed IMF Stand-by Arrangement in 1998 is expected to
strengthen the prospects for macroeconomic stability in the medium-term. Understandings on the economic
program to be supported under the proposed Arrangement have been reached by the BiH and the Entity
Governments and IMF Executive Board consideration is expected in May 1998.
7.     The IMF program supports continued economic and social recovery and transition to a market
economy while maintaining the current macroeconomic stability and consistency with the currency board
arrangement. The program aims to maintain macroeconomic stability through: (i) the use of a fixed
exchange rate as a nominal anchor through the currency board arrangement; (ii) fiscal discipline, aimed
initially at the avoidance of borrowing by all levels of government from the banking system or the non-bank
public; and (iii) large scale external assistance on concessional terms. Structural elements of the program
are wide ranging, covering customs tariff reform and trade liberalization; banking reform; enterprise
privatization and restructuring; the pension and health system reform, and the strengthening of economic
statistics. The program also aims to consolidate the fiscal institutions of the State and the Entities and
introduce reforms to make fiscal policy sustainable. In this area, the programs supported under the proposed
PFSAC and the proposed IMF Stand-by Arrangement are complementary to each other.
8 .    Prospects for Growth. Economic recovery is expected to continue so long as the reconstruction
program and the progress in institution building and market reform are continued, dthough it is unlikely that
growth in the medium term will be as rapid as in 1996 The growth rate is estimated to remain around



3
30 percent in 1998. As in 1996/97, growth and employment generation in 1998 will be stimulated to a large
extent by the donor-financed activities. Beyond 1998, the growth rate for BiH's economy will gradually
decline to the more normal range of 8-10 percent. With these assumptions, GDP is expected to reach about
two thirds of its prewar level by 2000.
Tablel: Selected Key Economic Indicators", 1995-2000
Estimated                          Projected
Indicator                           1995        1996        1997       1998        1999        2000
Gross Domestic Product
GDP (USS million)                                            2157       3328        4456        5956        7485        8635
Real GDP growth (%)                                             7          50         30          30          22          12
General Government Finance
Expenditures (% of GDP)                                        35          70         68          70          53          40
Tax Revenues2' (% of GDP)                                      29          43         43          38          35          36
Deficit (-) (% of GDP)                                         -6         -27         -25        -33         -18          -5
External Financing (% of GDP)                                   6          27         25          33          18           5
Grants                                                        6         19          18          21          12           3
Borrowing (net)                                               0          8           7          12           6           2
Balance of Payments (US$ million)
Financing Requirements                                      1604        3180        2200        4084       2636        1079
o/w Current Account Deficit3'                              953        1620        1590       2177         1698        835
o/w Debt Service (scheduled)                               513         573         385         236         186         194
o/w Increase in Foreign Exchange Reserves                   138        367         225         175          75          50
Financing Sources                                           1604        3180        2200       3830        2473          965
o/w Unrequited Net Transfers                              1002        1094         772         480        345         281
o/w New Financing for Reconstruction                          0       1040         901        1600        1200        410
o/w Arrears Clearance and Debt Reliefe'                       0        621           0        1497         679           0
Remaining Financing Gap5'                                       0           0          0         254         163         114
External Debt
Total External Debt6 (in%of GDP)                              156         117         100         80          68          62
Debt Service7/ (in % of total exports)                        135          87         39          18          11           9
1/ Data refers to estimates for all Bosnia and Herzegovina unless otherwise stated.
2/ Includes small amount of non-tax revenues in the form of fees, fines, etc.
3/ Excluding interest and transfers.
4/ Assumes clearance of arrears to Paris Club and multilateral creditors in 1998, and commercial creditors in 1999. Data reflects
clearance of IBRD arrears of 621 million on June 14, 1996; and debt rescheduling with London Club creditors, effective
as of December 31, 1997, offering a debt stock reduction equivalent to about 80 percent on a net present value basis.
I/ Before balance of payments lending from multiletaral institutions, including the Bank, and bilateral donors.
6/ Of the total debt, 56 percent in 1995,52 percent in 1996, and 54 percent in 1997 are in arrears.
7/ Refers to scheduled debt service.
Source: Official data, Bank and IMF staff estimates.
9.        Fiscal Outlook  The economic recovery boosted tax revenues, which increased from  29 percent of
GDP in 1995 to 43 percent in 1996/97. Revenue recovery combined with generous international aid has
allowed public expenditures to increase substantially. Public expenditure in 1996/97, inclusive of donor-



4
financed expense, reached almost DM 3 billion, or 70 percent of GDP. In 1998, total public expenditures
will remain high. The need for donor financing in the medium term, although declining as BiH's tax
revenues continue to recover, will still be significant.
10 .   To achieve fiscal sustainability in the medium term, BiH needs to aldress the imbalance between
domestic budgetary resources and expenditure responsibilities. Only with adequate fiscal adjustment will
BiH be able to gradually stabilize the budget deficit at a noderate level, as shown in Table 1, that would
ensure fiscal sustainability and the country's access to external financing in the medium tern.
11.   Balance of Payments Outlook. Exceptional external financial assistance has made a major
contribution to BiH's balance of payments picture. In addition to generous humanitarian assistance, the
international community made commitments during 1996 of US$1.8 billion, mainly on a grant basis, for
BiH's reconstruction. Total disbursements of grants and loan aid in 1996 have been estimated at over
US$1 billion, equivalent to 33 percent of GDP.  For 1997, donors made disbursements of about
US$0.9 billion, equivalent to 21 percent of GDP.
12.   Considerable additional external financing is needed to normnalize BiH's relations with external
creditors, and to cover the requirements of the reconstruction program. This normalization involves both
clearing outstanding arrears and restructuring remaining debts. After having normalized its financial
relations with the IMF and the World Bank in 1995 and 1996, respectively, BiHl is expected soon to
regularize its relations with other multilateral, bilateral, andcommercial creditors. Towards this end, a debt
rescheduling agreement was signed between BiH and the London Club creditors at the end of 1997. The
Agreement provides the country with a debt stock reduction equivalent to about 80percent on a net present
value basis. Several conditions have to be met for a Paris Club rescheduling to occur, including putting into
place the IMF Stand-by Arrangement.
13.   Near-term financing requirements consist mostly of reconstruction funding and debt service
obligations for those debts that have already been restructured. In 1998/99, total financing requirements are
estimated to average US$3.4 billion per year. After taking into account anticipated reconstruction assistance
(averaging to US$1.4 billion per year), official and private flows (averaging to US$0.4 billion per year),
arrears clearance and debt relief to creditors (totaling to about US$2.2billion), there will be a remaining
financing gap of about US$0.25 billion in 1998 and US$0.16 billion in 1999 which is expected to be filled
by balance of payments support from the IMF, the Bank (including the proposed Credit of US$0.06 billion
in 1998), other multilateral institutions and bilateral donors.
III. BACKGROUND AND ISSUES IN PUBLIC FINANCE
A. Dayton Rules on Public Finance Structure
14.   The Dayton Accords provide a broad framework for building a new governance structure in BiH.
Under the Accords, BiH is a sovereign state consisting of two Entities, the Federation (ofBosniacs and
Croats) and Republika Srpska, with a State government responsible for international relations and inter-
Entity coordination. Key economic institutions and policies envisaged at the State level include a central
bank (organized as a currency board in its first six years) and a new currency, customs and trade policies,
international financial relations (including servicing of international debts and debt management) and
coordination in telecommunication and transport. Unless mandated otherwise by the State Parliament, the
State does not have the capacity to tax or collect customs duties on its own. The budgetary needs of the
State are to be met in the proportions of two thirds by the Federation and one thirdby Republika Srpska.
15.   The Entity governments have exclusive responsibility in their respective territories over defense,
internal affairs (including police), environmental policies, economic and social sector policies (such as



5
agriculture, industry, and health), refugees and displaced persons, reconstruction programs and justice, tax,
and customs administration. To canry out these responsibilities, each Entity has ownership of the taxes
collected in its territory. But the two Entities have different fiscal structures. The Federation has a three-tier
fiscal system: the Federation government, cantons, and municipalities, with major responsibilities resting
with the cantons. Republika Srpska has a two-tier structure: the Republika Srpska government and
municipalities, with very limited local fiscal authority.
16 .   Modest progress has been achieved in establishing the Dayton-mandated public finance structure at
the State and the Entity levels since 1996. In the Federation, the customs and the payments systems were
reintegrated and the formation of a unified tax administration was initiated. Some progress has also been
achieved in unifying tax policies, and in establishing canton-level fiscal administration. However, separate
policies and practices are still continuing within the fiscal structure of the Federation. The fiscal system of
Republika Srpska has functioned broadly along the lines of the former SFRY system and needs to be
strengthened and reformed. At the State level, the legislative framework for establishing Dayton-mandated
institutions was adopted only in mid-1997. Due to the difficult political circumstances, its implementation
has only just started. In the absence of country-wide institutions and policies, the Entities have had minimal
coordination in key areas of economic management.
B. Need to Control the Expenditure Level
17.   Public expenditures in 1996/97 totaled about 70 percent of GDP, and will remain high in 1998.
While fiscal stability has been maintained thanks to donor support, the present level of public expenditure, as
a percent of GDP, is excessive by most norms and is not likely to be sustainable in the medium-term once
the extraordinary level of donor assistance phases down. On the other hand, additional pressure on fiscal
expenditure is rising rapidly, even in the short run. Chief among these are: (i)return of refugees and the
impact this is having on the demand for services such as health care, education and physical infrastructure;
(ii) domestic liabilities and claims originating from numerous promises made by various authorities to ex-
soldiers, their families, and other socially-disadvantaged groups; and (iii)accumulated stock of foreign debt
that, once restructured, will need to be serviced regularly.
18.   Clearly, over the longer term, BiH needs to constrain public sector expenditure to the levels
appropriate to its stage of development and comparable to those in the region, i.e., in the range of 40-45
percent of GDP. To achieve this, it will need to prioritize expenditure demands among competing claims.
This process will be made easier if the economy is recovering rapidly, thereby creating more room to
maneuver. Public expenditure can rise in nominal terns even when its share in GDP is to be reduced.
C. Issues in Public Finance Reform
19.   Institutional and policy foundations for fiscal management must be firmly laid to prepare BiH for
sustainable recovery and growth. Implementation of the blueprint laid out in the Dayton Accords requires a
major effort of all parties as well as further elaboration of the design of the fiscal structure. In the
Federation, in addition to establishing the canton-level administrative structure,key tasks include: (i) clear
assignment of revenue and expenditure responsibilities across the Federation government, cantons, and
municipalities, (ii)further integration and full operationalization of the institutions that administer the
customs, tax, budget, social security and payments systems, and (iii) promotion of transparency and
accountability of government finance. In Republika Srpska, the key task is to reorganize and reorient
existing institutions in order to facilitate the development of a market economy and to promote transparency
and effectiveness. Together, the two Entities need to develop common policies and procedures ta
(i) ensure financing of the State budget; (ii) establish viable debt management and (iii) harmonize tax and
customs policies, administrative procedures, as well as enforcement capacity.



6
IV. PUBLIC FINANCE REFORM PROGRAM
A. Ensuring Financing of the State to Meet its Mandated Obligations
Current Situation
20.   Based on the parameters set by the Dayton Accords, the Entities agreed on the size and the scope of
the new State administration in June 1997. With technical assistance and pressure from the international
community, the first State budget was adopted by the BiH Parliament at the end of June1997. However,
this budget was not fully implemented during 1997. While the Entities agreed in principle that the
administrative part of the State budget should be financed in the proportion of 2/3:1/3 by the Federation and
Republika Srpska, and the debt service part of the State budget be financed by the Entities on the basis of the
final beneficiaries' principle, the budgets adopted by the Entity Parliaments did not reflect fully these
understandings and requirements. Although agreement was reached between the Entity governments to
amend their respective Budget Laws in order to provide the State with sufficient funding, these amendments
were not actually implemented during 1997.
21 .   The organization of the new State administration, along the lines envisaged in 1997 budget, has
gained a pace since the beginning of 1998 and is expected to be finalized by the end of June. The 1998 State
budget has been formulated taking into account the full expenses associated with running the State
administration. The budget includes an allocation of DM 57 million to finance the State's administrative
structure (Assembly, Presidency, Constitutional Court and Council of Ministers) and three ministries
(Foreign Affairs, Civil Affairs and Communications, and Foreign Trade and Economic Relations) as well as
a debt service budget of DM 126 million.
Issues and Actions to be Taken in Ensuring Financing of the State
22.   Experience so far shows that a much greater effort will be needed to ensure financing for the State
administration to fulfill its responsibilities mandated by the Dayton Accords. To make practical progress on
this front, concrete actions are needed in three areas: (i) the budgets of the State and the Entity governments,
consistent with each other, need to be fully implemented; (ii) a mechanism for a transfer of funds from the
Entities to the State needs to be institutionalized; and (iii)because much of the State's budgetary obligations
relates to servicing BiH's external debt, institutional capacity for debt management needs to be developed in
order to underpin the process of budget management.
23 .   Progress has been made in the formulation of mutually consistent budgets of the State and the Entity
governments. The 1998 State budget includes: agreement on the structure, size, staffing, and functions of
each organ of the State government; agreement on a burden-sharing formula for financing the administrative
cost of the State; and agreement on the principle of financing debt service by the two Entities. To underpin
the State budget, the Entity governments have reflected in their budgets the required budgetary contributions
to the State in accordance with these agreements. The 1998 budgets for the State and the Entity
governments, consistent with these principles, have recently been approved by the respective legislatures.
24.   Actual implementation of the State budget will be greatly facilitated by the institution of a transfer
mechanism that helps ensure a smooth and regular flow of funds from the Entities to the State. As the
experience in 1997 shows, even when the Entities incorporate into their respective budgets the required
contributions to the State budget, it is not sufficient to simply rely on the provisions of the budgets to effect
such contributions.
25 .   The Bosnian authorities have recently completed the design of such a transfer mechanism, and
initiated the necessary preparation in order to fully effect the transfer mechanism by the end of June 1998.
The key features of the transfer mechanism are as follows: (i) transfer will be made on a monthly basis; (ii)



7
each transfer will be in the amount of 1/12 of the annual budgeted contribution by the Entities to the State's
administrative budget, and 1/12 of the annual debt service of the Entities; (iii) transfers for the State
administrative budget and for the servicing of extemal debt will be deposited into a general budgetary
account and a dedicated debt service account, respectively, in the new Central Bank of Bosnia and
Herzegovina (CBBH), with a sub-account for each Entity; and (iv) authorization for transfers by the Entities
to the State will be effected automatically through a standing instruction from their respective Ministries of
Finance to their payments bureau, without requiring monthly authortization for each transfer.
26.   The authorities agree that an enhanced financing mechanism should be designed for the longer term.
Such mechanism should meet the following criteria: (i)contributions by each Entity are sufficient; (ii)
transfers are predictable and regular throughout the year; and (iii)burden-sharing between the Entities is in
conformity with the criteria agreed upon. These objectives are perhaps best met by introducing new State
taxes or providing the State with a fixed percentage of specific tax revenues of the Entities, such as customs
revenue. There are several advantages of basing such a system on customs revenues: (i) the customs
policies will be eventually unified for the entire country under the Dayton Accords; (ii)the customs
administrations of the Federation and RepublikaSrpska are working relatively smoothly, with technical
assistance and supervision of the EU; and (iii) the trade tax base will be a reasonably broad representation of
the economy, making revenues less sensitive to fluctuations in individual markets.
27.   Finally, as mentioned earlier, the efficient management of the State's financial obligations will hinge
critically on the smooth functioning of the debt management system since much of the State budgetary
expenditure is linked to external debt service. To ensure that debt service resources are used for their
intended purposes, transparent operating and control procedures must be in place for the operation of the
debt service account. Furthermore, to ensure adequate funds for debt service payments, building up reserves
and establishing a reserve threshold for the account will also be necessary. The State Law on Foreign Debt
adopted in June 1997 lays the foundation for establishing an effective debt management system in BiH, and
the Entities are in the process of finalizing their draft Debt Laws in order to implement the provisions of the
State Law, as outlined in IV.B below.
Actions to be Supported by the PFSAC
28.   The proposed operation will support the design and implementatbn of key measures to ensure
financing of the State budget. Prior to Board presentation, the authorities will: (i) have prepared the first
drafts of the State and Entity budgets for the 1998 fiscal year; (ii) have agreed on the basic features of the
transfer mechanism; and (iii) have established a dedicated State debt service account with the new Central
Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina
29.   Prior to second tranche release, BiH will have. (i) adopted the State and Entity budgets that are
mutually consistent; (ii) established a general budgetary account with the new Central Bank of Bosnia and
Herzegovina; (iii) adopted all the necessary measures regarding operation of the transfer mechanism; and
(iv) commenced regular transfer offunds from the Entities to the State.
30.   As a further step towards preparing for a longer-term State financing mechanism, the authorities
will take steps for the implementation of the uniform foreign trade regime across the country. The recently
approved interim Foreign Trade Law and Customs Policy Law provide the necessary framework. The
Entities will revise their laws to conform with the State legislation. Similarly, a common external tariff
structure will need to be developed and implemented. The draft State customs code, based on the EU
customs code, is expected to be ready for presentation to the Council of Ministers by mid 1998. The
proposed PFSAC will support the efforts of the authorities and donors through the provision of technical
assistance in the design and implementation of the new trade and customs regime for BiH. The assistance
which has been provided during the preparation of this Project will continue during implementation.



8
Financing for the technical assistance is being provided through a Policy and Human Resources
Development (PHRD) grant.
B. Establishing a Viable Debt Management Structure
Current Situation
31 .   Since the outbreak of the war, BiH's outstanding external debt grew rapidly, as no debt service
payments were made and arrears and penalties accumulated. At the end of 1997, BiH's debt stood at
US$4.4 billion, of which 54 percent were arrears accumulated during the war. The debt burden reached
unsustainable levels: in 1997, the debt-to-GDP ratio stood at 100percent, and the scheduled debt service-to-
exports ratio at 40 percent. Obligations inherited from the SFRY constitute the majority of the outstanding
debt of BiH.
32.   Since the signing of the Dayton Accords in December 1995, BiH achieved some progress in
resolving its debt problem and establishing debt management institutions: arrears to the Bank and the IMF
were cleared, allowing the start of reconstruction assistance and debt rescheduling negotiations; the Entities
agreed on the principles for the allocation of the old debt; a debt unit was established in State Ministry for
Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER); the State Law on External Debt was adopted; and both
Entities initiated preparatory work on their own Laws on External Debt. In December31, 1997, an
Agreement was signed with the London Club on the rescheduling of BiH's external debt to commercial
banks. The Paris Club is expected to proceed swiftly with the rescheduling of BiH's debt owed to official
creditors, once the Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF is approved.
Issues and Plans in Creating a Debt Management System
33 .   BiH's access to external financing, including eventual access to capital markets will be determined
to a large extent by an early resolution of its existing debt problem and the effectiveness of new borrowing
arrangements. This requires clarifying the responsibilities for foreign borrowing between the State and the
two Entities and ensuring the automaticity and transparency of external debt servicing through efficient legal
and institutional arrangements.
34.   The State Law on External Debt defines the responsibilities of the State and the Entity institutions in
external debt management and the coordination mechanisms between them. It qualifies the State's external
obligations as the only category of sovereign debt in BiH, giving it seniority over external borrowing by the
Entities. The State is allowed to borrow on behalf of the Entities or, with Parliamentary approval, on its
own, and to issue payment guarantees for the borrowing of its constituent Entities or any other public or
private sector institution in BiH. The State is the obligor for BiH's portion of the old SFRY debt and a
member of International Financial Institutions (IFIs). Since the State has practically no independent fiscal
base, the legislation provides for the cross-indemnification of State borrowing by the Entities. The Entities
are also allowed to borrow by themselves, but such borrowing has subnational status, like any other local
government borrowing.
35 .   The immediate challenge is to implement the provisions of the State Law. The separation of
borrowing, debt servicing responsibility, and fiscal authority creates potential for afree rider problem
whereby if one Entity defaults, both the State's and the other Entity's ability to borrow could be jeopardized.
The free rider problem may be contained only through credible and transparent institutional arrangements
between the parties concerned in ensuring a smooth flow of resources to the State for external debt
servicing. To provide the State with adequate funds on a regular basis, the Entities are committed to move
rapidly in implementing the State finance mechanism as described in the previous section.



9
36.   Further steps must be taken to create the institutional setup outlined by the State Law on External
Debt. The Law provides for the establishment of a State Office of External Debt Management (OEDM),
that should perform the following functions: (i) loan negotiation; (ii) monitoring of utilization and repayment
of government and govemment-guaranteed loans; and (iii)debt policy formulation and forecasting. A
special debt management office exists at the State level since 1996. The effectiveness of this office will be
enhanced if its mandate and organizational structure within the State MFTER is clarified. To this effect, the
MFTER is currently developing the functional responsibility of the office. Likewise, Entity Ministries of
Finance need to strengthen their more recently established debt management units (DMUs), to assure a
smooth flow of debt service payments to the State and to control their own borrowing. With external
assistance, including that from the Bank, the Entities have initiated this work.
37.   To facilitate the implementation of the State Debt Law, the key principles of the law should be
complemented by the preparation and implementation of the Entity Debt Laws, and the following
regulations: (i) the Statutes of the State OEDM and the Entities' DMUs that would detail their functions and
work processes; (ii)the Coordination Agreement between the three agencies, that would clarify the
information-sharing and decision-making procedures; and (iii)the Agent Agreement between the State
MFTER and the CBBH that would establish clear operating procedures for the State debt servicing account.
As a first step towards this end, the Agent Agreement was concluded in April 1998 while the other two
regulatory arrangements are expected to be finalized by July 1998. In addition, to ensure the quality of
information used for sovereign decision-making and to build trust between the parties, a unified public debt
database (the Central Debt Ledger of BiH) must be created, and minimum disclosure/debt reporting
standards agreed upon between the State OEDM, the Entities' DMUs, and other relevant agencies. The
establishment of such a database that will link the State OEDM, the Entities' DMUs, and the CBBHhas
been initiated in February 1998.
38 .   Further, a long-term borrowing policy needs to be developed that would harmonize the State and the
Entities' borrowing plans with the country's ability to service external debt. To this end, the State Debt Law
provides for the establishment of a high-level Debt Advisory Committee with representation from all State
and Entity agencies involved in managing external debt of BiH. This Committee's prototype was created in
1996, which has since tackled the most urgent matters of preparing legislation and debt renegotiation. As
relations with external creditors are regularized, this Committee shall become the main instrument for policy
coordination, ensuring that BiH keeps its borrowing operations within fiscally prudent and sustainable limits.
39.   Improvement of BiH's debt management capacity requires significant investment in its human
capital. Currently, BiH has a very modest national debt management cadre. The State debt management
office and the Entities' DMUs must be further strengthened with staff professionally trained in accounting,
legal, and macroeconomic aspects of external borrowing and debt servicing. The authorities have asked the
World Bank to continue to provide its assistance in this area under the proposed PFSAC.
Actions to be Supported by PFSAC
40.   The proposed operation will support the development of a strong external debt management
capacity in BiH. The most immediate requirement for achieving this is to implement the provisions of the
State Law on External Debt as regards the creation of a debt servicing mechanism and institution-building.
Board presentation will be conditioned on the operationalization of a special debt service account at the
State level with the transparent operating procedure adopted by the State MFTER Additionally, it is also
expected that the work on the preparation of the Entity debt laws will have been finalized.
41.   Before the second tranche release, the Entity Parliaments will have adopted and started the
implementation of the Entity Debt laws. It is also expected that by the second tranche release: (i)debt
information flows between the State and the Entities have been regularized, including the adoption of the



10
Coordination Agreement; (ii) the Statutes of the debt management agencies have been adopted; and (iii) a
program has been developed by both the State and the Entities to strengthen their respective debt
management capacity.
42.   The technical assistance which has been provided during the preparation of this operation will
continue during implementation.  The proposed operation will assist the recently established debt
management units in the State MFTER and the Entities' Ministries of Finance to clarify their mandates in
transaction management and policy formulation; to elaborate procedures for interagency coordination; to
help prepare an Agency Agreement between the State debt management office and its agent bank; and to
help develop job descriptions for the debt offices' staff. The proposed operation will also focus on the
technical tasks that would ensure the robustness of debt servicing arrangements, assisting the Bosnian
authorities in establishing the Debt Ledger of BiH and developing procedures for monitoring and reporting
external debt of BiH.
C. Reforming Intergovernmental Finances within the Entities
Current Situation
43.   The Dayton Accords envisage different intergovernmental arrangements in the Federation and
Republika Srpska. In the Federation, the canton level administration is being developed as the major
instrument of government to accommodate different demands for services and to allow for greater local
control over setting service levels. A more centralized approach is operating in Republika Srpska.
44.   Some progress in establishing the cantonal structures has been achieved in the Federation since the
adoption of the law creating cantons in June 1996. All cantons now have governors and cantonal
assemblies; first budgets were formulated and adopted by all cantons in 1997, including for the two mixed
cantons; and 1998 budgets have been prepared by the majority of the cantons. The adoption of the Law on
Allocation of Federation Revenues in January 1997 facilitated this process. The revenue and expenditure
assignments, both in 1997 and 1998, have generally followed the structure laid out in the new Federation
Constitution. Customs and excise tax revenues are assigned to the Federation Government and the
remainder of the revenues, mainly from sales, profits, and wage taxes, are assigned to the cantons and
municipalities. The Federation budget anticipates relatively little service delivery responsibility for the
Federation government. Cantons have responsibility for education. Service delivery for functions such as
health, social assistance and police is mostly a cantonal responsibility, with each canton determining the
relative role to be played by the canton versus the municipalities. Cantons will receive about 60percent of
total public revenues and municipalities will receive about 20percent of the revenues from canton taxes to
meet their expenditure responsibilities.
45 .   Republika Srpska uses a tax sharing system with its municipalities that is similar to the one between
the Federation cantons and municipalities. The Republika Srpska municipalities receive about lOpercent of
tax revenues (mainly from sales, wages and profit taxes) and the remaining revenues go to the central
Republika Srpska budget. The Republika Srpska government essentially delivers all services while the
municipalities are responsible for limited functions such as solid waste collection, and for utility services that
are delivered through off-budget companies.
Issues and Plans in Reforming Intergovernmental Financial Arrangements
46.   Further clarification is needed in determining intergovernmental expenditure responsibility and
revenue ownership for the Federation and Republika Srpska. Due to the Federation's more complicated
structure, issues in intergovernmental finance are relatively more significant in the Federation than in
Republika Srpska.



I 
47.   The actual degree of expenditure devolution in the Federation remains unclear. Particularly in
health, education, defense, and social welfare, agreement must be reached on the respective responsibilities
of the Federation government and cantons. Most health services will be provided by the cantons, but the
role and the financing sources of large health care units remain unclear in the existing budget. Similarly,
education is mostly a cantonal issue, but the sources of financing for higher-education institutions still need
clarification. The problem is more significant for defense and social welfare, in part because a portion of
their financing remains off-budget. Defense, although assigned to the Federation government, is also being
financed by some cantons and municipalities. Social welfare, where joint responsibility is established by the
Federation and the cantons, is also being financed by municipalities in some instances. Responsibility for
these expenditures must be clarified, and expenditures properly accounted for so that the full costs to the
public sector can be appropriately reflected.
48.   There exists a large mismatch between revenue capacity and expenditure responsibility.  For
example, the current system allocates significant revenue to the Federation, but holds the cantons
responsible for most service delivery. A mechanism needs to be put in place to reconsider revenue
assignments every several years to ensure that revenue availability is consistent with expenditure
responsibility. A related issue is which level of government should be responsible for meeting costs of
reconstruction and refugee return. Some parts of the Federation suffered more severe damage than others
and face higher burdens in rebuilding public infrastructure and in providing services for the returning
refugees, while revenue capacities to provide those services differ widely among cantons and municipalities.
49.   Federation tax laws assign tax revenues to cantons on an origin basis, e.g., wage taxes are paid
where the worker is employed, profits taxes are paid where firms are headquartered, and sales taxes are paid
where the sale occurs.  Significant imbalances in revenue across areas thus result because of wide
differences in economic activity. Low activity places are able to deliver fewer services, and may be forced
to pay lower public sector wages. To limit the degree of these imbalances, the Federation government needs
to develop mechanisms for redistributing some limited tax revenues. The Federation amended, in October
1997, the Sales Tax Law by shifting the sales tax collection on excisable commodities from the
import/manufacturing point to where the first buyer, after the importer/manufacturer, is located. Another
step would be to develop a set of situs rules that share the revenues between jurisdictions in cases where
some component of the taxable activity takes place in more than one jurisdiction. This could be done, for
example, by sharing the profits tax for businesses operating across multiple cantons. The Federation
government is presently considering developing such an approach.
50 .   Changes in the revenue allocation rules alone will be unable to bring balance between expenditure
responsibilities and revenue capacity across all municipalities and cantons. As a result, large differences in
service availability can be expected at the local level since the Federation provides only a small pool of
revenues that can be used to offset the most egregious differences. Increasing the size of the Federation's
pool for intergovernmental transfers can help reduce these imbalances.
51 .   The Republika Srpska government has initiated a new system for revenue allocation which provides
municipalities with a slightly higher share of tax revenues, depending on the characteristics of the
municipalities. The allocation of revenues is higher for municipalities that are on the border, have high
social problems, have significant damage from the war, or have large numbers of refugees. These
adjustments are a step towards limiting the occurrence of imbalances at the local level, but further changes
may be necessary. There is also a need to consider decentralizing some service functions, especially in
primary education and health clinics. Additional assignment of revenues to the municipal level would
follow any changes in expenditure responsibility.



12
Actions to be Supported by PFSAC
52.   The proposed operation will support the authorities' efforts in developing a sustainable
intergovernmental fiscal structure across BiH. Key issues described above will be the focal point of
discussion. The technical assistance which has been provided through previous operations and during the
preparation of this operation will continue through implementation.
D. Reforming and Harmonizing Tax Policies and Coordinating Tax Collection
Current Situation
53 .   Tax policy in both Entities is characterized by high and distortionary rates, particularly on wages
and foreign trade, and by numerous, arbitrary tax exemptions that have substantially eroded the tax base.
Further, the base and rates for important taxes, such as wage, excise, sales and profit taxes are different
between the two Entities. The differences create incentives for tax avoidance and tax competition. Both
Entities have initiated limited tax reforms aimed at improving policies and strengthening administration, and
some progress has already been achieved in a number of areas.
54 .   The Federation government has evaluated the steps needed to harmonize tax rates, bases, and other
policies and has begun the process of revising tax laws. Federation wage, sales, and excise tax laws have
been adopted, and the new profit and personal income tax laws are under development. The wage tax rate
has been reduced significantly through decreases in pension contributions and in wage withholding taxes.
Exemptions from social contribution payments, previously granted to a number of state-owned firms, have
been eliminated. The Federation Tax Administration has been formed to coordinate tax collection in all
cantons. Efforts are underway to build coordination and cooperation between cantonal offices, which carry
out most administrative functions, and to develop Federation-wide reporting systems.
55.   The Republika Srpska government has also achieved some progress towards reducing the wage tax
through a reduction in pension contributions and in the wage withholding tax. Further, it has formed a
commission to study the potential for sales tax reform in 1998. The Republika Srpska tax administration
continues to operate as a single institution with offices in each municipality. Several initiatives have also
been taken to improve tax collection and strengthen administration. Tax stamps were introduced for
excisable goods, including alcohol and cigarettes. The responsibility for customs administrations and the
financial police was centralized under the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance is updating the
taxpayer registry and is planning to issue new taxpayer identification numbers in 1998.
Issues and Plans in Tax Reform
56 .   Further progress in tax reform is essential to creating an environment that is conducive to growth
and private sector expansion. The most urgent reforms are: (i) continuing to reduce the combined wage
taxes to a level compatible with international standards; (ii)reducing trade taxes by adopting and
implementing BiH-wide low tariff rates; (iii)broadening tax bases to replace the revenue loss that might
have resulted from tax rate reductions; and (iv)harmonizing and coordinating tax policies and
administration between the Entities.
57 .   Ways to broaden the wage tax base include capturing a greater part of employee compensation in
the tax base by closing legal loopholes used to shift compensation to nonwage benefits, eschewing
exemptions, and improving enforcement. Legislation broadening the wage tax base to include some
benefits, such as per diems and food and commuting allowances, above the minimum amount set in the Law
on Wages, was passed by the Federation Parliament in October 1997. This was subsequently followed by
the preparation of the necessary regulations by the Ministry of Finance for the implementation of the



13
amendments. Similar legislation to broaden the wage tax base is expected to be developed and submitted to
the Republika Srpska Parliament during 1998.
58.   Sales tax legislation, passed by the Federation Parliament in October 1997, has improved the sales
tax system by reducing the number of sales tax rates (from five to four), lowering the tax rate on business
purchases of fuel, exempting interest on bank loans, and allocating receipts from sales taxes on excisable
commodities to the first buyer's location. However, continued use of exemptions from sales tax for items
such as home heating and food products (to reduce tax burdens on the low income groups) creates
difficulties in administration and introduces distortionary effects on consumption.
59.   Taxation of imports is excessive in both Entities, due in large part to the very high excise levy
assessed on imports. Harmonizing excise taxes on imported goods with those levied on domestic goods
should be considered. To remove distortion and safeguard revenue, the large number of tax exemptions
should be significantly reduced.  The Federation adopted, in late 1997, legislation removing most
exemptions in the Federation customs law, such as for automobiles and furniture. Republika Srpska is
considering to remove these types of exemptions in the near future.
60.   Among the other measures being considered by the Entities for improving tax policies during 1998
is to incorporate wage withholding into the personal income tax. The corporate income tax is also to be
revised to equalize the tax rate with the top marginal rate under the personal income tax. Further, the
Federation is considering to reduce the number of sales tax rates to a maximum of two, and to adjust the
sales tax on services in line with the maximum sales tax on goods. Finally, the Entities must cooperate to
prevent double taxation, tax avoidance, and distribute inter-Entity excise and sales tax revenues on the basis
of consumption location.
61 .   Coordination between the two Entities on tax policies and tax and customs administration is critical.
Harmonization of tax bases, tax rates and collection points is essential to limiting tax competition and
encouraging free trade. The planned change in Republika Srpska that moves the collection point for the
sales tax on excisable goods from the retail to the wholesale level is a significant step in this direction and
would facilitate coordination with the Federation, which already collects the taxes at this level. Definition of
tax bases for the wage and profits taxes also must be harmonized across the Entities. Administrative
cooperation between the Entities is essential to collecting tax liabilities from taxpayers operating in multiple
jurisdictions.  To achieve this, information sharing systems should be developed between the tax
administrations in the two Entities.
Actions to be Supported by PFSAC
62.   The proposed operation will support the continued development and implementation of tax reforms
across BiH that will address the key issues described above. As an initial step in this direction, by Board
presentation, Republika Srpska will have prepared the amendments to its Sales and Excise Tax Law; and by
the second tranche release: (i) Republika Srpska will have adopted the amendments to its Sales and Excise
Tax Law; and (ii) the Federation will have implemented the amendment to its Wage Tax Law.
E. Initiating Pension Reform
63.   Fundamental reforms in the existing social protection programs for the elderly, the poor, the sick,
and the war veterans and their families are needed in BiH in order to balance resources with the needs of
poverty alleviation, as donor assistance is being phased out. The proposed operation supports the Entities'
efforts to develop a fiscally viable social safety net system, particularly in pension administration which is
facing the most severe crisis.



14
Current Situation
64.   Three pension schemes currently operate in Bosnia and Herzegovina: two separate schemes in the
Federation, covering Bosniac- and Croat-majority areas, and a Republika Srpska scheme. In the Federation,
the Bosniac pension fund is the administrative successor to the prewar Bosnian pension fund and has
maintained the recordkeeping link between past and present. In 1997, the fund was receiving contributions
equivalent to 24.5 percent of gross wages from approximately 200,000 workers and paying pensions to
around 185,000 pensioners.  De facto, the scheme continues to operate under the former Yugoslav
legislation with various exceptions. The pension fund operating in the Croat-majority area receives
contributions equivalent to 17.5 percent of gross wages from about 45,000 workers and pays pensions to
almost the same number of pensioners. This scheme has been regulated by a series of decrees and pays a
flat pension. The pension scheme of Republika Srpska collects a payroll tax of 22 percent of gross wages
from about 145,000 workers and pays pensions to roughly the same number of pensioners. The actual
number of contributors is far less than this given the fact that many finns do not pay taxes and have
accumulated significant arrears.
65 .   During 1996, rapid increase in wages and employment boosted pension revenues in the Bosniac-
majority area, more than compensating for a full seven percentage point reduction in the earmarked pension
tax in March of 1996. In addition, the Federation transferred DM 26 million from the proceeds of donors'
budgetary support to pension funds. Consequently, average net pensions in the Bosniac-majority area rose
from around DM 11 in 1995 to above DM 55 and eventually converged to levels in the Croat-majority area
which remained steady at around DM 75. The average pension in the Federation further increased to more
than DM 100 in 1997. In Republika Srpska, wages and employment and, therefore, the pension tax base,
remained stagnant at low levels due to its relatively slow economic recovery. Pension levels in Republika
Srpska fell further behind those paid to Federation pensioners: the average net pension during 1996 was
about DM 25 and during 1997 was about DM 70. The fund covering the Bosniac-majority area, which
maintains the prewar benefit rules, has the highest ratio of maximum to minimum pension (morethan 8:1 in
1996/97) while the ad hoc benefit formula employed in Republika Srpska also has resulted into a relatively
wide range of pensions (5:1). In the fund covering Bosniac-majority areas, a significant part of the revenues
are being directed to a small number of high-level pensioners, leaving more than half of the elderly in need
of food and other basic assistance.
66.   In both Entities, pension spending was the single largest cash transfer program. In 1997, spending
in the Federation and Republika Srpska represented 5.8 and 3.9 percent of GDP, respectively. Adjusted for
the demographic structure, actual pension spending in BiH, in terms of percentage of GDP, is slightly more
than what international patterns show. This would have been even higher if legally prescribed benefits had
been paid. However, since the beginning of the war, pensioners in the Bosniac-majority areas have received
benefits below the legally prescribed amounts leading to an accumulation of claims (arrears) for unpaid
pensions. Estimates of arrears reached over DM 300 million in the Bosniac majority areas, i.e., more than
the entire amount of the fund spent in 1997. In Republika Srpska, the pension fund accumulated liabilities
on current pension payments occasionally in 1996/97 due to lack of sufficient revenues and, therefore,
pension payments were only made with two-three months lags.
Issues and Plans in Pension Reform
67 .   Pension policy in BiH faces several challenges in the short term. The immediate challenge is to
achieve fiscal sustainability by preventing systemic accumulation of arrears. Policies which might
exacerbate the situation, such as relaxing eligibility criteria for certain special groups (e.g.,soldiers) must be
avoided. This can only be achieved through legislation which redefines legal benefit rules so that statutory
benefits match the benefits actually paid in a particular month. The balance of accumulated arrears must be



15
handled without undermining the already tight recurrent budgets. There is also an immediate need to move
the elderly out of welfare by raising minimum pension levels.
68.   With the assistance of the Bank and the IMF, the Management Board of the Bosniac pension
fund adopted a decision in September 1997 that limits the legal entitlement of pension benefits to what is
actually paid, thus eliminating continued accumulation of pension arrears. Further, to improve the
targeting of pensions, the Board decided to flatten the benefit payments by increasing the minimum
pension, while reducing the ceiling on maximum pension. As a result, the pension payment ratio between
the highest and the lowest has been recently reduced from 8:1 to 6:1. In addition, the Federation Ministry
of Social Protection and the two pension funds have been working together on a new Federation Pension
Law. The new Law incorporates a number of reform measures in addition to legalizing the earlier Board
decision on limiting the legal entitlement to what is actually paid. They include: (i) an increase in the
retirement age to 65 by the year 2003; (ii) an increase in the minimum service period required to retire
from 15 to 20 years; (iii) an increase in the number of consecutive years used as the assessment base for
pension calculations from 10 to 15 years; (iv) an improvement in the indexation method to tie pension
adjustments to the availability of regular pension resources; (v) tightening of eligibility rules related to
survivors; and (vi) tightening of the rules regarding partial disability claims. The Federation government
has submitted this new Law to its Parliament in April 1998 and expects the adoption of the Law to take
place by June 1998. Furthermore, in the Federation, both pension funds have recently completed a new
registration campaign to eliminate fictitious pensioners and to tighten eligibility criteria. As a result,
about 10,000 entitlements were removed, saving over DM 12 million a year.
69.   In Republika Srpska, the pension fund has always succeeded in limiting legal entitlements to what is
actually paid, thus avoiding accumulation of arrears. Furthermore, in order to target pension payments to the
appropriate individuals, the Republika Srpska pension payments have been effected only through direct cash
payments to those entitled, thus avoiding potential payments to fictitious pensioners. However, the levels of
pensions for most pensioners are extremely low, and payments are often postponed.
70.   The decentralized state of public pension provision presents another important challenge. In order
to minimizes the costs associated with having multiple schemes in a small country (highadministrative
costs, potential barriers to labor mobility, limited risk pooling etc.) greater coordination must be achieved
both on the policy and on the administrative level.
71 .   In the Federation, a Working Group was formed to begin the process of harmonization and,
eventually, the unification of the two Federation pension funds. The Group is expected to produce a detailed
plan by the end of August 1998 after which unification is expected to take place by June 1999. Inter-Entity
coordination will also be necessary. Communication between the pension funds operating in the Federation
and the one operating in Republika Srpska has been minimal. There is an immediate need to provide all
pension funds with pension information as contained in the prewar computer database of the BiH Pension
Fund, and, generally, to establish a broader level of cooperation between the Republika Srpska Fund and the
Federation Pension Funds.
72.   In the medium term, more comprehensive pension reforms will have to be considered in BiH.
Reform options such as the introduction of privately funded pensions will have to be studied carefully. The
design of such new system should be based on a careful quantitative assessment of its fiscal and
distributional impact. The governments of both Entities have asked the World Bank to continue to provide
technical support in the process of designing a comprehensive pension reform. Such reform would, in due
course, be supported by future structural adjustment operations.



16
Actions to be Supported by PFSAC
73.   The proposed operation will support the Entity governments' efforts to design and implement
pension policies that will contribute to attaining fiscal sustainability, better targeting of the most vulnerable
pensioners, and greater harmonization of pension policies and administration across the country. Continuing
dialogue between the governments and the Bank is expected in designing short-term pension policy and
preparation for medium-term reform. Prior to Board presentation, the Federation government will
have submitted to its Parliament the new Federation Pension Law which will be adopted and be under
implementation by the time of second tranche release.
74.   Technical assistance will be provided during the implementation of this operation. In particular,
technical assistance by the Bank will: (i) advise the Entity governments on short-term pension policy,
(ii) support the establishment of a Federation Pension Agency which will facilitate coordination of pension
provision across the entire Federation; and (iii)assist and advise the Entity governments in preparing a
comprehensive pension reform program.
F. Reforming the Budgetary Management System
Current Situation
75.   Some initial steps have been taken by the authorities in improving budget preparation and
management since 1996. The 1997 State and Entity budgets were adopted and those for 1998 were prepared
broadly in accordance with the principles laid out by the new Constitution. Within the Federation, progress
in defining revenue assignment, establishment of budget departments in cantons and municipalities, and
adoption of essential accounting information systems all helped to improve budgetary management.
Budgetary reporting and execution in Republika Srpska also improved, although only marginally, as
compared to the previous year's practices.
76.   Despite this progress, the formulation of clear rules and practices for budget planning, classification,
coverage, reporting, auditing, and evaluation remains an important issue to be addressed at all levels of
government. Certain categories of public outlays--such as those with respect to social funds, donor
contributions and military spending--remain off-budget. Recording and accounting for arrears is generally
poor. Furthermore, budgetary frameworks differ widely across governments in BiH.
Issues and Plans in Reforming Budget Management
77.   In order to support the development of a sound fiscal system in BiH, introduction of new budgetary
processes in the following areas is required: (i) defining and classifying public revenues and expenditures in
a consistent and transparent manner; (ii) bringing earmarked and extra-budgetary revenues, particularly from
donor financing, into the budget; (iii)limiting the number of extra-budgetary funds and regulating their
operation by legislation; (iv)implementing adequate reporting standards for spending commitments and
expenditures, and reducing unfunded public expenditure commitments; (v)establishing practices for
expenditure prioritization; (vi)clarifying, and consistently using, improved budget preparation, execution
and reporting practices; (vii) establishing sound procurement practices; and (viii)establishing audit offices,
with sufficient authority and resources. In addition, each government should establish a treasury department
and more advanced budgeting systems to ensure better execution, control and evaluation of budget
outcomes.
78.   As a first priority, revenues and expenditures, including foreign financing, need to be clearly
defined, classified and recorded in the budget at all levels of government. This requires, on the one hand,
addressing the issue of extra budgetary funds (EBFs) and, on the other hand, developing a harmonized
framework for budget classification. The classification framework needs to be harmonized across the



17
governments and must be transparent. The Federation and its cantons have been developing a uniform
classification framework across the Entity. As part of the new framework, the Federation authorities have
brought foreign financing into the budget and will be recording externally financed expenditures in fiscal
year 1998. Republika Srpska already reflects foreign financing in its budget.
79.   Similarly, there is an urgent need for developing a framework within which government
commitments would be systematically recorded, reported and controlled. Budget execution laws specify
sanctions for overspending on a cash basis. However, the requirements for government institutions to record
and report their commitments are weak and arrears are not systematically recorded. Accounting and
budgeting procedures at all levels of government should be revised to include the recording of commitments
and should be brought more into line with internationally accepted accounting principles. The Entity
governments are considering to improve accounting standards in order to better control expenditure
commitments and to obtain more timely and relevant information.
80.   Within the budget process, arrangements for planning, approving, execution, reporting and
evaluation must be improved and institutionalized in BiH. Budgetary planning should start with a thorough
evaluation of the available resources and of the results of the previous year's budget implementation. It
should be based on better estimates of revenues and expenditures and be closely related to government
policy objectives during the budget period. To provide guidance to the budgetary institutions about
spending priorities and desirable work programs, a clear system of strategic expenditure prioritization should
be introduced, including the use of extra budgetary funds. At the sub-Entity level, particularly in the
Federation, a clearer definition of fiscal responsibilities is crucial to budget preparation and to improving
financial control. In particular, the nonbudget resources of budget-funded agencies (fees, receipts and other
income) should be disclosed at the time of budget preparation, recorded during budget execution and more
tightly controlled.
81 .   The Federation is undertaking a comprehensive review of budget management to bring it in line
with international practices. This includes preparing a new organic budget law and improving coordination
in budget preparation and execution between the Federation and cantonal Ministries of Finance. Republika
Srpska, which has a more unified government structure and budget, plans to prepare a new organic budget
law in 1998.
82.   To achieve more efficient use of budget resources, all governments will need to introduce
procurement practices based more on the principle of open competition. The Federation is drafting a new
procurement law reflecting such practices. Republika Srpska has also recently initiated drafting of an
improved law bringing its current procurement procedures more closely into line with international norms.
83 .   Reporting and auditing systems also need to be developed for each level of government including
public disclosure to facilitate information sharing. A first step will be the establishment of an audit office for
each government which would review government finances and report to Parliament. In addition, each
Ministry of Finance would appoint its own inspector in charge of internal audit. Both the Federation and
Republika Srspka are presently considering necessary legislation for establishing external auditing
institutions. Regarding internal audits, the legislatures of both Entities have proposed the appointment of a
budget inspector for their respective Ministries of Finance. The terms of reference for these positions are
expected to be developed and appointments to be made by July 1998.
84.   It is necessary to establish a Treasury Department in each government to improve budget control
and cash management. The treasury, when established, will maintain the exclusive authority for transfer and
spending. The treasury system will also provide core accounting functions for each government. The
Federation government intends to establish a treasury department within the Ministry of Finance and will
gradually introduce a treasury single account and a government financial management information system.



18
In the interim, the Federation Ministry of Finance should have access to all the information of the funds held
by public bodies in the payments bureau. Similar arrangements are being considered by Republika Srpska.
Actions to be Supported by PFSAC
85.   The proposed operation will support the initial design and implementation of a comprehensive
program for improving budget management. The aim of the overall program is to support the achievement
of a better controlled, better managed, more transparent and more accountable system of public financial
management at all levels of government. During the period of PFSAC implementation, the program will
focus on the following aspects: (i) incorporating into the budget of external resources and related
expenditures; (ii) adopting improved budget classification schemes; (iii) recording of arrears on a more
systematic basis; (iv) a review of extra budgetary funds for better budget coverage; and (v) preparatory work
for establishing a treasury system and external government audit. As an initial step toward reforming budget
preparation and reporting, by second tranche release, (i) the State and the Entity governments will have
prepared 1998 budgets that incorporate external cash grants and borrowing for general budgetary
purposes with corresponding expenditures also registered; and (ii) the Federation will have adopted and
started the implementation of the new organic Budget Law and Republika Srpska will have drafted a new
organic Budget Law.
86.   Thereafter, implementation of budget reform  should be continued in the following areas:
(i) improving the Entity Ministry of Finances' control over all nonbudget revenues of budget-funded
agencies, including access to the payment bureau or agent bank accounts held in the name of these agencies;
(ii) establishing a Treasury Department; (iii) introducing improved government accounting standards,
including commitment accounting and stricter controls on arrears; (iv)bringing EBFs within the budget
where appropriate; (v) developing a medium-term expenditure framework to improve budget planning; and
(vi) establishing internal and external government audit.
87.   The assistance which was provided during the preparation of this operation will continue during
implementation. It is also expected that parallel, donor-financed, technical assistance will be continued
during PFSAC implementation. The Bank intends to initiate the preparatory work for the Second Public
Finance Reforn Project that will focus primarily on these issues.
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
88.   The Bank Group's assistance strategy during FY98/99--as outlined in the Country Assistance
Strategy dated July 31, 1997--aims at assisting BiH in moving from immediate postwar reconstruction
towards sustainable recovery and growth. The key objectives of this strategy are: (i)strengthening the
institutions of macroeconomic management; (ii)initiating structural reform measures, particularly in
privatization and banking reforms; and (iii) carrying forward physical reconstruction of the country.
89.   Particular emphasis will be placed on support for developing economic institutions and policies.
Key among these efforts are reforms in fiscal management, including, inter alia, rationalization in
assignment of revenue and expenditure responsibilities, sound external debt management, and establishment
of a sustainable social assistance framework for the most vulnerable. As noted in the CAS, the FY98/99
program includes two public finance reform operations. The proposed PFSAC is the first of these two
operations. It is designed to help BiH implement initial priority refofrm measures in fiscal management and
to prepare the ground for more comprehensive reforms under a second public finance reform operation.



19
B. Credit Amount and Borrower
90.   The proposed IDA credit, in an amount equivalent to US$63 million (SDR 46.2 million), will be
lent to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the State) for a period of 35years, including a 10-year grace period, on
standard IDA terms. The State will onlend, through subsidiary agreements, US$33 million equivalent of the
Credit proceeds to the Federation and US$30 million equivalent of the Credit proceeds to Republika Srpska,
on the same terms of the IDA Credit. The beneficiaries would be Bosnia and Herzegovina (the State), the
Federation and Republika Srpska. Funding for technical assistance required for the preparation of this
operation is being provided through a PHRD grant.
C. Credit Design
91 .   The proposed Credit would provide quick-disbursing funds for fiscal and balance of payments
assistance in support of the government's efforts to reform public finance institutions and policies. The main
elements of the program supported by this operation include: (i)preparation and adoption of the budgets of
the State and the Entity governments, and the development and implementation of a transfer mechanism that
would provide regular and predictable flow of funds to the State budget for meeting its obligations;
(ii) development of debt management capacity in BiH; (iii)administrative reforms to improve efficiency and
transparency of government operations; (iv) initial steps to reform and harmonize tax policies and
administration within the whole BiH; and (v)initial reform of the pension system. In view of the critical
importance of the establishing a functioning fiscal system for the entire country, this operation puts its main
emphasis on assisting Bosnians in implementing the set of laws, adopted in June 1997, that governs the
functioning of BiH as a unified country. Conditionality (as specified in section F) is mostly linked to
institutional, budgetary management and debt management aspects required for the functioning of the
country as a unified State. Other substantive reforms discussed in the previous sections are clearly important
for the operation of an efficient public finance system in the longer term. The Bank intends to support these
reforms in a planned follow-up operation.
D. Administrative Arrangements
92.   The State MFTER is responsible for overall administration of the Credit on behalf of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, the borrower. Each Entity's Ministries of Finance is responsible for administering the pre-
allocated amount of funds of the Credit. Based on the discussions with government authorities, it is
understood that the counterpart funds of the proposed Credit would be used to support fiscal expenditures of
the State and Entity governments, in particular, contributions of the Entities to the 1998 State budget for debt
service obligations, essential social expenditures such as pension payments and minimum income support,
and costs related to institution-building efforts in the areas of debt management, budget management and tax
administration.
E. Disbursement
93 .   The Credit will be disbursed in two tranches to the deposit account of the State at the Central Bank
of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The first tranche (US$33 million equivalent, with Republika Srpska share of
US$18 million and Federation share of US$15 million) would be available upon Credit effectiveness. The
second tranche (US$30 million equivalent, with Federation share of US$18 million, and Republika Srpska
share of US$12 million) would be available upon satisfactory review by the IDA of the implementation of
the adjustment program as a whole and the fulfillment of the specific second tranche conditions as described
in the following section.



20
F. Monitoring Arrangements and Tranche Release Conditions
94.   Implementation of the policy program will be monitored by a Committee composed of the
representatives of the State MFTER and the Entity Ministries of Finance. The Committee will have
responsibility for monitoring and evaluating progress under the various components of the program with
input from participating ministries/institutions. IDA will monitor implementation with the help of the
Committee's reports, and through supervision missions.
95.   Specific conditions for Board presentation of the Credit are as follows:
(a)  Preparation of the draft 1998 State budget, the Federation budget, and Republika Srpska
budget which are satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)  Agreement on a specific mechanism for automatic transfer of funds from the Entities to the
State;
(c)  Establishment and operationalization of a State debt service account with clear operating
procedures;
(d) Republika Srpska government to prepare the amendments to its Sales and Excise Tax Law;
and
(e) Federation government to submit to its Parliament the new Federation Pension Law.
96.   Specific conditions for the second tranche release are as follows:
(a)  Adoption by the respective Parliaments of the 1998 State and Entity budgets and
commencement of their implementation;
(b)  Commencement of regular transfers of funds from the Entities to the State budget;
(c)  Adoption by the Entity Parliaments of the Entity debt laws;
(d)  Federation to implement amendments to its Wage Tax Law; and Republika Srpska to adopt
and implement the amendments to its Sales and Excise Tax Law;
(e)  Federation to adopt and implement the new Federation Pension Law; and
(f)  Federation to adopt and implement the new Organic Federation Budget Law and Republika
Srpska to draft a new Organic Budget Law.
G. Environmental Assessment Requirements
97.   In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD4.01,
Annex E), the proposed operation has been placed in Category "C" and does not require an environmental
assessment.
H. Benefits and Risks
98.   Benefits. The proposed operation will support the measures crucial for further development of a
new government structure at the State and Entity levels, reintegration of the economy, and reorganization of
public finance system. Establishment of an effective and integrated public finance structure will help BiH to



21
conduct sound macroeconomic management, reduce cost to economic transactions, and achieve external
creditworthiness. By pursuing essential reforms in key public finance institutions and policies, the operation
will help the Entities to correct the medium-term imbalance between the revenues and expenditures and set
appropriate priorities for public expenditures. By supporting the development of a public sector which is
more suitable to a market economy, the operation will also contribute to private sector development,
employment creation and poverty reduction.
99.   Risk Management. There will be risks associated with BiH's process of peace and reconciliation,
as has been demonstrated so far since the signing of the Dayton Accords in December 1995. The two
potential risks faced by the proposed PFSAC are a function of this environment: (i) non-implementation
of the agreed measures and reversal of the adopted reforms; and (ii) diversion of the counterpart funds of
PFSAC proceeds for non-priority uses.
100.  Non-implementation of Agreed Measures or Reversal of Adopted Reforms. Several measures
supported by the proposed PFSAC are subject to significant political debate within the country.
Particular among them are the transfer mechanism for State financing, and the argument, by some parties,
for a complete allocation of old debts as a precondition for implementing the external debt law. To
mitigate these risks, the Bank requires the upfront fulfillment of conditionalities whenever possible and
will work closely with the IMF, the US Treasury and others to jointly promote the implementation of the
reform agenda. Technical assistance for debt management and fiscal support provided under the PFSAC
is expected to help reduce any tension between the parties and remove potential bottlenecks to the
implementation of the reform program.
101.  Allocation of PFSAC Counterpart Funds for Non-priority Uses. The PFSAC will be the Bank's
second structural adjustment operation in BiH, after the 1996 Transition Assistance Credit (TAC). One
lesson learned under the TAC concerns the use of the counterpart funds from the Credit proceeds by the
government, a portion of which was channeled to industrial enterprises, a non-priority use of these funds.
Building on the lessons of this experience, in order to mitigate the risk of counterpart funds being used
for non-priority expenditures, PFSAC funds will be included in the 1998 budgets of the Entities and
allocated strictly in line with agreed budgetary priorities.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
102.  I am satisfied that the proposed Credit complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 27, 1998






23
SCHEDULE A
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PROPOSED PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
1. Time taken to prepare:          three months
2. Project prepared by:            Government with IDA assistance
3. Identification Mission:         March/April 1997
4. Preparation Mission             September/October 1997
5. Appraisal Mission:              November 1997
6. Negotiations:                   December 1997
7. Planned Board Presentation:     May 1998
8. Planned Effectiveness:          May 1998
9. Expected Project Completion:    Not applicable
10. Relevant SAR:                  Not applicable



24
SCHEDULE B
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PROPOSED PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS a/
(As of March 31, 1998)
US$ Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                                    (Less Cancellations)
No.       Year        Borrower                      Project                               Loan  Undisbursed
Loans/Credits/Grants
IBRD b/
4038-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan A                      28.6      0.0
4039-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan B                     284.9          0.0
4040-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan C                     307.1          0.0
Total                                         620.6         0.0
Of Which: Repaid                          24.9
Total Now Held by the Bank:              595.7
TFBHCI (Under Disbursement)
TF-0240301996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Recovery Credit                 45.0          1.2
TF-024031 1996           Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Farm Reconstruction        20.0          0.0
TF-0240321996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Water Supply                    20.0          0.5
TF-0240331996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Transport                       35.0          5.8
TF-0240341996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency District Heating d/             20.0          1.4
TF-024035 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation        5.0         0.0
TF-0240401996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Education Reconstruction          5.0         0.0
Total                                         150.0         8.9
IDA
2897-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Education Reconstruction          5.0        0.6
2896-BOS 1 996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation        5.0         5.0
2902-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Housing Repair                  15.0          1.3
2903-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Power Reconstruction            35.6         3.3
2904-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Public Works and Employment     10.0         1.7
2905-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Landmines Clearance               7.5         0.9
2906-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration    7.5       3.7
2914-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transition Assistance Credit              90.0          0.0
N001 -BOS 1 997     Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Industry Re-Start Guarantee     10.0         0.5
N002-BOS 1 997      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Microenterprise/Local Initiatives  7.0       2.6
N003-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Essential Hospital Services               15.0        11.4
0320-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transport Reconstruction II                39.0       30.0
0350-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Education Reconstruction II                11.0         9.5
3028-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Reconstruction Assistance Project         17.0        15.7
3029-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Natural Gas                     10.0        10.0
Total                                         284.6        96.2
a/ The status of these projects is described in a separate Teport on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Consolidation Loans A, B, and C were approved on June 13, 1996 and became effective on June 14, 1996.
C'
Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
di
Disbursements to date are from the Project Start-Up Advance (of which US$2 million is disbursed for Gas).



25
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of November 30, 1997)
Gross Commitments
---------US$ Million-------
Fiscal
Year       Obligor _                        Type of Business                         Loan    Equity
Total
1977     Tvornica Kartona I
Ambalaze Cazin    Timber, Pulp and Paper                             3.79   0.0    3.79
1985     Sour Energoinvest   Industrial Equipment and Machinery                      8.82     0.0
8.82
1997     Horizonte BiH
Enterprise Fund        SME Investment                                     0.0     2.00
2.00
1997     Microentreprise
Bank              Microcredit                                       0.0    0.57   0.57
1997     Sarajevska Pivara    Brewery                                           8.04   0.0    8.04
Total Gross Commitments                          20.65   2.57  23.22
Less: Participations, Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments, Write-offs
and Sales                                   23.50   2.60  26.10
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                20.65    2.57  23.22
Total Undisbursed                                 5.01    2.00   7.01
Total Outstanding                                15.64   0.57  16.21



26
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance   SCHEDULE C
Bosnia  Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    and    Central    Low-
Herzegovina      Asia  Income       Development dlamond,
Population mid-1996 (millions)                         4.1       479    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                             750      2,180    1,750                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (bilbms US$)                                  3.1     1,043    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Popuiation (%)                                                   0.3      1.4      GNP           7                  Gross
Labor force (%)                                                  0.5      1.8                   /
per                 7~primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avaiable since 1989)                             capita         \ /            enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total populaton)                49         65       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       71         68       67
infant mortarity (per 1,000 fiv bhiths)                19         26       41                Access to safe water
Child malnutriton (% of chidren under 5)
Access to safe water (% of populatin)                    ..       ..       78
ileracy (% of populaton age 15+)                        .                                      Bosnia and Herzegovina
Gross primary enroliment (% of schoolage population)              97      104                  Low-income grwp
Male                                                  ..        97      105                             tp
Ferale                                                ..        97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996     1997
GDP (billons USS)                              ..       ..       3.3      4.5      Econoi ratios
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                   ..
Exports of goods & non-factor servFes/GDP      ..       ..      19.8    22.4               Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..
Current account balance/GDP                    ..       ..    -22.5    -23.5
Interest payments/GDP                          ..       ..        ..       ..    Savings                               Inve
Total debUGDP                                  ..       ..    116.7    99.6
Total debt service/exports                     ..       ..      87.1     38.6
Present value of debtGDP                       ..
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..                                      Indebtedness
1976-86  1986-96    1996       1997  1997405
(average annual growth)                                                                     Bosnia and Herzegovina
GDP                                   ..       ..    49.8       30.0     14.1
GNP per capita                        ..       ..    57.0       29.0       ..                  Lowfincome group
Exports of goods and non-factor serv  ..       ..    67.7       47.2     19.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1991      1996     1997
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                    *-      9.5      19.1     19.7     Growth rates of output and investmnnt (%)
Industry                                       ..    43.0       23.1     24.0      s-
Manufacturing                                 ..      ..         ..       ..       o I
Services                                       ..    47.5       57.8     56.3        9t   92   93   94   95   96   97
Private consumption                            ..       ..        ..       ..                     G      --GDP
General govemment consumption                  ..
Imports of goods and non-factor services       ..       ..      68.5    58.1
1976486  1986-96      1996     1997
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    ..       ..        ..       ..    Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Industry                                                                           100
Manufacturing                                 ..     ..          ..       ..      5
Services                                                                                     II :
o- I         I           
Private consumption                            ..       ..        ..       ..        91   92   93   94   95   99   97
General govemment consumption                  ..
Gross domestic investment                      ..       ..      55.5     29.9                Exports t-O-Imports
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..      65.8     10.2
Gross national product                         ..
Note: 1WI data are preliminary estimates.
Large proportion of data are missing due to scant and partial data in case of Bosnia and Herzegovina at present, early, stage of post-war era.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



27
Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1976     1986       1996     1997      Inflatt%
(% change)
Consumer prices '11                                                -25       14      20 
Implici GDP deflator                            ..        ..        ..        ..   -20       92   93
Govemnment finance                                                                  -40
{X of GDP)
Current revenue excluding grants                ..        ..      43.0      43.0         -     GDP def.     CPI
Current budget balance                          ..
Overall surplustdeficit                         ..        ..      -8.0      -7.0
TRADE
1976     1985       1996     1997
(mllions US$)                                                                       Export and import levels (nill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ..        ..       336      570
n.a.                                                                                2,500
n.a.                                           ..        ..        ..        ..     2,000
Manufactures                                   ..       ..          .        ..
Tolal imports (cil)                             ..        ..     1,882    2,198       1,000                   Ji
Food                                           ..        ...W                                 
Fuel and energy                                ..       .._soo____
Capital goods                                                                            e9  92  93  94  Sa   9   97
Export price index (1987=100)                   ..
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..        ..        ..        ..           * Exports    a Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..        .._.._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1996     1997
(millions USS)
Exports of goods and non-factor services        ..        ..       658      997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Imports of goods and non-factor services        ..        ..    2,278    2,587       -21               l _            l _
Resource balance                                 ..       ..   -1,620   -1,589           91  92  93  94  95
Net factor income                              ' ..       ..      -222      -228    -22 
Net current transfers                           ..        ..     1,094      772                                    l i
Current account balance,                                                            -23 
after official capital transfers               ..       ..      -748   -1,046
Financing items (net)                           ..        ..    1,115    1,271       -24
Changes in net reserves                         ..        ..      -367     -225
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)             ..
Conversion rate (AocalUS$)                      ..
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996     1997
(millions USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..       ..    3,884    4,439
IBRD                                                            596       596      Composition of total debt. 1997 (nill. USS)
IDA                                            ..      ..        204      364
Total debt service                              ..        ..       573      385                            A
IBRD                                           ..      ..         37       39                           596
IDA                                            .        ..         0        1
Composition of net resource flows                                                                F       03;
Official grants                               ..        ..        ..        ..               2427          7
Official creditors                            ..E
Private creditors                                                                                          940
Foreign direct investment                     ..
Portfolio equity                              ..
World Bank program
Commitments                                    .        ..                  ..     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ..        ..        ..        ..     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repaymnents                         ..        ..        ..        ..     C - IMP                      G - Short-term
Net flows
Interest payments                             ..
Net transfers
11 Data refers only to the Federation of BiHt. In Republka Srpska, annual percentage change in CPI was 66 in 1996 and 3 in 1997.
Intemational Economics Department



ANNEX I
Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit to Bosnia and Herzegovina
April 27. 1998
Mr. J. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, D.C. 20433 U.S.A.
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
As you know, Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) has been experiencing the beginnings of
economic and social recovery since the signing of the Dayton/Paris Peace Agreement in December
1995. While living standards are still low for many families and economic activity is still atonly
about one third of the prewar levels, the reconstruction effort has already yielded significant results
with signs of the increased production and trade, reduced unemployment, restored services, and
improved infrastructure.
Although we consider no less important the establishment of a new governance structure and
state level institutions, our progress in these areas has been modest. Following the countrywide
elections in September 1996, we established the State Council of Ministers in January 1997. Since
then, work of the Council of Ministers has proceeded, but only slowly. With a long delay, we
adopted, in June 1997, the Quick Start Package (QSP) which contains six laws needed for
establishing a countrywide institutional framework for economic management. These laws govern
formulation and implementation of the State budget, management of external debt, foreign trade,
customs policy, and the central bank and currency. Because of political difficulties that we
experienced in the summer of 1997, we have not been able to implement these laws. Our urgent task
now is to operationalize and implement these laws.
Public finance reform is a key element of the QSP and the cornerstone for establishing a
new governance structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. To this end, we intend to focus our efforts in
the immediate future to implementthe provisions of the relevant economic laws of the QSP to effect
the new public finance structure and to implement fiscal policies that are more appropriate to the
development objectives of the Bosnian economy. Specifically, we intend to: (i) clarify the financing
arrangement for the State administration through the adoption and implementation of the 1998
budgets for the State and the Entity governments, and of the administrative mechanism for the
transfer of funds from the Entities to the State government; (ii) establish an effective debt



management system through the setting-up and operationalization of a special State debt service
account at the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a subaccount for each Entity; the
adoption and implementation of the Entity debt laws; andthe establishment and operationalization of
the State Office of External Debt Management and the Debt Management Units in the Entity
Ministries of Finance; (iii) reform further the inter-governmental fiscal relations within the Entities
by clear assignment of revenue and expenditure responsibilities; (iv) reform and harmonize the
Entity tax systems through the adoption and implementation of a customs tariff law, amendments to
the existing sales and excise taxes, and preparation of new corporate income and personal income
tax laws; (v) control pension expenditures by adopting measures to eliminate continual accumulation
of arrears and tightening eligibility criteria; and, importantly, (vi) introduce budgetary reforms to
enhance transparency and accountability in government finance through introduction of a new
budgetary classification scheme and improving the process for budgetary preparation and
implementation, and through better internal control and external auditing. The following sections of
this letter describe in more detail the Government's planned reform actions in each of these areas.
Ensuring Financing of the State Budget
We recognize that providing stable financing for the State is a prerequisite to establishing a
functioning State administration and a new governance structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In
June 1997, we adopted, for the first time, a budget for the State government. However, his budget was
never implemented because of a number of difficulties. Among them was the lack of financing sources
for the State budget. In the absence of regular provision of funds to the State administration, financing
of the State expenditures in 1997 was mostly on an ad hoc basis.
To ensure a more stable financing for the State in 1998 and beyond, first, we initiated
preparation of mutually consistent budgets for the State and the Entities in 1998. In particular, we
ensured that the State budget has the full backing of the Entity budgets in that the expenditure
obligations of the State are fully covered by the contributions of the two Entities' budgets. We have
completed the preparation of the 1998 draft budgets for the State and the Entity governments,
consistent with each other, and have submitted these budgets to the respective legislatures for approval
which is expected to take place by no later than May 1998.
Secondly, to ensure regular provision of funds from the Entities to the State administration,
we have agreed on the specific arrangements as well as the principle of automatic transfer of funds
from the Entities to the State budget. These arrangements specify that:
(i)    Transfers to the State budget shall be made on a monthly basis. Each transfer shall
be in the amount of 1/12 of the annual budgeted contribution by the Entities to the State's
administrative budget, and 1/12 of the debt service obligations of theEntities. This system
will be implemented as follows:
* Transfers to the State Budgetary Account through this mechanism will be
initiated upon the establishment of the necessary accounts in the Central Bank of
Bosnia and Herzegovina (CBBH) and specification of the underlying operating
procedures (see item (ii) below). Until decisions and agreements to this effect
are finalized, the Entities will transfer their monthly contributions--equivalent to
1/12 of the annual amount in accordance with the 1998 Budget Execution Laws
of State of BiH--to the State administrative budget according to their existing
practices;
2



* Transfers to the Entity subaccount in the State Debt Service Account will cover
debt service obligations to all creditors with whom there has been a
normalization of external debt,as well as for the new obligations. At this stage,
the Entities are in the process of exchanging information and documentation with
the State Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations (MFTER) to clarify
the 1998 payment schedule for these creditors.   This information and
documentation is currently available only for the World Bank and the IMF for
which automatic monthly payments have been started as of April 1, 1998. The
debt service obligations for the other creditors will be included in the new system
of monthly payments as similar information and documentation is collected and
accepted by the Entities. We shall have finalized this work by no later than the
end of June 1998;
(ii)    Transfers for the State administrative budget and for the servicing of external debt shall
be deposited into the general State Budgetary Account and into the dedicated State Debt Service
Account, respectively, in the CBBH, with sub-accounts for the Entities. As a first step towards
this end, we have created, in March 1998, a dedicated State debt service account in the
CBBH with a subaccount for each Entity. To ensure transparency and effectiveness, we have
also agreed on a set of operating procedures for this account and concluded an Agent
Agreement between the State MFTER and the CBBH in April 1998. We will have created a
similar, general State budgetary account with a subaccount for each Entity by June 1998.
The accounts in the Central Bank will be subject to regular auditing by independent auditors;
and
(iii)   The Entity Ministries of Finance shall provide a standing instruction to their
respective Payments Bureau to make monthly transfers from their budget account held in the
Bureau into their respective subaccounts in the CBBH automatically, without requiring
subsequent monthly authorization for each transfer.
In the longer term, we would seek to further improve the State financing system to ensure a
more stable financing of the State budget. We would explore all options to achieve this objective.
Establishing a Viable Debt Management Structure
We have made progress in resolving the debt problem inherited from the past and in
establishing sovereign debt management institutions. Arrears to the World Bank and the IMF were
cleared, allowing the start of reconstruction assistance and debt rescheduling negotiations. A State
Law on External Debt was adopted in June 1997. Other achievements to date include: (i) agreement
by the Entities on the principles for the allocation of the old debts; and (ii) the signing of an
Agreement with the London Club creditors on the rescheduling of BiH's commercial bank debts,
which gave Bosnia and Herzegovina a debt reduction of more than 80 percent of its net present value.
The immediate challenge that we face is to implement the provisions of the StateLaw on
External Debt. As indicated in the previous section, we have already initiated this process by
establishing a special debt service account at the CBBH, with subaccounts for the Entities, into which
the Entity governments will channel resources and from which debt service payments will be made.
This account will be operated with a clear set of operating, control and auditing procedures, as
specified by the Agent Agreement between the State MFTER and the CBBH. We are also preparing
a Federation Debt Law and a Republika Srpska Debt Law, that incorporate the debt management
mechanisms and the procedures for automatic revenue transfer for the purpose of external debt
3



service. The Governments of the Federation and Republika Srpska will begin implementing the laws
by no later than the end of June 1998.
Another immediate challenge we face is to establish and operationalize the institutional
setup for debt management. At this time, the State Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic
Relations has three Departments that deal with aid and debt management. To be fully effective, the
State's debt management mandate must be consolidated within one office and streamlined. To this
end, we will consolidate the existing departments and establish a central State Office of External
Debt Management (OEDM), as mandated by the State External Debt Law. By July 1998, we shall
have prepared a statute for this office that will detail its functions and work processes. Likewise,by
July 1998, both Entities shall have strengthened the Debt Management Units (DMUs) in their
respective Ministry of Finances (MOFs) and shall have prepared their Statutes. A regular exchange
of detailed information between the Entities and the State on debt will also need to be instituted. To
ensure consistency and quality of external debt data, we have initiated, in February 1998, the
establishment of a unified public debt database (Central Debt Ledger) that will link the State OEDM,
the Entities' DMUs, and the CBBH. This Debt Ledger is being established on a common system
platform. In addition, we will conclude, in June 1998, a Coordination Agreement specifying the
procedures for information sharing and policy coordination among the parties concerned. Finally,
we recognize that the debt management system needs a critical mass of specialists to perform legal,
accounting and macroeconomic work for efficient borrowing and debt servicing. By July 1998, we
shall have adequately staffed all three debt management offices and shall have arranged debt
management training through specialized courses, internships and study tours.
The State External Debt Law provides for the establishment of a high-level Debt Advisory
Committee that would bring together for policy discussions all State and Entity agencies involved in
managing sovereign external debt. In 1996 we have already created a prototype of this Committee,
that focuses predominantly on the renegotiation of the external debt inherited from the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY). As the relations with external creditors are regularized,
this Committee will serve as a forum for borrowing policy consultations, assuring that BiH as a
whole and each Entity in particular keeps its borrowing operations within fiscally prudent and
sustainable limits. We are planing to proceed with the creation of the Debt Advisory Committee by
July 1998. The Committee will subsequently initiate the formulation of a long-term policy
framework for external public borrowing.
Reforming Intergovernmental Finance Within the Entities
The Dayton Agreement envisages different intergovernmental arrangements in the
Federation and Republika Srpska. In the Federation, the canton structure is being developed to
allow for greater local control over setting service levels. A more centralized approach is operating
in Republika Srpska.   Due to the Federation's more complicated structure, issues in
intergovernmental finances are relatively more significant in the Federation than in Republika
Srpska.
The Federation Government has made progress in establishing its new governance structure
since the adoption of the law creating cantons in June 1996. The basic canton structure has been
established with the appointment of governors and cantonal assemblies. In 1997, all cantons,
including the two mixed cantons, adopted their first budgets. Adoption of the Law on Allocation of
Federation Revenues in January 1997 facilitated this process. Most of the cantons have prepared
their draft 1998 budgets which are expected to be adopted before the end of May 1998. Revenue
and expenditure assignments, both in 1997 and 1998 budgets, generally follow the structure laid out
in the new Constitution.
4



We recognize the need for further clarifying intergovernmental expenditure responsibility,
particularly, in education, health, defense and social welfare. As an initial step in this direction, we
recently clarified education as a cantonal responsibility in accordance with the Constitution. The
next step will be to clarify, during 1998, the sources of financing for higher-education, so that
cantonal expenditures can be set appropriately. We will follow a similar approach in determining
the role and the financing sources of large health care units to enhance the health service capacity of
cantons. We are also considering clarifying respective responsibilities of the Federation and cantons
in defense and social welfare, so that the full costs of these services to the public sector are made
explicit and suitable priorities for overall expenditures are set in the respective budgets.
As a further aspect of reform efforts to support the development of a sound Federation fiscal
system, we anticipate developing a mechanism to reconsider revenue assignments every several years
with a view to ensuring that revenue availability to cantons is consistent with their expenditure
responsibility. A particular issue we intend to address in 1998 is to determine allocation of
responsibilities and revenues for meeting costs for refugee return and reconstruction. Some parts of the
Federation face higher burdens in rebuilding public infrastructure and in providing services for the
returning refugees, while revenue capacities to provide those services differ widely among cantons and
municipalities. We recognize the need for limiting this imbalance by introducing necessary measures
as the new fiscal structure evolves.
In addition, we plan to improve the distribution of tax revenues among cantons in order to
make it more consistent with the principle of attributing revenues to where the actual economic activity
takes place. To this end, we already amended, in October 1997, the Sales Tax Law by shifting the
collection point of sales tax to the cantons where the first buyer, after the importer/manufacturer, is
located. We further plan to develop a set of situs rules that will govern the sharing of revenues between
the jurisdictions in situations where taxable activity takes place in more than one jurisdiction. Efforts
are underway to initiate this work on the profit tax in 1998.
In Republika Srpska, we changed the rules on revenue allocation to provide municipalities
with a larger share of tax revenues, with specific shares in each region set on the basis of the needs
and characteristics of the individual municipalities. We are also considering the possibility of
decentralizing provision of some services. Any changes in expenditure responsibility will be
matched by assignment of adequate revenues to the appropriate level.
Reforming and Harmonizing Tax Policy and Coordinating Tax Collection
In tax policy and tax administration, we need to reduce taxes on wages and foreign trade,
strengthen administration in both Entities, and initiate and enhance cooperation between the two
Entities in tax policy and administration for mutual benefits. The Federation Government has taken
significant steps to harmonize, within the Federation, tax rates, bases, and policies, and has begun
the process of adopting or revising all major tax laws. The Federation laws on wage tax, sales tax,
and excise tax have been adopted; the Federation laws on personal income tax and corporate income
tax are being prepared and are expected to be adopted in 1998. With the introduction of these laws,
the Federation will have a unified framework for taxation among all ten cantons. In the Federation,
the tax rate on wages has been reduced and exemptions granted to large firms for social contribution
payments have been eliminated. More recently, the Federation also reduced the number of sales tax
rates (from five to four). A unified Federation Tax Administration has been created by merging the
old Croat and Bosniac tax collection systems. Efforts are underway to enhance coordination and
cooperation between cantonal offices, which carry out most administrative functions, and to develop
5



Federation-wide reporting systems. Additional ongoing efforts include amendments to the wage tax
law to reduce the number of social benefit payments eligible for wage tax exemption.
In Republika Srpska, wage tax was also reduced through a reduction in pension
contributions and in the wage withholding tax. The government formed a commission to study the
potential for sales tax reform in 1998. Several initiatives have been taken to improve tax collection
and strengthen tax administration, including the use of tax stamps on excisable goods such as alcohol
and cigarettes. The Republika Srpska Ministry of Finance is updating the taxpayer registry and
plans to issue new taxpayer identification numbers by July 1998. The Government has recently
reorganized the management of the customs administration and the financial police, and placed them
under the Ministry of Finance.
Coordination of tax policies and tax administration between the two Entities is critical to
avoiding harmful tax competition and tax evasion. Harmonization of tax bases, tax rates, and
collection points is one means of limiting tax competition and encouraging free trade. Republika
Srpska has recently prepared amendments to its Sales and Excise Tax Law that will move the
collection of excise and sales taxes on excisable goods from retail to the import/wholesale point,
which will facilitate coordination with the Federation. Republika Srpska plans to adopt this new
system before the end of May 1998. A similar effort is needed in drafting the personal income and
company profit taxes of the two Entities, and in harmonizing excise and sales tax rates and
exemptions. There is also the immediate need to address taxation on inter-Entity sales by designing
a revenue allocation system that will distribute appropriately the tax revenues on the basis of
consumption location, and that will prevent double taxation or tax avoidance. As a first step in this
direction, a working group has been established to study the necessary amendments to the Entity
sales tax laws. Finally, administrative cooperation between the Entities' revenue collection agencies
is essential to collect tax liabilities from taxpayers operating in multiple jurisdictions. To achieve
this, we expect to develop information sharing systems between the respective tax administrations in
the near future.
Reforming the Pension System
Three pension schemes currently operate in BiH - two separate schemes in the Federation,
covering Bosniac- and Croat-majority areas, and a third scheme in Republika Srpska. Together,
pension schemes in the Federation receive contributions from about 245,000 workers and pay out
pensions to about 230,000 pensioners. The Republika Srpska scheme receives contributions from
about 145,000 workers and pays out pensions to about the same number of pensioners. Contribution
rates on gross wages range from 17.5 percent in the Croat-majority areas to 24.5 percent in Bosniac-
majority areas, with rates at 22 percent in Republika Srpska. The average pension in the
Federation's two pension schemes has been increasing in the last two years, to more than DM 100
per month at the present time. Pension payments in Republika Srpska have recently averaged about
DM 70 per month per person.
The existing pension schemes face several challenges in the short term. First, despite the
rapid increase in the average pension level for some parts of the country, a significant number of the
pensioners in both the Federation and Republika Srpska still receive pensions that are below the
minimum required for subsistence living. Second, owing to financial difficulty, both the Republika
Srpska pension fund and the Bosniac pension fund in the Federation have been late for several
months in making payments to pensioners. Third, the Bosniac pension system which has, until
recently, maintained in its bookkeeping the legally prescribed pension amounts for each pensioner,
has experienced an accumulation of arrears for unpaid pensions, totaling over DM 300 million.
6



The immediate challenge in this area is to achieve fiscal sustainability, to better target the
most vulnerable pensioners, and to initiate cooperation in pension policies and administration across
the country. Efforts have been made in both Entities to address the pension problems.
In the Federation, both pension funds have recently completed a new registration campaign to
eliminate fictitious pensioners and to tighten the eligibility criteria.  As a result, about 10,000
entitlements were removed, saving over DM 12 million a year. The Management Board of the Bosniac
pension fund also adopted and has started implementing a decision in September 1997, that limits the
legal entitlement of pension benefits to what is actually paid, thus eliminating continued accumulation
of pension arrears. Further, to improve the targeting of pensions, the Board decided to flatten the
benefit payments by increasing the minimum pension, while reducing the ceiling on maximum pension.
As a result, the pension payment ratio between the highest and the lowest has been reduced from 8:1 to
6:1. Finally, the Federation Ministry of Social Protection and the two pension funds have been working
together on a new Federation Pension Law. The new Law incorporates a number of reform measures
in addition to legalizing the earlier Board decision on limiting the legal entitlement to what is actually
paid. They include: (i) an increase in the retirement age to 65 by the year 2003; (ii) an increase in the
minimum service period required to retire from 15 to 20 years; (ii) an increase in the number of
consecutive years used as the assessment base for pension calculations from 10 to 15 years; (iv) an
improvement in the indexation method to tie the pension adjustments to the availability of the regular
pension resources; (v) tightening of eligibility rules related to survivors; and (vi) tightening of the rules
regarding partial disability claims. The Federation Government has submitted this new Law to its
Parliament in April 1998 and expects the adoption of the Law to take place before the end of May
1998.
In Republika Srpska, the pension fund has always limited legal entitlement to what is
actually paid, thus avoiding accumulation of arrears. Furthermore, in order to target pension
payments efficiently, the Republika Srpska pension payments have been effected only through
direct cash payments to those entitled, thus avoiding potential payments to fictitious pensioners.
However, the levels of pensions for most pensioners are extremely low, and payments are often
postponed.
The decentralized structure of public pension provision presents another challenge. To
minimize the costs associated with having multiple schemes in a small country (e.g.,
high administrative costs, potential barriers to labor mobility, limited risk pooling),the two Entities
intend to improve and enhance coordination between pension schemes in both policy and
administration. The Federation has already started this process by forming a Working Group to
facilitate the process of harmonization and, eventually, the unification of the two Federation pension
funds which is expected to take place by June 1999. While communication between the pension
funds in the Federation and in Republika Srpska has been limited so far, we intend to improve
cooperation and coordination through a tripartite agreement between the three pension funds and
make available to all pension funds information as contained in the prewar computer database of the
Bosnia and Herzegovina Pension Fund.
Reforming the Budgetary Management System
As part of the process of establishing new governance structures across BiH, we have made
progress towards improving budget management since 1996. The 1997 budgets for the State,
Entities and sub-Entity budgets in the Federation were adopted and those for the 1998 were drafted
in broad accordance with principles laid out by the new Constitution. The Federation has established
the legal basis for providing revenue assignments between the Federation government and the
cantons, establishing budget departments in each canton and mnunicipality for budget preparation and
7



execution, and creating essential accounting information systems to support the budget process.
Budgetary reporting and execution in Republika Srpska also improved as compared to the previous
year's practices.
We recognize the need for improved budget systems to help us to allocate scarce resources
more effectively, and to support and control the operations of government. We, therefore, intend to
review budget management at all government levels, and where necessary to make changes. The
development of adequate budgetary systems will be crucial to the maintenance of financial stability
and to the viability of new governance arrangements. However, the budgetary framework differs
widely across governments in BiM. Therefore, the speed and content of reform will differ from case
to case.
Improving Budget Classification. We have identified several areas where initiating actions
are called for. Chief among these areas are the improvement of budget classification and coverage.
The Federation has already initiated a program to address these issues by developing a new
classification scheme, consistent with the IMF's Government Financial Statistics (GFS) framework,
which has been introduced by the Federation and most cantonal governments in the preparation of
the 1998 budgets. In addition, the Federation has drafted comprehensive amendments to its organic
budget law which is expected to be adopted by July 1998. Republika Srpska wishes to continue to
use a budget classification scheme similar to that used in the former Yugoslavia in the 1998 fiscal
year, while considering to initiate the design of a GFS classification scheme in June 1998 with the
assistance from  international agencies.  For the State, a preliminary identification of budget
management needs appears in the law on 1998 budget execution. However, a need for a fuller
organic budget law is recognized and drafting this law will be given priority.
Enhancing Budget Coverage. We see extra-budgetary funds (EBFs) and off-budget funds as
potential problem areas, requiring review and subsequent action with the objective of optimizing the
use of budget resources. We appreciate that EBFs are needed to the extent that they can be properly
justified. Even then, they need to be self-financing. In some cases, they will have to be further
regulated by legislation. A key aspect of that legislation will be to ensure that government will not
cover any deficits incurred by EBFs. We will initiate drafting such legislation to limit the number of
and regulate the EBFs in July 1998. Off budget funds also threaten budget coherence and pose.
problems of control. Their inclusion in the budget will reduce these problems. An important
priority is, therefore, to include public sector revenues along with related expenditures, which are not
adequately recorded in budgets at present. Chief among these are foreign financing and the special
resources of budget entities. As a first step towards enhancing the coverage of our budgets, we have
initiated the process of recording external cash grants and general budgetary borrowing in the 1998
State and the Entity budgets, along with the related expenditures. In parallel, we intend to initiate
preparation of a capital budget by July 1998, including externally financed projects.
Controlling Commitments. We have experienced serious problems during budget
implementation. Revenues sometimes fail to meet expectations and expenditures have to be
reduced. We wish to find a better means of cutting expenditure than across the board cuts. To
address this issue within the budgetary process, we plan to initiate measures designed specifically to
prioritize strategic expenditures and to reduce lower priority expenditures when revenue shortfalls
occur. As one aspect of these policies, during 1998 fiscal year, we will undertake quarterly budget
reviews to monitor actual expenditures against the budget and to reallocate resources as necessary.
8



Also, due to our resource constraints, at times we have been unable to meet expenditure
commitments. This has resulted in the accumulation of payment arrears. However, due to our
existing budgetary practices, whereby budgets are prepared on a cash basis rather than on a
commitment basis, arrears have not been systematically recorded in our budgets. To address this
problem, we intend to take the following steps in the short term: as a first step, we have made
necessary arrangements to record arrears more precisely in 1998 budgets; as a second step, we will
initiate design of a system of commitment accountingand reporting standards by July 1998; and as a
third step, we will initiate, by July 1998, development of necessary procedures to control arrears
which will largely prevent the over commitment of budget allotments. In addition, we will maintain
our policy of settling accumulated areas within the context of the overall arrears settlement policy
through privatization without creating any pressure on the already tight recurrent budgets.
Establishing Regulatory Framework for Procurement. For better use of budget resources,
we consider no less important the establishment of procurement practices based more on the
principle of open competition.  Strengthening procurement, including the establishment of
appropriate institutions and procedures and the training of staff, will take some time.  It is
nevertheless important to initiate early actions in this important area if our resources are to be used
more efficiently. To face this challenge in the shortest possible time, the Federation is already
drafting a new Procurement Law reflecting international practices which is expected to be finalized
by July 1998. Republika Srpska has also recently initiated drafting of an improved law bringing its
current procurement procedures more closely in line with international norms.
Instituting Auditing Procedures and Practices. Another immediate challenge we face is to
achieve greater transparency and accountability. For this we are considering actions to improve
reporting, including public disclosure of information about budget implementation and auditing.
This would facilitate information sharing within and across the Entities and the State and would
strengthen accountability. We plan to establish or strengthenthe institutions responsible for auditing
and to develop audit procedures by the end of 1998. Establishing an external audit office for each
government which would be independent of the rest of government and would report to Parliament,
will be an effective means of achieving stronger accountability. In addition, each Entity's Ministry
of Finance plans to appoint its own inspectors who would conduct internal audits and report to the
Minister of Finance. The State is in the course of defining its functional organization which is
expected to be finalized by June 1998. In this context, the State will also consider an audit office to
develop transparency and trust on the part of the Entities which will fund it.
Establishing Treasury System. Our near-term aim is to establish a treasury department and a
government accounting system using a single treasury account at each level of government. This
would greatly improve the reliability, relevance and timeliness of financial information available to
each level of government. It would also make cash management far more efficient and improve
budget controls generally at the State and the Entity levels. The Federation intends to initiate
establishment of a treasury system in 1998. Republika Srpska is also expected to consider it in 1988.
Likewise, the State will consider the establishment of its own treasury system in the shortest possible
time.
Actions Planned to Further the Budgetary Reforms. Over the next eighteen months period,
we plan to extend our reform efforts by building on the above mentioned preparatory actions. More
specifically, we plan to: (i) improve the controls by Ministry of Finance over nonbudget revenues,
in particular by giving it access to full details of accounts held by the payments bureaus and banks in
9



the name of budget funded entities; (ii) bring extra budgetary funds into the budget where this is
appropriate and introduce enhanced controls on EBFs; (iii) introduce improved government
accounting standards, including commitment accounting; (iv) introduce a medium-term expenditure
framework to improve budget planning; and (v) establish effective internal and external government
audit services.
We hope that the above elaboration of the program for the reform of our public finance
systems has clearly expressed our commitment to modernizing our economy and putting it on a
sound and sustainable path to growth and prosperity. The continued contribution of the World Bank
together with other agencies is an essential part of this difficult endeavor.
Mr. Mirsad KUrrt?vic
Minister
Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Mxw-FWem  Bicackik                                Mr. Milorad Dodik
Prime Minister                                   Prime Minister
F  cration of  snia and Hr    na                          Reptli Srpska
Mr. Drago Bilandzija                              Mr. Novak Kondic
Deputy Minister and                                   Minister
Minister                                     R  ublika Srpska
Federation Ministry of Finance                            Isty of Fin
`71                                           '    b
10



ANNEX 11
page 1 of 10
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
(Items in italic and bold are conditions for tranche releases)
POLICY AREAS AND           ACHIEVEMENT/MEASURES             MEASURES PRIOR TO THE        MEASURES PRIOR TO THE SECOND          LONGER-TERM TASKS
OBJECTIVES               ALREADY INTRODUCED           FIRST TRANCHE DISBURSEMENT         TRANCtIE DISBURSEMENT
(MAY 1998)                     (AUGUST 1998)
I. Maintaining a Stable
Macroeconomic
Framework
Monetary Policy
*  Establishing institutional    *  Approved Central Bank Law;  *  Agree on the currency design;   *  Progress in implementation of   *  Issue the new currency;
framework for monetary   *  Appointed Central Bank       *  Inaugurate the Central Bank;     the Central Bank Law;         *  Continued implementation
management.                  Governor and the Governing   *  Conclude auditing and                                             of the Central Bank Law;
Board members;                 liquidation plan of NBBH.
*  Linked the two separate                                      *  Strengthen the management of  *  Integrate payments systems
payments system in the                                          the Federation payments           under the new currency.
Federation;                                                     system;
*  Established a clearing
mechanism between the
Entities' payments systems.
*  Maintaining policies      *  Has restored and maintained   *  Maintain quasi-currency board   *  Continued satisfactory     *  Continued satisfactory
conducive to monetary        monetary stability since late   principles, and abstain from     implementation of the            implementation of the
stability.                   1994;                           extending credits to the public  monetary policies by the         monetary policies by the
sector or the banking system;    monetary authorities;            new central bank;
Fiscal Policy
*  Maintaining a fiscal policy   *  Has maintained budgets that   *  Balance budgets on a cash  *  Continue to balance budgets on
consistent with the          are balanced on a cash basis    basis; abstain from borrowing    a cash basis, abstain from
monetary policy.             and abstained from             from the nonbank and banking      borrowing from the nonbank
borrowing from the domestic    sector; and prevent              and banking sector; and
banking sector.                accumulation of arrears.         prevent accumulation of
arrears.



ANNEX II
page 2 of 10
POLICY AREAS AND          ACHIVMNtMEASURESEASE  R     TOT                              MEASES PAIORTO TE S                 L    ER-TERM lTA
OBJECTIVES               ALED  NTOUE                 IRTTACIEDSUSEET                   TANIEDSURSEMENT               
II. Ensuring Financing of the
State Administration
Operationalization of a  *  Approved 1997 State Budget  *  Preparation of the draft 1998   *  Adoption and implementation
viable State finance        Law;                           State and Entity Budgets;       of mutually consistent 1998
mechanism.                                                                                 State and Entity Budgets;
*  Completed the division of old  *  Agreement in principle on the   *  Commencement of        *  Smooth operation of State
debt owed to the World Bank   mainfeaturesfor the              mechanismfor automatic          finance mechanism.
and the Paris Club creditors  operation of a mechanismfor      transfer offunds.
between the Entities and is   automatic transfer offunds
proceeding with the division  from Entity to the State.
of debt owed to London Club
creditors.
*  Strengthening the customs   *  Approved BiH Foreign Trade  *  Draft amendments to the   *  Adopt and implement
revenue collection and      Law and Customs Policy         existing Entity Customs Laws    amendments to the existing
customs administration      Law;                           to harmonize them with the      Entity Customs Laws;
across BiH.                                                BiH level Customs and Trade
Laws;
*  Drafted the Interim BiH    *  Adopt the Interim BiH         *  Finalize the permanent BiH   *  Implement;
Customs Tariff Law.           Customs Tariff Policy Law;       Customs Code and Tariff Law;
*  Strengthen the EU's customs    *  Develop a plan to harmonize    *  Adopt and implement.
monitoring mission in           and improve cooperation of the
Republika Srpska.               Entity customs administrations.



ANNEX II
page 3 of 10
POLICY AREAS AND          ACHIEVEMENT/MEASURES            MEASURES PRIOR TO THE        MEASURES PRIOR TO THE SECOND        LONGER-TERMTASKS
OBJECrIVES               ALREADY INTRODUCED         FIRST TRANCHE DISBURSEMENT         TRANCHiE DISBURSEMENT
(MAY 1998)                    (AUGUST 1998)
III. Establishing a Viable
Debt Management
Structure
Developing debt          *  Started debt service        *  Operationalize a special State
management capacity to      payments, although often       debt service account with the
enhance the efficacy and    with delays, on rescheduled    transparent operating
effectiveness of the        debt;                          procedure adopted by the State
external borrowing and to                                  MFTER;
facilitate the reintegration   *  Approved State External
of BiH into the             Debt Law;
international capital
markets.                 *  Started drafting Entity Debt   *  Complete the draft Entity Debt  *  Adopt and implement the
Laws;                         Laws;                            Entity Debt Laws;
*  Established Debt           *  Draft the statute of the State  *  Adopt the respective statute for  *  Maintain an effectively
Management Unit in the State  Debt Management Office, and      the State and the Entities;     working State Debt
MFTER;                        statutes of the Entity Debt  *  Strengthen the capacity of debt  Management Office and
*  Established Debt Monitoring    Monitoring Units;               management agencies by new       effectively working Debt
Units in the Entities;                                        recruits, training and           Monitoring Units in the
computerization;                Entities;
*  Established a Working Group                                                                 *  Create the Debt Advisory
on debt management policy.                                                                     Committee and ensure its
effective functioning.
*  Conclude an agreement        *  Implement the Agent Bank
between the State Debt          Agreement.
Management Unit and its
Agent Bank.
*  Creating mechanisms of                                  *  Conclude Coordination        *  Implement Coordination        *  Establish a unified public
coordination among the                                     Agreement between the State     Agreement and regularize the     debt database that will link
State and Entity debt                                      and the Entities and initiate   debt information flows           State and Entity debt
management units.                                          information sharing and         between the State and the        management bodies.
coordination.                   Entities.



ANNEX II
page 4 of 10
POLICY AREAS AND EAHIEVE               T     U                AuES       - PI  TO .     MESES   OR   THE S.coNLO                 GERE    TSIS
OBJECTIVES                 AREADYV0  INTRDUCED .  FI^  TRNH EDISBURMN                     T-NH  DSBURSMEN
IV. Reforming Inter-
governmental Finances
*  Providing a sound         *  Agreed under Dayton on the   *  Agree on the specific features   *  Operate a State finance
foundation for the           basic framework for division   for a State finance mechanism.   mechanism (see Section II).
emerging public finance      of fiscal responsibility
structure.                   between the State and its two
constituent Entities.
-In Federation:
*  Clear assignment of public  *  Basic governance structure    *  Clarify responsibilities for  *  Adopt and implement the
functions to Federation,     has been established across    health, education, social        agreed changes in expenditure
canton and municipal         Federation including           welfare and defense spending     and revenue assignments.
governments.                 adoption of the Law on the     for the fiscal year 1998; and
revenue and expenditure        review and revise the Law on
assignment. Certain areas      Allocation of Federation
(e.g. health, defense, social  Revenues to conform with
welfare), however, left with   assignment in expenditure
less clearer assignment.       responsibility.
* Adopted laws on health
insurance and health
protection.
*  Efficient assignment of                                                                   *  Initiate work to determine    *  Adopt and Implement.
revenues compatible with                                                                     revenue allocation in such
the services for which                                                                       situations where some
Federation, cantons and                                                                      component of the activity takes
municipalities are                                                                           place in more than one
responsible.                                                                                 jurisdiction.



ANNEX II
page 5 of 10
POLICY AREAS AND          ACHIEVEMENT/MEASURES            MEASURES PRIOR TO THiE       MEASURES PRIOR To THE SECOND        LONGER-TERM TASKS
OBJECTIVES               ALREADY INTRODUCED         FIRST TRANCHE DISBURSEMENT         TPRANCHE DISBURSEMENT
(MAY 1998)                    (AUGUST 1998)
V. Reforming and
Harmonizing Tax Policy
and Coordinating Tax
Collection
*  Harmonizing tax policies    *  Republika Srpska initiated  *  Prepare the amendments to  *  Adopt and implement the
between the Entities and    drafting amendments to the     the Sales and Excise Tax Law     amendments to the Sales and
improving tax collection    Sales and Excise Tax Law to    of Republika Srpska             Excise Tax Law of Republika
and coordination to         levy sales tax on excisable                                     Srpska;
discourage tax avoidance    goods at the wholesale level.
and evasion.                Federation already collects                                 *  Entities to review the tax rates   *  Continue the effort to
the sales tax at this level.                                  and definition of the base for   harmonize tax policies;
the wage, income, profits and
sales and excise taxes; and
prepare proposals for better
harmonization;
*  Promoting coordination                                                                   *  Entities to review           *  Implement programs to
between tax                                                                                administrative structures,       establish coordination and
administrations of the two                                                                 forms and contents of            cooperation between Entities
Entities.                                                                                   information requirement of tax  tax administrations.
payers, collection and auditing
procedures;
*  Entities to develop cooperative
arrangements to address tax on
inter-entity sale;
In Federation:
*  Reforming tax system to    *  Adopted Federation wage,  *  Drafting of Federation personal *  Further reduce the number of   *  Adopt and implement;
(i) reintegrate the tax     sales and excise taxes.        income and corporate profit tax  sales tax rates to two and adjust *  Initiate work, in coordination
policies and administration                                laws.                           the sales tax on services to the  with Republika Srpska, on
across Federation;                                                                         maximum sales tax on goods;      State value added tax to
(ii) enhance the revenue                                                                *  Define, on a more permanent      replace sales tax;
collection; and (iii) better                                                               basis, the role of Cantons in tax
facilitate private sector                                                                  policies.
expansion.



ANNEX II
page 6 of 10
POLicy AREAs AND          AcHIEVEMENT/IMMEASURES          ME       S   O   O     
OBJECTIVES               ARAYITOUE                   IS  RNH   IBREET                  TACEDSUSMN
*  Draft amendments to the      *  Adopt and implement.
Excise Tax Law to equalize
the excise tax rate between
domestically produced and
imported goods.
*  Reduced payroll tax rates,  *  MoF to finalize the necessary    *  Implement amendments to the
and amended the Wage Tax      regulations to implement the     Federation Wage Tax Law.
Law to restrict non-wage      amendments to the Wage Tax
benefits in wage tax          Law.
exemptions.
*  Merged the separate tax    *  Develop a system for reporting  *  Implement the reporting
collection systems under the  between cantonal tax offices     system.
Federation Tax                and the central tax office.
Administration.
In Republika Srpska:
Reforming tax system to    *  Reduced the wage tax rates                                *  Draft amendments to Wage     *  Adopt and implement;
enhance the revenue         through a reduction in                                         Tax Law to restrict tax
collection and to facilitate  pension contributions and                                    exemption status of nonwage
growth and private sector   wage withholding tax;                                          benefits;
expansion.
*  Preparing amendments to    *  Adopt and implement                                           *  Initiate work on State value
Sales and Excise Tax Law      amendments to the Sales and                                      added tax to replace sales tax
requiring payment of excise   Excise Tax Law.                                                  in coordination with the
taxes at border and use of                                                                     Federation.
customs stamps for excisable
goods;
*  Began updating taxpayer                                     *  Prepare for issuing new      *  Adopt and implement.
registry.                                                      taxpayer identification
numbers.



ANNEX II
page 7 of 10
POLICY AREAS AND          ACHIEVEMENT/MEASURES           MEASURES PRIOR TO THE       MEASURES PRIOR TO THE SECOND        LONGER-TERM TASS
OBJECTlVES              ALREADY INTRODUCED         FIRST TRANCHE DISBURSEMENT         TRANCHE DISBURSEMENT
(MAY 1998)                    (AUGUST 1998)
VI. Establishing Efficient
and Equitable Social
Safety Net
Reforming Pension System
*  Achieving fiscal         *  Federation Government      *  Submit the new Federation    *  Adopt and implement the new
sustainability and          drafted the legislation to (i)  Pension Law to the            Federation Pension Law;
improving equity among      prevent accumulation of       Federation Parliament;
pensioners.                 pension arrears; (ii) gradually
increase the retirement age;
and increase the minimum
service period required for
retirement; (iii) tighten
eligibility criteria;
* The Management Board of
Bosniac Pension Fund
improved targeting by
flattening the benefit
payments;
*  Improving coordination in   *  Federation Government                                   *  Establish intra-Federation
pension policy and          drafted the legislation to                                    coordination mechanism
administration.             establish intra-Federation                                    through the Federation Pension
policy and administrative                                     Agency or other arrangement.
coordination;
*  Make available to all pension    *  Establishing an inter-Entity
funds information as contained  coordination mechanism
in the pre-war computer data-  through a tri-partite
base of the BiH pension fund;  agreement between the three
pension funds.
*  Begin to develop proposals for  *  Undertake pension reform.
*  Comprehensive medium-                                                                     medium-term reforms in both
term pension reform.                                                                      Entities.



ANNEX II
page 8 of 10
POLICY AREAS AND           ACHIEVEMENT/MEASURES            MEASUEtS PRIO WTO THE        M
OBJECTIVES               ALREADY INTRODU CED         FRSTRNEDSBJSMT                     TANE lSREET
Other Social programs
*  Improving and targeting   *  Federation government       *  Clarify the mandate of the    *  Prepare a study of veteran   *  Comprehensive reform of
financial sustainability of  established the Federation     Federation Directorate for       programs in both Entities to:    social safety net.
social programs.             Administration for Veterans    Veterans;                       (i) analyze whether
and Disabled Soldiers Affairs  *  Initiate a survey of the     commitments are affordable in
and initiated a survey of      beneficiaries under veteran      the immediate- and medium-
beneficiaries to formulate     programs in Republika Srpska;   term; (ii) clarify permanent
benefits policies;         *  Initiate a comprehensive          entitlements versus one-time
review of existing social       compensations; and (iii) bring
welfare programs to improve     benefits to veterans and
effectiveness, sustainability   veteran families more in line
and targeting.                  with the other social groups.
*  Improving the scope and                                  *  Initiate the preparation of a  *  Continue with the preparation    *  Adopt and implement the
effectiveness of labor                                      new Employment Law, and          of the new law;                  new law.
programs.                                                   refrain from creating an         Design and implement a
unemployment insurance in the   transitional policy for covering
absence of financial resources.  the unemployed.
VII. Reforming Budget
Management
*  Establishing              *  Established basic budgets at   *  Use the new classification  *  Initiate preparation of a GFS    *  Implement GFS
comprehensive budgets,       all levels of governments;     scheme for preparing the 1998    classification scheme for        classification in Republika
including all revenues and   *  Federation has drafted a    Federation and Canton            Republika Srpska budget;         Srpska;
expenditures, for each       classification scheme which    budgets;
level of government and      conforms with the GFS                                       *  Record external cash grants    *  Establish a comprehensive
improving budget             definition and intends to                                       and borrowingfor general         revenue and expenditure
classification.             introduce it across                                              budgetary purposes and           recording system inclusive
Federation.                                                     corresponding expenditure in     of external financing for
the 1998 budget;                 general budget and for
specific projects;
*  Draft Legislation to limit the    *  Adopt and implement;
number of and to regulate the
EBFs;



ANNEX II
page 9 of 10
POLICY AREAS AND           ACHIEVEMENT/MEASURES            MEASURES PRIOR TO THE        MEASURES PRIOR TO THE SECOND         LONGER-TERM TASKS
OBJECTIVES               ALREADY INTRODUCED          FIRST TRANCHE DISBURSEMENT         TRANCHE DISBURSEMENT
(MAY 1998)                     (AUGUST 1998)
*  Initiate preparation of capital    *  Incorporate capital projects,
budget, including all externally  including those which are
financed projects;              externally funded in the
budget.
*  Developing a framework to                                *  Develop plans for settling all    *  Develop rules on expenditure    *  Establish commitment
better report record, and                                   accumulated arrears within the   commitments by public           accounting and reporting
control all government                                      context of overall restitution   institutions.                    standards.
liabilities.                                                policy.
*  Developing clear rules for   *  Introduced basic budget                                   *  Plan for establishing a budget   *  Implement;
budget planning,            preparation and execution                                        evaluation function within
approving, execution,        laws at all levels of                                           MoF budget department;
evaluation and public        governments;
disclosure.
*  Entities revised their organic                               *  Enact revised Federation
Budget Laws. Federation                                         Organic Budget Law;
MoF is preparing a new,                                     *  Draft a new Organic Budget   *  Enact the revised Budget
comprehensive Budget Law.                                      Law of Republika Srpska;         Law of Republika Srpska;
*  Initiate development of      *  Develop a multi-year
necessary procedures for        financial planning process on
linking budget programs with    the basis of macro-economic
macroeconomic and fiscal        forecast and policies;
policies and priorities;
*  Entities to take initial steps to    *  Adopt and implement;
establish the audit offices and    *  Public disclosure of
auditing procedures;            information about budget
implementation and regular
reporting of audit results.
_                                             ~~~~~~~~~_J



ANNEX II
page 10 of 10
POLICY AREAS AND          ACHIEVEMENT/MEASURES           MEASURES PRIOR TO TIIE      MEASURES PRIO TOTHE SECOND           LONGER-TE  TAS;S
OBJECTIVES              ALREADY INTRODUCED         FIRST TRANCHE DISBURSEMENT         TRANCIIE mDISURSEMENT
(MNAY 1998)                   (AGUST 1998)
*  Initiate preparation of a new  *  Finalize draft Federation law    *  Adopt and implement;
Federation law on public       on procurement;
procurement.                *  Initiate preparation of the law    *  Adopt and implement;
on public procurement in
Republika Srpska;
Developing an effective                                                               *  Began preparatory work on    *  Draft and pass legislation for
control over the budget by                                                                establishing a Treasury         establishing the Treasury
establishing Treasury                                                                     Department at each MoF          Department; and operate the
Department and a Treasury                                                                 responsible for: (i) budget     Treasury Departments and
Single Account in the                                                                     execution and financial         Treasury Single Account.
respective ministries of the                                                              planning; (ii) accounting and
State and Entities.                                                                       reporting; and (iii) cash and
debt management.



Annex III
page 1 of 9
Table 1: Bosnia and Herzegovina - Key Economic indicators
Actual                           Estimat          Projected
Indicator                1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998         1999    2000
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                           toi                                       100      100
Agriculture                                     I 0                                        19      20
Industry                                        43                                        23       24
Services                                        48                                        58       56        -
Exports (GNFS)a                          21      24                         10      18      20      22       22        23       25
Imports(GNFS)                            18       19                       53      62       68      58       59        46       34
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                  10633   8670       .              1964    2157    3328    4456    5956        7485     8635
(US$ million at current
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1995
prices)
Gross domestic product at                      -23                                7       50       30       30       22       12
market prices
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1995 prices)
Gross domestic product at                      -23                                12      50       30       30       22       12
market prices
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports(GNFS)'                         2188    2120                       194     381     658      997     1328      1720    2141
Merchandise FOB                                                         91      152     336      570      822      1127     1451
Imports(GNFS)a                         1953    1673                     1040    1334    2278    2587    3505        3418    2977
Merchandise FOB                                                        894     1082    1882    2198    3007       2985     2670
Resource balance                       235      477                      -846    -953    -1620   -1589   -2176    -1698    -835
Net current transfers                                                    879      1002    1094    772       480      345      281
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                                                  -177    -193    -748    -1046    -1815    -1453    -656
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct                                                0        0       0        0       100      200      200
investment
Long-term loans (net)                                                   -258    -271    -107       55      259       197      57
Other capital (net, including                                            429      602     1222    1216    1631       1131     448
errors and omissions)
b
Change in reserves                                                        6      -138    -367    -225    -175        -75      -50
(continued)



Annex III
page 2 of 9
Table 1: Bosnia and Herzegovina - Key Economic indicators
(Continued)
Actual                       Estimate                             Projected
Indicator                1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997          1998     1999     2000
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                    2        6        ..             -43      -44      -49      -36      -36      -23      -10
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1995 prices)
Merchandise exports                      ..                                 .       63      115      65       40        33       25
(FOB)
Merchandise imports                                                                 18      69       13       33        -4      -13
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)c
Total revenues                                        ..      ..           ..       35      62       61       59        47       39
Tax revenues                                  ..       ..      ..                29      43       43       38       35        36
Grants                                    ..           ..                        6        19      18       21        12       3
Total expenditures                               ..       ..               ..       35      70       68       70        53       40
Budget deficit (-)                           ..       ..      ..           ..       0        -8      -7       -11       -6       -1
Foreign financing                        ..      ..       ..       ..       .       0        8        7       12        6        2
Memorandum items
Budget deficit excluding grants (-)                                                 -6      -27      -25      -33      -18       -5
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market                        ..               ..       ..       18      23       22        ..
prices)
Growth of M2(%)                          ..                       ..       ..       8       96       25        ..
Price indices( 1995 =100)
Consumer price index
(% average growth rate)
Federation                               ..      114      ..               780     -4       -25      14                ..
RepublikaSirpska                         ..      114       ..     ..      1061     118      66        3        ..
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
b. Includes use of IMF resources.
c. General Govemment
Source: Official data and staffestimates.



Annex III
page 3 of 9
Table 2: Bosnia and Herzegovina - Key Exposure indicators
Actual                       Estimate                              Projected
Indicator                   1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997           1998      1999     2000
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)"                                          2586    2809    3013    3360    3884    4439         4745      5102     5331
Net disbursements (US$m)                             ..                                                      215      458       378       239
Total debt service (TDS)
(USSmy'                                         ..       .,      287      485      547      513     573      385       236      186       194
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDO/XGS"                                       ..      ..       ..       ..    1553       882      590     445       357      297       249
TDO/GDP                                        ..      ..       ..       ..      153      156      117      100      80        68       62
TDS/XGS                                        ..      ..       ..       ..      282      135      87       39       18        11        9
Concessional/TDO                                                          ..      ..       ..           ..        ..
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                              ..      ..       ..       26       19      26        6       10        16       21       22
Preferred creditor DS/public DS (%)'          ..       ..       ..       28       20      28       23       16       24        30       31
IBRD DS/XGS                                    ..      ..       ..       ..       54      36        4        4        3        2         2
IBRD TDO (USSm)d                              ..       ..      415      483      546      623     596      596      596       606       646
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)                    ..      ..       0.4     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.6      0.6      0.6       0.6
IDA exposure indicators (%)
IDA DS/public DS                               ..      ..       ..       ..       ..      ..       0.0     0.4       1.4      2.2       2.3
IDA DS/XGS                                    ..       ..       ..       ..       ..      ..       0.0     0.1       0.3      0.2       0.2
IDATDO (USSm)                                  ..      ..       ..       ..       ..      ..      204      364      464       554      614
IFC (lJS$m)
Loans                                          ..      ..       ..       ..       ..      15       15        8
Equity and quasi-equity'                       ..      ..       ..       ..       ..       0       0        0
M IGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                         0       0        0        0        0        0       0         0        ..
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-term capital. After debt rescheduling.
bh "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA. the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF. and the Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
Source: Official data and staff estimates.



Annex III
Page 4 of 9
Table 3: Bosnia and Herzegovina - State Revenues and Expenditures, in millions of KM/DM, 1996-98
State                                             1996         1997?         1998'
TOTAL REVENUES                                                                                78          136           173
TAXES                                                                                       0            0             0
NONTAX REVENUES AND GRANTS                                                                 78          136           173
Consular Fees                                                                            14          20            20
Support for Salaries from the World Bank                                                 2
Grants "                                                                                21
Transfers from Entities                                                                 42          116           153
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                                                           127          136           183
Wages, Salaries and Employee Contributions                                              30           17            40
Material Costs/Running Costs                                                            23           14             8
Debt Service Payments                                                                   19           96           126
Expenditures not Otherwise Classified d'                                                51            4             4
Reserves                                                                                 4            4             6
BUDGET BALANCE                                                                               -49            0           -10
NET FINANCING                                                                                 49            0            10
FOREIGN CREDITS (net) '                                                                       45            0            10
DOMESTIC CREDITS (net)                                                                         4            0             0
a/ Based on the State Budget Law of June 1997 which is only partially executed. The data on 1997 budget realization is highly
incomplete.
b/ As adopted by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina
c/ In 1996 includes World Bank IDA credit which is cofinanced by the Netherlands Govemment and provided for
budgetary support
d/ In 1996 includes expenditures financed by proceedings of the IDA Credit and Dutch Grant; in 1998 includes separation
package for those State employees to be laid off
Source: Official data and staffestimates



Annex III
page 5 of 9
Table 4: Bosnia and Herzegovina - Central Government Revenues and Expenditures in Draft 1998
for Federation and Republika Srpska, in millions of KMIDM. 
Federation                    Republika
Srpska
TOTAL REVENUES                                                                           822                           365
TAXES                                                                                 766                           347
Sales Tax                                                                           0                             140
Excises                                                                            390                            19
Customs                                                                            376                            92
Personal Income Tax                                                                 0                              11
Profits Tax                                                                         0                             36
Other Taxes                                                                         0                             50
NONTAX REVENUES AND GRANTS                                                             56                            18
TOTAL EXPENDITURES BY ECONOMIC CLASSIFICATION                                            917                           468
Wages and Contributions                                                             88                            107
Goods and Services                                                                  33                            38
Military                                                                           343                            86
Reconstruction Expenditure                                                          30                            14
Transfers to Households                                                            303                            113
Transfers to the State Government                                                   95                            60
Administration                                                                  20                             50
Debt Service                                                                    75                             10
Transfers to Cantons or Municipalities                                              7                             12
Expenditures not Otherwise Classified                                               1 8                           39
BUDGET BALANCE                                                                           -95                          -103
NET FINANCING                                                                            95                            103
FOREIGN CREDITS (net)                                                                    80                            103
DOMESTIC CREDITS (net)"                                                                   15                            0
a/ Budget figures represent only the central government revenues and expenditures, excluding cantonal budgets for Federation and
municipal budgets for Republika Srpska
bh For the Federation budget indicates expected privatization revenue
Source: Official data from the Federation and the Republika Srpska Ministries of Finance and staffestimates



Annex III
page 6 of 9
Table 5: Bosnia and Herzegovina - General Government Revenues and Expenditures in the Federation, in millions of DM, 1994-97
1994            1995                                 1996                                                    1997
Consolidated    Consolidated    Consolidated    Consolidated                                  Consolidated
Federation                                                         w/ Donor       w/o Donor      Federation    Sub-level         w/ W/o Donor   Federation    Sub-level hI
TOTAL REVENUES                                             401             855             2,497          1,661           329          1,442             2,100           623           1,495
GENERAL FUND REVENUES                                      331             659             2,041          1,205           329            985             1,552           623             947
TAXES                                                   236             436             1,115          1,115           312            803             1,395           565             850
Customs                                                50              95              201            201            163            38               281            286               0
Excises                                                 4             118              205            205            149            56               264            279               0
Sales Tax c/                                          166             117              485            485              0           485               581              0             581
Wage Tax                                               13              50              117            117              0           117               140              0             140
Personal Income Tax                                     0               0               0               0              0             0                 0              0               0
Profits Tax                                             2              10              31              31              0            31                37              0              37
Other Taxes                                             1              46              76              76              0            76                91              0              91
NONTAX REVENUES AND GRANTS                               96             223              926              90             17           182               157             58             97
Fees                                                    0               0              16              16              0             16               60             15              19
Fines                                                   0               0               3               3              I              3                6              3               3
Consular Fees                                           0               0               0               0              0              0                0              0               0
Special Fees                                            0               0              20              20              2            20                49             22              24
Support for Salaries from the World Bank                0               0               3               3              3              0                2              2               0
Grants                                                 76             169             847              11             1 1             0                0             13               0
Transfers from Other Levels of Govemment                0               0               0               0              0            110                0              0              10
Other Revenues                                         20              54              36              36              0            34                40              4              40
SOCIAL FUND CONTRIBUTIONS v                                 70             196             457              457             0            457               548              0            548
Health                                                  0               0             188             188              0            188              226              0             226
Pensions                                                0               0             210             210              0           210               252              0             252
Education                                               0               0              22              22              0             22                27             0              27
Unemployment                                            0               0              21              21              0             21               25              0              25
Other                                                                    0              15              15                           15                18              0              18
Continued



Annex III
page 7 of 9
Table 5 (continued): Bosnia and Herzegovina - General Government Revenues and Expenditures in the Federation, in millions of DM, 1994-97
1994          1995                             1996                                          1997
Consolidated  Consolidated  Consolidated  Consolidated                           Consolidated
Federation                                                       w/ Donor      w/o Donor   Federation  Sub-level      w/o Donor  Federation Sub-level
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                              420           854           2,839         1,751          420        1,441        2,096         641       1,494
GENERAL FUND EXPENDITURES BY FUNCTION                           350           684           2,511         1,423          409       1,124          1,719        641       1,117
General Public Administration                                   0             0            174           121           33          89            132          40         92
Defense                                                      215            374             74            74            5          70           318          254         64
Public Order and Safety                                         7            19            295           212           11         201           211           35        176
Education, Culture and Sport                                  22             56            345           267            2         266           295           10        290
Health                                                          0             0            274           201            7         195            177           1        170
Social Protection                                              0              0            259           185          100          85           274          192         92
Urban Planning, Utilities, Housing and Environment             0              0            119            46            1          45            49            1         49
Energy, Mining, Industry and Economic Development               0             0            394            83           31          52            59            2         57
Transportation, Communications and Information Media            5             5            216            68           10          58            81           21         61
Agriculture, Forestry and Water System                         0              0             90            13           11           2             13          11          2
Reconstruction, SFOR, War Criminals and Int'l. Coop.           0              0             44            11            3           8             8            0          8
Expenditures not Classified by Major Group                    101           230            157            72           55          17            27           23         17
Contributions to the State of BiH                               0             0             29            29           29           0             17          30          0
Contributions to Cantons and Municipalities                    0              0              0             0          110           0             0            4          0
Interest Payments                                              0              0              0             0            0           0             0            0          0
Reserves                                                       0              0             41            41            4          37            57           17         40
o/w goods reserves                                           0             0             24            24            0           24            26           0         26
SOCIAL FUND EXPENDITURES                                         70           171            328           328            11         317           377           0         377
Health                                                         0              0             46            46            0          46            55            0         55
Pensions                                                       0              0            223           223           11         212           252            0        252
Education                                                      0              0              4             4            0           4            27            0         27
Unemployment                                                   0              0             40            40            0          40            25            0         25
Other                                                          0              0             15            15            0          15             18           0         18
BALANCES
TOTAL BUDGET BALANCE                                            -20             0            -341           -90          -91           1             4          -18          1
General Fund Balance                                          -19           -25           -470          -219          -80        -139           -167         -18       -170
Social Fund Balance                                           -1            25             129           129          -11         140           170            0        170
BALANCE AFTER FINANCING                                           0             0              0             0             0           0             0           0           0
NET FINANCING                                                    20             0            341            90            91          -I            -4           18         -1
FOREIGN CREDITS (net)                                             0             0            341            90            91          -1            -4           0          -1
DOMESTIC CREDITS (net)                                           20             0              0              0            0           0             0           18          0
a! Includes World Bank IDA credit, cofinanced b) the Dutch government and provided as a budgetary support
b/ Estimated based on available official data
c/ Includes some excise taxes, 1994
d/ "Social security contributions", 1994 and 1995
Source: Official data and staffestimates



Annex III
page 8 of 9
Table 6: Bosnia and Herzegovina - General Government Revenues and Expenditures in Republika Srpska, in millions of DM, 1994-97
1994         1995                                 1996                                                  1997'
Total           Total        Republika                        Total         Republika
Republika Srpska                                                w/ Donor       w/o Donor        Srpska        Municipal       w/o Donor         Srpska       Municipal
TOTAL REVENUES                                            211          188           447             365            338             27              465            259             26
GENERAL FUND REVENUES                                     139          140           362             280             254            27              357            259             26
TAXES                                                  131          138            243             243            216            27              346             241            26
Customs                                               13           16            91              91             91             0               117             77              0
Excises                                                0            0            13              13              13             0               41             12              0
Sales Tax 3'                                         85           84             48              48             37             12               65            111             16
Wage Tax                                             32            27            50              50             35             15               35             27             10
Personal Income Tax                                    0            0             7               7              7              0                9              7              0
Profits Tax                                            I           10             I               I              0              0                1              1              0
Other Taxes                                           0             0            33              33             33              0               78            247              0
NONTAX REVENUES AND GRANTS                                8            2           119               38             38             0               11              18             0
Fees                                                   0            0             1                1              1             0                6             15              0
Fines                                                  0            0             1               1               1             0                2              2              0
Consular Fees                                          0            0             0               0              0              0                0              0              0
Special Fees                                          0             0             4               4              4              0                0              0              0
Support for Salaries from the World Bank               0            0             0               0              0              0                0              0              0
Grants                                                 0            0           105              23             23              0                0              0              0
Transfers from Other Levels of Govemment               0            0             0               0              0              0                0              0              0
Other Revenues                                         0            0             8               8               8             0                3              1              0
SOCIAL FUND CONTRIBUTIONS hI                               72           48             85              85             85             0              108               0             0
Health                                                 0            0            37              37             37              0               45              0              0
Pensions                                               0            0            47              47             47              0               63              0              0
Education                                              0            0             0               0              0              0                0              0              0
Unemployment                                           0            0             0               0              0              0                0              0              0
Other                                                  0                           0               0              0             0                0               0             0
Continued



Annex III
page 9 of 9
Table 6 (continued): Bosnia and Herzegovina - General Government Revenues and_Expenditures in Republika Srspka, in millions of DM, 1994-97
1994       1995                              1996                          -_____-  -__    1997"
Total         Total       Republika                    Total       Republika
Republika Srpska                                                 w/ Donor      w/o Donor      Srpska      Municipal    w/o Donor       Srpska      Municipal
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                               248         197          448            366           341           24           463          209           24
GENERAL FUND EXPENDITURES BY FUNCTION                            181         150          340            258           233           24           354          209           24
General Public Administration                                    0          0           43             38             31            6           46           25             6
Defense                                                        120         88           57             57             55            2           89            73            2
Public Order and Safety                                          0          0           22             22             20            2           52           40             2
Education, Culture and Sport                                    16         14           33             30             26            4           39             0            4
Health                                                           0          0            0              0              0            0            0             0            0
Social Protection                                               0           0           43             35            33             2           62           21             2
Urban Planning, Utilities, Housing and Environment               0          0            7              3              1            2            3             0            2
Energy, Mining, Industry and Economic Development                0          0           34              8              8            0            2             2            0
Transportation, Communications and Information Media             5          2           18             15             12            3           15            12            3
Agriculture, Forestry and Water System                           0          0            9              1              1            0            2             2            0
Reconstruction, SFOR, War Criminals and Inftl. Coop.             0          0           28             25             25            0            0             9            0
Expenditures not Classified by Major Group                      40         47           25              1              0            1             1            1            1
Contributions to the State of BiH                                0          0            0              0              0            0           18             0            0
Contributions to Cantons and Municipalities                      0          0            0              0              0            0            0             1            0
Interest Payments                                                0          0            0              0              0            0            0             0            0
Reserves                                                         0          0           23             23             20            3           25           22             3
o/w goods reserves                                            0          0           20             20             20            0            22           22            0
SOCIAL FUND EXPENDITURES                                          67          47          108            108           108            0           108            0             0
Health                                                           0          0           45             45            45             0           45             0            0
Pensions                                                         0          0           63             63             63            0           63             0            0
Education                                                        0          0            0              0              0            0            0             0            0
Unemployment                                                     0          0            0              0              0            0            0             0            0
Other                                                           0           0            0              0              0            0            0            0             0
BALANCES
TOTAL BUDGET BALANCE                                             211         188          447            365           338           27           465           50            26
General Fund Balance                                           -42        -11           22             23             20            2            2           50             2
Social Fund Balance                                              5          2          -23            -23            -23            0            0             0            0
BALANCE AFTER FINANCING                                          248         197          448            366           341           24           463           50            24
NET FINANCING                                                     37           9            1              1             3            -2           -2          -50            -2
FOREIGN CREDITS (net)                                              0           0            1              0             0             0            0            2             0
DOMESTIC CREDITS (net)                                            37           9            1              1             3            -2           -2          -52            -2
a/ Includes some excise taxes, 1994 and 1995
b/ "Social security contributions", 1994 and 1995
ct "Social organizations", 1996 and 1997
d/ Includes some health expenditures
et 1997 level assumed to be fixed at 1996 level, no data was directly available
f/ Budget estimates for 1997 are highly incomplete due to lack of adequate information, particularly the foreign exchange revenues
Source: Official data and staff estimates



MAP SECTION



IBRD 27708R
16' I j            <_              To Zagreb                               18'           TO Osijek
lb        ZlFj_ _~greb%reb                 C R O AT I A                        To Wmkovei
To Osijek2
70 Glin a ~ ~      ~      Boanko
Bosanski Novi           osn                                                                                 TO Belgracoe
45 ,                                       Pain  > /X edor        >>Derventao                  ;_ dia-0t                        < 
&      Bosanska           ^
.. Bihoi'L    Krupa                          Banjo
Pet.QBosankic               i               Vra in^ki               aglaj LUk           luzlao     - i    dla 
-       . OPet.rovaC   . ,,  .           $       OSkender Vakuf              .             Ziviiceonic0
CROATIArWrvar     Mrkonj' c           K Viroi
Bonk                                      PTlareve                                                               nik  c Vsenica
Teianz
-Klu                        SkenrDoni   Vakuf
Knin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iii eGoo  Bglo
44  1<                                                        0Folnico       SeNizovak BugBersoQv                FBanqi. llade
rvr             Mkon             Garj Vokuf             KreRevo        *,-Sarajeo           -
"a X  X )   SL o. ;V                                                                             i
Jezeroo X   ODice                     Koi c
<   _ O uca revsi e        Kaknir  0     Kain      -      an   ic             Prajepalje
Donii  ku            ,S.rebNevesinje--dri   FEDERAL
Adl-r-i~nati Gc-- --SeF o                                                                                       (-VisSERBIA/MONTENEGROo
yTo~~~~~~~~~~~~T
ik                  0 Duvno                                                      Gorc2de~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pdgr
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~alnl                                       Konic -- 
- BOS:NIA ANID-HKERZEGOYVINA-. .-_-_--._:_-_-_NKn
- : -; -;- MAokRO.ADZ  -  -- ~-                                                         :,              4x1  CZECH +  POLAND /    UKRA50-
-  -    --      -AIEROS- -                                                       GERMN \,        -,p->FL REP,
0    SBtECT8O CITRES  ~~~~~~~MO 
-   ~ ~      -    ~   ~ -  5    A I N l Ss L C A P   IT A L     - ~ ~                   ~      *     . 
-:  -  vF   fXn9hAtCAflTAL   .-.:   -   -                   ',  't       ~~~~~SLO,BNA,  ' .                  A OAI  _
~~~~~~~-   -  .  _ NTERNAfliOAi BOU;WAB15--FDIES                               ,9MA  IA  \f-
FEDERAL 
s \      OF
SITAEY  R        ERB/M ONTE NE BULGARIA  O
0     -    25 T-an- -ti c-c-                                       n e     n -any   t B        O                                   BANAC     -C
t~~~~~~~1                                  17                                                                      K                      g  -={etsayer-f-rrvFrArans;sVa  TURKEY
-B.                                                                                          18 - - -  1 7r  -  -  ~  ~ - - t 8 B0' /><  2IotE2
AUGUST 1 996



