                                   Documentof

                            THE WORLD BANK




                                                    ReportNo.: 31343




             PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                        BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                      TRANSITION ASSISTANCE CREDIT
                            (CREDIT NO. 2914-BOS)

          PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                            (CREDIT NO. 3090-BOS)

    SECOND PUBLIC FINANCE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                            (CREDIT NO. 3258-BOS)

                   SOCIAL SECTORADJUSTMENT CREDIT
                            (CREDIT NO, 3465-BOS)




                                January 27,2005




Country Evaluation and Regional Relations
Operations Evaluation Department


Contents

PrincipalRatings        ................................................................................................................     i

Key StaffResponsible            .......................................................................................................      ..
                                                                                                                                             11

Preface...............................................................................................................................      ...
                                                                                                                                            111

Summary   .............................................................................................................................      v

   Introduction      ..................................................................................................................      1

      Social and Political            ..................................................................................................     1
      Economic .................................................................................................................             3
      World Bank Group Relations with BiHandother Donors                                             ......................................  5
   The Credits:Context, Objectives, and OverallDesign                                          ............................................  6

   DetailedDesignandImplementationExperience                                         .....................................................   9

      Transition Assistance Credit (TAC)                         ........................................................................    9
      Public FinanceStructural Adjustment Credit (PFSAC); andthe SecondPublic
          FinanceStructural Adjustment Credit (PFSAC2)                                       ............................................14
      Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC)                                ........................................................... 21
   Assessment of Outcomes andother Ratings                                 ............................................................     23
      Transition Assistance Credit (TAC) ......................................................................                             23
      Public FinanceSector Adjustment Credit (PFSAC); and the SecondPublic
         Finance Sector Adjustment Credit (PFSAC2) .................................................                                        25
      Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC)                               ...........................................................     26

   Lessons ........................................................................................................................         27


Annexes

                                                                                                                                            29

Annex C: Comments from the Co-financier .....................................................................
Annex B: Comments from the Borrower.......................................................................... 35
Annex A: Basic Data Sheets .............................................................................................

                                                                                                                                            36
Annex D: List ofPeopleMet............................................................................................                       37


                                                       1



  PrincipalRatings
                                                     ECA Region                          OED
                                                         ICR*                 ES*                  PPAR
   TransitionAssistance Credit (Cr. 2914)           June 10, 1997        Sept. 12, 1997        Jan. 27,2005
  Outcome                                            Satisfactory         Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory
  Sustainability                                      Uncertain             Uncertain              Likely
  InstitutionalDevelopment Impact                       Partial              Partial              Modest
  BorrowerPerformance                                      1                Not rated          Unsatisfactory
  Bank Performance                                         2              Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory

  PublicFinanceStructuralAdjustment
  Credit (Cr. 3090)                                 June 30,2000         August 7, 2000        Jan. 27,2005
  Outcome                                            Satisfactory         Satisfactory          Satisfactory
  Sustainability                                         Likely              Likely                Likely
  InstitutionalDevelopment Impact                    Substantial          Substantial              High
  BorrowerPerformance                                Satisfactory         Satisfactory           Satisfactory
  Bank Performance                                   Satisfactory         Satisfactory          Satisfactory


  SecondPublicFinanceStructural
  Adjustment Credit(Cr. 3258)                       June 2,2003          June 27,2003          Jan. 27, 2005
  Outcome                                            Satisfactory         Satisfactory          Satisfactory
  Sustainability                                        Likely               Likely                Likely
  InstitutionalDevelopment Impact                        High                 High                 High
  BorrowerPerformance                                Satisfactory         Satisfactory           Satisfactory
  Bank Performance                                   Satisfactory         Satisfactory          Satisfactory


  SocialSectorAdjustmentCredit       .
  (Cr. 3465)                                        April 9, 2002        June 17, 2002         Jan. 27,2005
  Outcome                                            Satisfactory         Satisfactory          Satisfactory
  Sustainability                                        Likely               Likely                Likely
  InstitutionalDevelopment Impact                    Substantial          Substantial            Substantial
  BorrowerPerformance                                Satisfactory         Satisfactory          Satisfactory
  Bank Performance                                Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory             Highly
                                                                                                Satisfactory
  *The ImplementationCompletion Report(ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleoperationaldivision of
 the Bank. The EvaluationSummary (ES) is an intermediateOED product that seeks to independentlyverify
 the findings of the ICR.




 'The
~~              ~




        ICRratedBorrower Performanceunder the TACas `highly satisfactory' duringpreparation,
'`deficient' duringimplementationand `satisfactory' regardingcompliance; no overall rating was given.
   The ICRratedBankPerformanceunder the TACas `satisfactory' during identification and `highly
satisfactory' thereafter; no overallrating was given.

                                                11



 Kev Staff ResDonsible
 Project                         TaskManager/Leader         Sector Director/   Country Director
                                                            Sector Manager
 TransitionAssistance Credit
 (Cr. 2914)
 Appraisal                              Wei Ding              MichelNoel       ChristineWallich
 Completion                            Wei Ding               MichelNoel       ChristineWallich


 Public Finance Structural
 Adjustment Credit (Cr. 3090)
 Appraisal                          SebnemAkkaya             PradeepMitra         Christiaan
                                                                                  Poortman
 Completion                         SebnemAkkaya             PradeepMitra         Christiaan
                                                                                  Poortman
 Second Public Finance
 StructuralAdjustment Credit
 (Cr. 3258)
 Appraisal                          SebnemAkkaya             Pradeep Mitra         Christiaan
                                                                                   Poortman
 Completion                          Saumya Mitra            Cheryl Gray            Orsalia
                                                                               Kalantzopoulos


 Social Sector Adjustment
 Credit(Cr. 3465)
 Appraisal                           Philip O'Keefe        Michal Rutkowski        Christiaan
                                                                                   Poortman
 Completion                          PhilipO'Keefe         MichalRutkowski         Christiaan
                                                                                   Poortman



ICR for TransitionAssistance Creditwas preparedby Wei Ding, KhaledSherifandRandiRyterman
ICR for Public FinanceStructural Adjustment Credit waspreparedby SebnemAkkaya and Shahid
Chaudhury
ICR for SecondPublic Finance Structural Adjustment Creditwas preparedby Saumya Mitra, Jean-
Luc Bemasconiand IrinaSmirnov
ICRfor Social SectorAdjustment Creditwas preparedby Elliott Hurwitz

                                              ...
                                             111



 Preface


        This i s a Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) on the Bosnia and
 Herzegovina: TransitionAssistance Credit (TAC) for SDR62.4 million(US$90 million
 equivalent); Public FinanceStructuralAdjustment Credit (PFSAC) for SDR46.2 million
 (US$63 million equivalent); SecondPublic Finance StructuralAdjustment Credit
 (PFSAC2) for SDR53.2 million(US$72 million equivalent); andSocial Sector
Adjustment Credit (SOSAC) for SDR15.3 million (US$20 millionequivalent),
respectively. The Netherlandsprovidedco-financing for TAC(US$20 million), PFSAC
(US$22.3 million) andPFSAC2 (US$23 million); the Swiss Federationprovided co-
financing for PFSAC2 (US$3 million). This report is basedon the President's Reports for
the projects, summariesofBoard discussions, legal documents, project files, related
economic and sector work, andImplementation Completion Reports (ICRs) for the
projects (prepared bythe Europeand Central Asia Region). Inaddition, discussionswith
Bosnian officials, other donors, other stakeholders, and World Bank Group staffwere
valuable inputs into the report.

        An OperationsEvaluationDepartment(OED) mission visited Bosniaand
HerzegovinainDecember 2003 to discuss the effectivenessofBank assistancewith
government officials, donors andother stakeholders. Their cooperationand assistancein
preparingthis report is gratehlly acknowledged. This mission coincided with another
OED mission preparing a Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE). Many discussionswere
heldjointly with one or more CAE missionmembers. The PPARmissionbenefitedfrom
the additional insights that thesejoint discussionsprovided.

       Comments from the Bank's RegionalManagementhavebeenincorporated inthe
report.

       A draft report was sent to the Government ofBosnia andHerzegovina for
comment, and their comment is attached inAnnex B. A copy was also sent to co-
financiers, and comment from the SwedishInternational Development Cooperation is
attachedinAnnex C. No commentswere received from The Netherlandsor the Swiss
Federation.

       Thisreport was preparedbyMr.StephenEccles (Consultant), who assessedthese
projects inDecember2003, underthe supervision o f Ms. Laurie Effi-on (Task Manager).
Ms.RoziahBabaprovidedadministrative support.

iv

                                                    V



  Summary

  1.      Attached is the Project Performance Assessment Report on four quick-disbursing
  InternationalDevelopment Association (IDA) credits to Bosnia andHerzegovina (BiH):
  Transition Assistance Credit (TAC) for SDR62.4 million (US$90 millionequivalent);
 Public Finance StructuralAdjustment Credit (PFSAC) for SDR46.2 million (US$63
 million equivalent); SecondPublic Finance Structural Adjustment Credit (PFSAC2) for
 SDR53.2 million(US$72 million equivalent); andSocial Sector Adjustment Credit
 (SOSAC) for SDR15.3 million (US$20 million equivalent). TACbecame effective in
  September 1996 and closed on schedule inDecember 1996. Co-financing o fUS$20
 millionwas providedby the Government o fthe Netherlands. PFSACbecame effective in
 July 1998 andclosed on schedule inJune 1999. Co-financing o fUS$22.3 millionwas
 providedby the Government o fthe Netherlands. PFSAC2 became effective inDecember
  1999 and closed inDecember 2002, one year behindschedule. Co-financing o f
 US$23 millionwas providedby the Government o fthe Netherlands ando fUS$3 million
 bythe Swiss Federation. SOSACbecame effectiveinJune 2001 andclosed on schedule
 inAugust 2001.

 2.       TAC'sobjectives were budget support for the Federation andbalance o fpayments
 support for the State, as well as institutionaldevelopment of the Federation as a key
 buildingblock for the development o fthe new State andthe peaceprocess.' The
 objectives o fPFSAC andPFSAC2 were to buildon BiH's achievements to date in
 establishing the common institutions and governance structure mandated by Dayton,
 supporting institution-buildingandpolicy reforms inpublic finance inthe State, the
Federation and the Republic o f Srpska (RS), as well as continuingbudgetand balance o f
payments support. SOSAC's objectives were to develop institutional mechanisms for the
development andprioritization o f social protectionpolicy; improve the policy framework
for the generation o f employment; focus programs on the needs o fthe poorest; and
strengthen social statistics.

3.       Progress inmacroeconomic stabilizationhas beensignificant, with low inflation
and an independent Central Bankworking on currency boardprinciples. But economic
growth, while substantial duringthe immediate post-war reconstructionperiod
generously hndedby donors, has dropped offconsiderably inrecent years, leaving BiH's
GDP still at only 72 percent o fpre-warlevels. The principal obstacle to growth is the
lack o fprivate sector development, including the largely failed attempts at privatization
o f state and socially-owned enterprises. Taxes remainhigh and manyregulations remain
onerous to private sector development, though some progress has beenmade, including
on labor laws. There are manyreasons for the failure o fthe privatization process so far,
the major one beingthe apparent lack o fcommitment at senior political levels.
Substantial progress has been made inharmonizing taxation across the Federation and
RS; stabilizationo fpension arrangements; financial sector development (though the
' The Daytonpeace agreementprovidedfor multiple levels of government, to reflectpolitical realities: the
sovereign State of Bosnia and Herzegovina (State) was givenminimumpowers and minor autonomous
sources ofrevenue, while major powers were vested intwo Entities: the Federation ofBosnia and
Herzegovina (Federation), the population of which was mainly Bosniak and Croat; and the Republic of
Srpska (RS), the populationo f which was mainly Serb.

                                              vi


banking sector has not been a major provider of funding to the private sector); budgeting
andaccounting for and auditingo fpublic expenditures; and extemal debt management. A
largeagendaofpolicy andinstitutionalreforms remains to becompleted.

4.      The outcome o f TACis ratedas unsatisfactory andofPFSAC,PFSAC2 and
SOSAC satisfactory. The sustainability for all four credits is likely. The institutional
development impact of TACi s rated as modest, while that o fPFSAC andPFSAC2 i s
rated as high, andthat o fSOSAC as substantial. Borrower performance is rated as
unsatisfactory inthe case o f TAC, andsatisfactory inthe cases o fPFSAC,PFSAC2 and
SOSAC.The underlyingproblem inthe earlier operations was lack o fpoliticalwill
behind the reform program, althoughthat now seems to have improved. Bank
performance was also unsatisfactory for TAC,but satisfactory for PFSAC andPFSAC2
andhighly satisfactoly for SOSAC.The only reasonfor notratingBankperformance as
highlysatisfactory under PFSACandPFSAC2 was the failure to addressmoredirectly
questions o f tax evasion andhighgovernment expenditures -performance with what was
tackled was o f a highorder and insome instances represented `best practice'.

5.     The mainlessons fiom these credits are:

   0   When original designs o f a quick-disbursingoperation have to be drastically
       reduced inscope, inthe face o fpractical andpolitical difficulties, this should give
       rise to a reassessmento f the whole operation, inparticular the credit amount, to
       ensure that there remains a relationship betweenthat amount andthe policy
       adjustments being supported.

   0  Providing general budget support into a situation where there i s virtually no
      auditing of, or accountability for, government expenditures is unwise, inthe
      absence o f a watertight, monitorable agreement with the borrower on the use o f
      those fbnds. Insofar as current IDA policy is not to concern itselfwith the use o f
      funds ina quick-disbursing operation, then either that policyhas to change or IDA
      has to forego the provisiono fbudget support insuch circumstances.

   0  Providing budget support, inthe face o fmajor tax evasion and excessive
      government expenditures, can bepotentially counter-productive, inthe absence o f
      an agreed and concerted direct attack on those elements. Otherwise the presence
      o fbudget support reduces the naturalpressure on governments to take urgent and
      meaningful action.

   0  Ina situationwhere there isnot clear borrower commitment to acourse o faction,
      or there i s a history o fback-tracking or non-implementation o f laws and
      regulations, the mere passageo f legislationor promulgation o fregulations i s not
      usually a good basis for tranche release conditionality. There also needs to be a
      period of implementation or, better, conditionality based on actual results
      achieved.

      Onany issue, includingmacro-economic andtax-related issues, IDA should
      maintainan independent position. If there is disagreement between IDA and the

                                     vii


InternationalMonetary Fund (IMF), IDA support should bebasedon its own
assessment.

Inahighlychargedpoliticalatmosphere,progresscanbeachievedbybringing
conflicting parties together for technical discussions, with IDA staffor TA
consultants present. To be successful, however, it requires the involvement o f
particularly empathetic staff, the carehl choice andbriefing o fTA consultants,
andintensive supervision -all of which happened under the two PFSAC
operations andSOSAC. Inthese respects, these three operations represent good
practice.

When a longandcomplicatedagendaofreforms is needed andwhere future
detailed actions can only beproperly prescribed after further discussions and
developments on the ground, careful sequencing of operations is required. This
was done for PFSACandPFSACZ,to be followed by the proposed Economic
Management SAC; and for SOSAC,to be followed bythe proposed SOSAC2.
Such careful sequencing i s another example o f goodpractice. By contrast, there
was no immediatefollow-up to TAC,compoundingits poor design as a one-
tranche operation.




                            GregoryK.Ingram
                              Director-General
                          Operations Evaluation

 ...
Vlll

                                                         1


  1.        Introduction

  Social and Political

  1.1      In1995,BosniaandHerzegovina (BiH) emerged from adevastating periodof
  wars, peace beingachieved only with the help o f determined internationalefforts,
 resultinginthe DaytonAccords inDecember (Dayton).' Daytonincluded a constitution
  for BiHthat provided for multiple levels o f government, to reflect the political realities
  andthe desires o fthe various ethnic groups (Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs`) to retainas
 much control as possible over their own affairs. The sovereign State o f Bosnia and
 Herzegovina (State) was givenminimumpowers-principally                      foreign relations, customs
 and foreign trade policy, immigration, inter-entity policies on transport, communications
 andenergy, andexternal debt-and only minor autonomous sources of direct revenue
 (mainly consular fees). There was to be an independent Central Bank, which was to
 operate along the lines o f a currency board for at least six years, andwhich was not
 aIlowed to make credit available to governments or the bankingsector. The Central Bank
 was not to have powers o fbankingsupervision.

 1.2      Major powers were vested intwo Entities: the Federation o f Bosnia and
 Herzegovina(Federation), the population o fwhich was mainly Bosniak and Croat; and
 the Republicof Srpska (RS), the population o fwhich was mainly Serb. Manyo f the
 powers normally assigned to a sovereign state were vested inthese two Entities and their
 political subdivisions: for example the armed forces, the rights to the principal sources o f
revenue (customs duties, sales and excise taxes, wage taxes, income taxes) and banking
 supervision. The two Entitieswere to provide the State with resources to runState
services, thus allowing the Entitiesto control what the State did. Additional powers could
be granted to the State only by agreement o fthe Federation andthe RS.As a result o fthis
structure, BiHhas lacked a "single economic space" which, compounded by the
administrativeinefficiencies o f the multiplelayers o f government, have created special
challenges for the country's development and for donor efforts to that end.

1.3       The Federation comprised 10largely autonomous cantons (8 with a largemajority
o f inhabitants from a single ethnic group, and 2 with mixed BosniakKroat populations),
with only minimumpowers cededto the Federation. All levels o feducation andhealth
services were cantonal responsibilities, for example. The cantons were also principal
recipients o f tax revenues, with only customs receipts directly allocated to the Federation.
As the Federation hadno power over the allocation o frevenues betweencantons, and as
the cantons hadvery different levels o f development and o f sources o f revenue, there
were major differences inthe abilities o f the individual cantons to provide services.

'As  the following description shows, Daytonestablished a complex government structure, politically
necessaryat the time; but the result was that routine government processessuch as settingupaccounts and
adopting budgetswere far from easily achieved, and later became the focus o fBank support under
'adjustmentpopulation
            loans.
 The 1991              o f4.4 million comprised 43.7 percent Moslems (now referredto as Bosniaks), 31.4
percent Serbs, 17.3 percent Croats and 7.6 percent "other" ("Yugoslav" or other nationalities). There has
beennocensus since 1991. Some sources estimate the current populationto be 4.0-4.1 million, but others
estimate it at only about 3.8 million, givensignificant post-war out-migration.

                                                     2


 Within the cantons were municipalities, some-Mostar              is the most famous-having         a
 mixed ethnic composition. The RShad a more unitarystructure, with most powers
 restingcentrally. There are no cantons. Some localpowers lie with the municipalities.

  1.4      At the timethat the first ofthe credits coveredby this assessmentwas under
 consideration (January-September 1996), only the initial steps hadbeen taken to putthe
 Dayton constitutional arrangements into place. The State existed only on paper, as the RS
 playedno practical part inits management, reflectingRS reluctance concerningDayton.
 The Federation comprised a dual collection o f institutions, one managed by Bosniaks, the
 other by Croats; and a major task was to meldthese institutions into single Federation
 structures. The cantons were still inthe process o f formation, with the mixed cantons
 facing the same dual structure (some o fwhich persist to this day). There was no
 recognizable budget established for any o fthe cantons (most o fwhich did not even exist
 inreality), or at the Federation andStatelevels.

 1.5      After elections inSeptember 1996, the RSbeganto play its role inthe
 management o fthe State. However, deep mistrustbetween the Federation and the RS
 made it extremely difficult to move forward, as each entity appeared to be more
 interested inensuringthat its own narrow interests were looked after, than inthe
 development o f a viable State. Harmonizationo fpolicies betweenthe Entities, essential
 to development, was not considered highpriority by political leaders. Similarly withinthe
 Federation, ethnic distrust slowed development. This situation was compounded by the
 Daytonrequirement o f elections every two years, through 2002. Thus, for the majority of
 the periodcoveredbythis assessment, there were constant changes inthe 13 sets of
 government andpolitical leaders had always to be concerned about forthcoming
 elections. Makingethnic concessions for the overall benefit of the country was extremely
 difficult, so that progress was infits andstarts. In2000, reformist governments were
 elected and considerable progress was thenmade. This didnot seem to sit well with the
electorate andmore `nationalistic' governments were elected in2002 for a four-year term
(which will be the normfrom now onwards). Despitethis `nationalistic' label, however,
governments now seem to be more reconciledto the existence o f the State. They seemto
realize that eventual entry into the European Union(which seems to be a very popular
idea inBiH) will require aproperly functioning State. Hence, agreement was reached in
late 2003, at least inprinciple, on such matters as the unification o fthe armed forces, the
institutiono f a State-run value-added tax system (VAT), and the unificationo f entity
customs administrations into a State institution. There are manydetails yet to be worked
out, but there is room for cautious optimism. Nevertheless these factors have adversely
affected the ability o fthe Bank and other donors to contribute effectively to economic
andsocial progress over the period coveredbythis assessment.

1.6     These political developments have taken place inthe context o f international
peace-keeping forces remaining inthe country (although now beingreduced), and o fthe
existence o f an Office o f the HighRepresentative (OHR)with extraordinary powers,
reportingto a Peace Implementation C ~ u n c i l .The   ~ HighRepresentative has usedhis
powers to remove elected ministers, to declare some laws invalidand to institute others.


 The Council comprises the 55 countries and international organizations which participated in Dayton. It
was establishedto oversee the peace agreement and still meets several times a year.

                                                3


 Inalmost all ofthe latter cases, however, therehasbeeninexistenceadraft law already
 agreed at the governmental level, but with an inability to secureparliamentary passage,
 usuallyrelated to imminent elections. Because of this, there does not seemto have been
 any government `ownership' problem, andtheseimposedlaws have generally been
 implemented as well as others. Nevertheless, the OHR has recently been criticized for
 delaying the time when BiHcould become a nationresponsible for its own affairs.

 Economic

 1.7     While completely accurate informationon the humanandmaterial costs o fthe
 war is impossible to compile, there i s general agreement that the humansufferingand
 physical devastation were on a scale not seen inEurope since World War 11. As many as
 250,000 were killed, 400,000 wounded, and over 2 million either fled the country or were
 internally displaced. Over two-thirds o fhomes were damaged, with one-fifth totally
 destroyed. An estimated 30-40 percent o f hospitals were destroyed and 30 percent o f
 healthcare professionals were lost to death or emigration. Up to 70 percent o f school
 buildings had been destroyed, damaged or requisitioned for other uses, and large numbers
 o fteaching staff hadbeenlost.

 1.8     Bythe endofthe war industrialoutputhadfallento anestimated 5 percent o fthe
 1990 level with 45 percent o findustrialplant destroyed; electricity and coal production
 were at 10percent o fpre-war levels; andthe livestock herdhad shrunk to 30 percent o f
 the pre-war numbers. By 1994 the GDP and GDP per capita hadplummeted to less than
 20 percent o fthe pre-war level, significantly lower inrelationto the 1989-1991 base than
 inanyother country inEasternEuropeor theFormer Soviet Union. At war's end
 unemployment and poverty were widespread.

 1.9    Following Dayton, growthhas beenstrong inpercentage terms-estimated at
 32 percent in 1995,62 percent in 1996,30 percent in 1997 and 16percent in
 1998-principally   as a result o f an extraordinaryphysical reconstruction effort funded by
international donors. As this phase o fdonor assistancedraws to a close, growth rates
have diminished considerably-estimated       at 10 percent in 1999, and 3.5 to 5.5 percent
per annumthereafter-leaving      GDP at only 72 percent o fpre-war levels. Recent lack o f
strong growth i s a major cause o f concern; manyyoung people do not see a prosperous
future inBiHanddesire to leave. Basically, the private sector has failed to expand,
despite macroeconomic stability, with low inflation throughout the post-war period.

1.10    BiHinherited from Yugoslavia its system o fstate andsocial ownership, and
worker self-management, o feconomic assets. Post-war conversion to a market system
has been troubled. Socially and state owned enterprises were to have beenprivatized and
a policy climate put inplace which wouId encourage the private sector, seen as the main
'engine o f growth' after the reconstructionperiod. A good deal o f the small and medium-
sized enterprises have indeedbeen privatized, but through a voucher scheme which
resulted inhighly diffused ownership, ineffect leavingthe old management incharge
without the expected injection o fnew management and ideas, andwithout an ownership
demanding progress. Privatizationo f larger, more strategic enterprises (other thanbanks)
has hardlybegun. There appears to be political reluctance at the top to embrace change.
There are vested interests, particularly political groups which are financed by some o f

                                                 4


  these enterprises. There are questions about who is the current real owner(s), because o f
  the 'social' nature o fmuchprevious ownership, quite unlikethe straightforwardstate
  ownership inother transition economies. There are fears that privatizationo fmajor
  enterprises will lead to further unemployment, amajor political issue (see paragraph
  1.15).

  1.11 Bycontrast, privatizationo fbanks hasmade considerable progress, with some
  extemal investment. There i s now a country wide network o f commercialbanks, which
  seems able to handle all needed short-term transactions and household financing needs,
  althoughthere i s virtually no mediumand long term lendingto the private sector. This is
 partlyareflectiono fthe lack of growth oftheprivate sector andpartlya failure to bring
 thejudicial system up to the required standards. While the bankruptcylaws have been
 modemized, implementation through the presentjudicial system may be faced with
 difficulties. And depositors are not yet ready to make term deposits.

  1.12   Labor laws have not been conducive to laying o f f or hiringworkers, although
 considerable recent progress has beenmade. Taxation on labor, thoughreduced and
 comparable to that inother transition economies, remains fairly high.To avoid this
 taxation andbureaucracy, much o fthe private sector development that has takenplace is
 intheinformalsector rather thanthe formal sector. Existenceofinformal enterprises
 makes it difficult to establish competitive new formal sector enterprises. Smuggling i s o f
 such a magnitude that the Central Bankhas to make special efforts to quantify it inorder
 to explain national accounts. Evasiono f sales and excise taxes i s also major. Corruption
 is endemic, reflectedinWorld Bank Institute indicators.

 1.13    As noted later inthis report, BiHhas been faced-as       are other transition
 economies-with      problematic pensionand other social payments funding (including
veterans' benefits arising from the years o fwar). Despite initial resistance, the population
seems to have accepted the reality o fthe situation. Stability has beenachieved, with at
least minimumpayments beingmaderegularly to most, and accumulationo funpaid
claims stopped. The incidence o fpoverty among pensioners is now less than for the
population as a whole.

 1.14    With the number o fgovernment levels set out inDayton, it is not surprisingthat
public expenditure i s over 57 percent o f GDP (2000 estimate), mostly salaries and
entitlements, rather than investment. With the informal economy largely avoiding taxes,
tax rates on those that do pay are already too high.A major effort i s therefore needed on
multiple fronts: a serious attack on smugglingand sales, excise andwage tax evasion, a
reduction inthe costs o f government, completion o f the privatizationprogram, removal o f
remainingbarriers to private sector development, andreductions intax rates.

1.15    Byanymeasure, unemployment inBiHtoday is high, althoughclearlynot as high
as official figures (>40 percent), which seem to paralyze governmentactions on some
fronts. Employment inthe informal economy is not reported, nor probably some recent
hiringinthe formal economy made insuch a way as to avoid wage taxation. Total
unemployment i s most likely inthe range o f 20-25 per~ent.~


 Bosnia and Herzegovina CountryAssistanceEvaluation (Report no. 29824), page 20.

                                                     5


  World Bank GroupRelationswith BiHand other Donors

  1.16    The World BankGroup moved quickly to be active inBiH.Itbegantechnical
 meetings with Bosnianofficials, outside BiH, evenbefore Daytonwas signed(December
  14, 1995). It was therefore able to act swiftly after Dayton. I t established a resident
 mission very early on, which proved to be extremely useful. Before BiHcould meet
 World Bankmembership requirements (not untilthe springo f 1996),5 the World Bank
 Group set up a US$150milliontrust fund, financed out o f accumulated IBRDsurpluses,
 which it usedto make initial credits and grants; and it co-sponsored (withthe European
 Union) an initial donor meeting (December 20-21, 1995). BiHwas declared eligible for
 IDAon an exceptional basis, withUS$400millionofIDA finds (on top ofthe US$l50
 million trust fbnd financing), to be used over the FY96-99 period, by which time BiH
 was expected to be creditworthy for a resumptiono f InternationalBank for
 Reconstruction andDevelopment (IBRD) borrowing. This expectation was beyond
 reason, even without the benefit o fhindsight. IDA allocations have therefore been
 continuedafter FY99, insmaller but still exceptional amounts.

 1.17     The donor community was extremely active inBosniainthe early years after
 Dayton. The World Bankplayed a major role incoordinating aid duringthe main
 reconstruction phase. Such efforts were welcome by bothBiHand other donors,
 especially as the Dayton governmental arrangements didnot make it obvious where the
 locus for aid coordinationshould lie inBiH-a           problem that remains to this day. UNDP's
 attempts to find such a locus have so far not met with success; and aid coordinationon
 the ground hasbecome moreproblematic, nowthat the mainreconstructionphaseis over.

 1.18    The World Bankprogram onpolicy reform, with quick-disbursing andinvestment
lending, also involved intensive donor coordination. This was particularly true for the
provision o ftechnical assistance (TA), which was essential inthe Bosniancircumstances,
butwhich BiHpreferrednot to borrow for. The WorldBanktherefore arranged for much
TA findedbyJapan's PolicyandHumanResources DevelopmentFund(PHRD), as well
as liaisingwith TA provided directly by other donors, especially the European
Commission, Netherlands, Switzerland, U.K.,USAID andU.S. Treasury. The Bank has
worked closely with the IMFwhich has had a Standby Agreement with BiHthrough most
ofthe period underreview; but there havebeenpolicy differences between the Bank and
the IMFon some technical issues, as noted later inthis report.

1.19     Since the initial donor meetings inlate 1995, the World Bankhas co-chaired with
the European Unionfour annual ConsultativeGroup meetings, 1996-1999. There has
beenno meeting since then as a result o f donor concerns about governance and
disappointment with the slow pace ofreforms inthe post-reconstruction period.




 For a discussion ofIBRDmembership conditions, whichincluded the assumption by BiHof a share ofthe
debt ofthe former Yugoslavia, see the recent Country Assistance Evaluation.

                                                6


  2.      The Credits: Context, Objectives, and OverallDesign

 2.1      A Bankcountry assistancestrategy was outlined inMarch 1996 inconnection
 with arrangements for BiH'sIBRDmembership and eligibility for IDA: an immediate
 assistance program, to take place before formal BiHmembership and funded bythe
 IBRDtrust fund (see paragraph 1.16); anda full scale assistanceprogram after
 normalizationof BiH's financial relationship with the internationalcommunity. The
 immediate assistance program consisted of a wave o f emergency projectsto help kick-
 start the reconstructioneffort, followed up by further reconstruction effort under the full
 scale program.

 2.2      The full scale program included an ambitious series o f quick-disbursingpolicy-
 based operations, part o f the Bank's role as a major player inthe reconstructioneffort. A
 first StructuralAdjustment Credit, for US$90 million o f IDA funds, was to be a one-
 tranche operation to focus on: (i)  establishing key institutions o f fiscal management and
 control at the state, federation, cantonal andmunicipal levels; (ii)   initiating the reform o f
 social security systems, inparticular pensions, health finance, and social assistance; (iii)
 starting the program o fprivatizationo f enterprises andbanking; and (iv) the
 implementation of key legal and institutionalframework for the financial system. This
 was to be followed about a year later by a Second StructuralAdjustment Credit
 (involvingUS$45 milliono fIDA funds), aimedat deepening the public sector and social
 security reforms initiated under the first StructuralAdjustment Credit; andby an
 Enterprise andFinancial Sector Adjustment Credit (involving US$50 million o f IDA
 funds), designed to support the full implementationo fthe enterprise andbank
 privatizationprogram, and the strengthening o fthe institutional framework for financial
 market regulationand supervision.

 2.3     At the time ofthe proposed strategy (March 1996), the Bankwas aware that this
programwas fraught with risk, giventhe complex political situation. It therefore also
proposed a full rangeo f non-lending services: policy advice, economic and sector work,
and technicalassistance. Inthe event ofdeteriorationinthe overall policy environment or
a lack o f sufficient progress onpolicy reform across the board, the strategy proposednot
to go aheadwith adjustment lending, but to support only specific sectors where the policy
andinstitutional framework would allow adequate implementation. Inthe event, the
complex political situation largely prevented 'progress onpolicy reform across the board'
over the following six months. The Bank approved a quick-disbursing operation anyway,
for the same amount-US$90        million-retaining  its one-tranche feature althoughno
immediate follow-up operation was now planned. The operation was renamed: Transition
Assistance Credit (TAC).

2.4      TACpolicy elements were necessarily but a pale shadow o fthose originally
intended for the Structural Adjustment Credit, although the need remainedurgent for
budget support to the Federation (principally for recurrent costs related to demobilization
o f soldiers; a pensionscheme; the emergency social fund; and the minimumhealth care
scheme), to the State for meeting debt service obligations, and to the country for balance
o fpayments support. TAChad to concentrate on the Federation, as the political situation
prevented assistance to RS. At the State level it could only provide finance for external
debt service, without any institutional development. Within a broad objective o f

                                                        7


  supporting recovery and the institutional development o fthe Federation as a key building
  block for the development of the new State and o fthe peaceprocess, the areas covered by
  the TACtranche releasewere confined to: establishing two Federation financial
  institutions (a customs administrationand a payments bureau) out o f four ethnically-
  basedinstitutions that had evolvedduringthe war; preparation o f a Federation
  PrivatizationAgency Law to be submittedto Parliament; and adoptionby the Federation
  Parliament o f a BankingAgency Law. These were potentially useful items, but quite
  minor compared to original objectives andneeds.

  2.5      IftheIDAamount committedto the TAChadbeenreducedto reflectwhat was
  now more realistically expected to be achieved, saving IDA funds for a more substantial
  operation later, and ifit hadbeenmade a two-tranche operation to enhance its
  implementation, the TACmight have been a useful operation-although                     that wouId not
  have overcome some detailed design problems (see following chapter). Inretrospect, the
  most useful outcome o fthis operation may have beenthe accompanying government
  Letter o fDevelopment Policy, which laid out long-term reforms which remain largely
  relevant today; and on which finther dialog betweenthe Bank andBiHwas based.

  2.6     A lessonwhich mightbe learned from the above is that originaldesignintentions,
  developed without an immediate disbursement imperative, are quite often far superior to
 what finally emerges inthe face o fpracticalandpolitical difficulties. When this occurs, it
 needs to be openly addressedandthe rest o fthe package reassessed, inparticular the
 credit amount.6

 2.7      The first formal country assistancestrategy was presented to the Board inJuly
  1997, i.e. after the TAC operation. The proposed strategy-strengthening                 institutions o f
 macroeconomic management, transition to a marketeconomy and deepening the
 sustainability o fthe reconstructionprogram-was               sensible. Two operations covered by
 this PPARwere foreseen: the PubZic Finance Structural Adjustment Credit (PFSAC)
 (FY98) andthe SecondPublic Finance Structural Adjustment Credit (PFSAC2) (FY99),
 leavingprivate financial sector andprivatization programs to be pursuedunder separate
 operations. Given the number and complexity o f issues supported byPFSACPFSAC2,
 this was a good decision.

 2.8      PFSAC/PFsAC2 objectives were to buildon BiH's achievements to date in
establishing the common institutions and governance structure mandated by Dayton,
along with policy reforms inpublic finance. PFSAC specifically covered: (i)financing o f
the State; (ii)   external debt management; (iii)       intergovernmental finances within the
Entities; (iv) harmonizing taxes and coordinating tax collection; (v) pensionreform;
(vi) budget management; and(vii) internal controls over, and external auditing of,
government expenditures. The program within these areas was comprehensive, detailed
andwell thought out. Inseveral instances, it includedwork without tranche release

6 The Region has commented,"This would be a valid criticism ina normal operating environment.
Nevertheless the TAC was the initialpost-conflict balance o f payments support operation which ino f itself
acted as an umbrella Operation, establishing basic post-war institution buildingand laying the groundfor
finther reform in this regard." OEDnotes that havinga large adjustment operation with very modest
conditionality is not appropriate even inpost conflict, unless management i s explicit about the limited
objective of the loan, and the Boardexplicitly agrees to it.

                                                      8


  conditionality, mainly becausethat work was intended to produce the framework for the
  design o fPFSAC2. This required a good deal of TA and Bank staff involvement in
  supervision. Although PFSACitselfdidnot finance TA-BiH was reluctant to borrow
  for this purpose-it     was the intentionthat the Bank arrange for it to beprovided, fbnded
  bybilateraldonors. The designo fPFSAC2 was thenaffected bythe results o fPFSAC
  andits associated TA inter-alia. That designwas also comprehensive, detailed andwell
  thought through. As well as taking further most o f the PFSACthemes, PFSAC2 also
  involved: (viii) veterans' benefits; and(ix) health finance.

  2.9      Nevertheless, PFSACPFSAC2 objectives cannot be entirely free o f criticism, as
  some elements not addressedprobably hadhigher priority thanthose actually tackled,
  andonwhich itmight havebeenbetter to have expendedIDA'Sleverage: tax evasion and
  smuggling andthe large size o f government budgets. Indeed, by providing budget support
 without tackling these issues aggressively was possibly counterproductive: IDA may
 have relieved governments from budgetarypressures that would otherwise have forced
  some action, given that BiHgovernments cannot borrow from the banking system or
 otherwise raise local debt.

 2.10      The amounts involvedintax evasion andsmugglingwere large incomparisonto
 the amounts o fbudget support providedbythe IDA operations. One estimate was that the
 tax evaded only on hightariff goods andtobacco products amounted to some DM300
 million (equivalent to US$140million). So it would seem that it would have been
 valuable for IDA to have assistedinformulating a carefbl strategy for a concerted attack
 on tax evasion. It could have done this by direct financing o fthe means for such an
 attack; and it could have conditioned its lendingon the achievement o fresults.'
 Admittedly these actions would have beendifficult, not only because they are
 intrinsically difficult, but also becausethere were strong vested interests inthe status quo,
 includingpolitical elements dependent on some sources o f finance which would have
 been curtailed.

 2.11    This is not to say that none o fthe actual IDA supported actions addressedthe tax
 evasion issue. For example, harmonizationof taxes across the two Entities specifically
 had tax evasion as an objective (inaddition to creating a `single economic space' within
 BiH), although this was partially frustrated inpracticebya differencebetweenIDAand
the IMF(see next chapter). Similarly with TA efforts towards the development ofVAT,
implementationo fwhich is now expected no later thanJanuary 1,2006. Efforts to
improve health system financing by tackling some wage tax evasion issues were also
supported.

2.12     Finally, IDA might have put more effort into sorting out thejudicial system
insofar as it relates to the development o fthe private sector (paragraph 1.11). However,



'The  Regionnotes, "The specific criticism .fails to take into account donor burden sharing. Inassisting
                                           ..
government with its tax reforms the Bank worked closely with the EC [European Commission] which put
into place an extremely large...project to strengthenthe customsand tax administrations." OED notes
that working with the EC on tax issues didnot prevent the Bank from addressing tax harmonization; so
donor burdensharing does not answer the questionof why the Bank did not also tackle tax evasion.

                                                 9


  this is a criticismthat should probablybemoredirected to other IDA operations thanto
  the two PF'SAC operationsper se.

  2.13    A secondformal strategy for BiHwas presented to the BoardinJune 2000, with
  the same broad objectives, now expressed as: strengthening governance andpublic sector
  management; fosteringprivate sector led growth; buildingsocial sustainability; and
  completing reconstruction. Given the breadth and depth o fthe intendedIDA
  interventions inthe first three objectives, it was proposed that they be accommodated by
  a series o f adjustment operations: a Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC) (FYOO),
  accompanied by a small T A project Social Sector TechnicalAssistance Credit (SOTAC),
  to be followed by a Second SOSAC(SOSAC2) (FY02); aBusinessEnvironment
 Adjustment Credit (FYO1); a privatization TA operation (FYO1); a pensionhealth TA
 project Social Insurance TechnicalAssistance Project (SITAP) (FY02); and a third
 Public Finance SAC (FY02), now entitledEconomic Management SAC (EMSAC). Inthe
 event, the SOSACand its associatedSOTAChad to be delayed untilFYO1, the former as
 a one-tranche operation reflectingactions already completed (and covered bythis
 assessment report) with the associated SOTACstill under implementation.

 2.14     IncontrasttotheTACoperation, SOSAC'ssingletranchewasjustifiedby:a
 relatively small amount inthe current context (US$20 million); andthe intention(carried
 out) to track implementationinthe course o fSOSAC2preparation. Overall SOSAC
 objectives were to: (i) develop institutional mechanisms for development and
 prioritization of social protectionpolicy; (ii) improve the policy framework for
 generation of employment; (iii)    focus programs on the needs o f the poorest; and
 (iv) strengthen social statistics. There was sufficient substance already achieved by
 governments inthese areas tojustify a `down-payment,' as it were, while the specific
 content for a `second tranche' for SOSAC(i.e. SOSAC2)could not then be fully
 determined, havingto wait for the results o f the associated TA operation (SOTAC). .

 2.15     Theproposed IDA interventionsoutlined inparagraph 2.13 have mostly suffered
 delays, includingtwo operations (SOSAC2 andEMSAC)designed to be follow-ups to the
 operations covered by this PPAR. Such delays are inline with a more stringent IDA
 approach to tranche releaseswhich became apparent duringthe course o fPFSAC2 (see
 following chapter). Whereas it will be seenthat the TACsingle tranche release was
rushed andpremature, andthe second tranche release for PFSAC hadinvolved waivers o f
conditionality, the second and third tranches o fPFSAC2 were delayed (the third tranche
substantially) untilthe conditionality hadnot only beennarrowly technically met but
there hadbeen a reasonable period o f implementation thereafter. This change inapproach
was healthy.


3. DetailedDesignand Implementation Experience

TransitionAssistance Credit(TAC)

3.1      TACbecame effective on September 11, 1996and closed on December 31, 1996.
Its single tranche was disbursed on September 13, 1996. Co-financing o fUS$20million
was providedby the Government o f the Netherlands. Technical assistance financed from

                                                      10


 the Bank-trust fund for anEmergency Recovery Project was instrumental inthe
 preparation and implementation o f the TAC(but that project i s not directly evaluated in
 thisPPAR).

 3.2       Originally all four TACtranche releaseconditions were intended to be fully met
 before credit documents were distributed to the Board. And this remained the case for
 three o f them:

                 full unification of the Federation CustomsAdministration (FCA), including
                  the elimination of checkpoints (between the Bosniak and Croat controlled
                  areas), the transfer o f accumulated customs revenues inthe Bosniak and
                  Croat payments systems to the Federationrevenue accounts, demonstrated
                  continual flow o fcustoms revenues to the Federation budget, as verified by
                  the European Union(EU) international observers. This was a useful step,
                  providing the Federation with its principal source ofrevenue. As the EUwas
                  providing continuing technical andmanagement assistance (and a policing
                  role), the Bank did not concern itself further with FCA's institutional
                  development, although it did keep involvedwith Customs policy issues
                  under PFSAC/PFSAC2. FCA is now scheduled to be integratedinto the
                 proposed new State-wide customs administration(paragraph 1.5). Despite
                  its relatively short life, therefore, FCA shouldbe considered as a sustainable
                  element o f TAC.
                 adoption by the Federation Parliament of theFederation Banking Agency
                 Law. This was another usehl step, establishing a uniform legal, regulatory
                 andinstitutional framework for bank licensing, regulation, andsupervision
                 throughout the Federation. The Agency was actually established in
                 September 1996.After TAC, further IDA interventions inthe bankingsector
                 took place under the aegis o f other operations not covered by this PPAR.
                 Insofar as development o fthe financial sector can generally be considered as
                 successhl (paragraph 1.1l),       so can this sustainable TAC component.

                presentation to the Federation Parliament of the Privatization Agency Law.
                 This legislation provided for Federation and Cantonal Privatization
                 Agencies to be established. Soon after TAC disbursement, the Law was
                 adopted, although there were thensubstantial delays inactually establishing
                 the agencies, especially those inthe cantons. Further IDA involvement with
                privatization took place under operations not covered by this PPAR.In
                 essence, althoughthe envisaged institutions were set up andcontinue in

                conceived as a voucher system (paragraph 1.lo), despite the Bank's
                existence, the privatization programat the time ofthe TACwas ill-

                awareness o fthe weaknesses o f such programs which hadbeen
                implemented inother transition countries.8 Inthe very narrow sense that
                TAC supported only the establishment o f an institution, not its eventual
                functioning, this TAC element achieved its objective. But ina wider sense,
                this TAC element was largely a failure.

 For a fuller discussion ofthe privatization program, see the Country AssistanceEvaluation
(Report no. 30714), and the PPARfor the Croatia EFSAL for companion cases (Report no. 28600).

                                                 11


  3.3      The fourth core element of TACwas the full unificationofthe Federation
  Payments Bureau (FPB), including the appointment o f a director and deputy director,
  development o f a checklist o fmeasuresto be taken for unification, and implementationo f
  all the requiredmeasures for a single FPB as demonstrated by lack o f need for periodic
  settlement and clearance between the two parts o f the payments system (one Bosniak, one
  Croat) for transaction balances. There was resistance to this TACprovision(unlike the
  fuller ownership o f the three other core elements described inthe previous paragraph)
 despite the obvious value o f an efficient single payments system for the Federation. This
 was probablybecause various political factions apparently received payments fi-om
 taxationcollectedby the ethnic payment systems; and one o f those systems may also
 have been the channel through which somepayments from Croatia to Croat organizations
 inthe Federationwere made.

 3.4      Initially, the Bank required`demonstration' o funificationover a four-week period,
 to be completed prior to TACdocumentation beingcirculated to the Board, originally
 scheduled for June 1996.9Because o f lack o f actionon FPB, the Board schedule was put
 back to September 1996. The Bank didnot want any further postponement, apparently
 for two reasons: (a) after the September elections, RSwas expected to play its full part in
 State government. Ifthe TACwas not disbursed by then, the new State government might
 have wantedto renegotiate it, as it providedno resources for RS; and (b) the first
 payments o finterest on the inherited Bank loans were falling due, for which purpose the
 State intended to use some TACproceeds. As progress inFPBunification was slow, the
 Bankstarted makingcompromises. First, the lengthofthe demonstration periodwas
 reduced, andeventually abandoned. Then the requirement was shifted from `before
 Board documents were distributed' to `before Board discussion.' Inthe event, FPBwas
 not unified by the Board presentation date (September 5), so management decided to
 convert unification into a condition o f effectiveness, rather thanpostpone the Board
 discussion, makingan oral presentation to that effect. Onthat same day, the Bank's
Resident Representative inSarajevo visited FPBheadquarters with a small team,
discussed the situation with officials and advisers, and concluded that unification had
indeedtaken place. Onthat basis, the condition o f effectiveness was considered to have
been met (September 11) and disbursement o f all US$90millionmade on September 13.

3.5      Inpractice, FPBwas never fully unified. TheBankfollowedupFPB
developments initially within the context o fpreparing an enterprise andbank
privatization adjustment operation, but progress was slow, andthe FPB element was
dropped. Instead, the BankparticipatedinUS-led efforts to abolishFPB (and its RS
counterpart) infavor o f usingthe rapidly developing commercial bankingsystem for
effecting payments. That transfer eventually took place at the start o f 2001, following a
directive frdm OHR.

3.6      Nevertheless, the Bank hadbeencorrect ininitially tryingto unify FPB under
TAC.At that time, the commercialbankingsystem was not functioning effectively and
the payments bureau hadto function for essential payments to be made, despite the fact
that they were relics o fold Yugoslavia, inefficient, opaque, associated with corruption


 The chronologyofevents describedinparagraphs3.4-3-6is basedonBank files and interviewswith Bank
staff.

                                                 12


  and diversion o f funds, and imposed highcosts on the private sector and on growth. But
  backing down on the unification issue within the Federation created an unfortunate
  impression on BiHauthorities that the Bank was not always serious about its
  conditionalities.

  3.7     Uses ofTAC proceeds. Some US$30 million o f the IDA credit were retained by
  the borrower (the BiHState). Itwas intended that these funds would be usedto helpmeet
  internationaldebt service payments and imports of gas for heatingthe capital (Sarajevo),
  with counterpart funds usedto assist the State infinancing its budget. The remaining
  US$60millionwere onlent (on IDA terms) to the Federation; the counterpart funds were
  expected to be used for budget support, includingrecurrent costs related to
  demobilization o f soldiers; a pension scheme; an emergency social fund; and aminimum
  healthcare scheme. These intentions and expectations were mentionedinproject
  documentation but, as i s normal for IDA-assistedquick disbursingoperations, they were
  not incorporated into the credit agreement. That agreement contained the standard
  provisions for quick-disbursingprojects at that time: that the proceeds o f the credit not be
  usedfor any items on a `negative list.' That `negative list' excluded: expenditures inthe
  currency o fthe Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory o fthe
 Borrower; for goods or services already financed by another agency; certainproscribed
 goods (such as alcohol, tobacco, items intendedfor militaryuse and environmentally
 hazardous goods), and goods and services fkom non-member countries or those
 prohibitedby a decision o f the UNSecurity Council. There was a standardproviso o f
 special interest to BiH, as one o f its principal (local) currencies at that time was the
 Deutsche Mark (DM). The proviso read: "if the currency o f the Borrower i s also that o f
 another country from the territory o fwhich the goods and services are supplied,
 expenditures insuch currency for such goods or services shall not be excluded
 expenditures." Thus, ifBiHpaid DMfor goods or services supplied from Germany, those
 would qualify; but local expenditures inDMwould not qualify.

 3.8     Undernormalcircumstances where budgetary support is intended(as inthis case),
 the proceeds o f a quick-disbursing credit are retained by the Central Bank for the
 financing of debt service and imports, while an equivalent amount o f local currency
 (often referred to as `counterpart funds') i s credited to the budget account of the
government. When this is done, it is not usually possible to trace the specific uses o f the
 `counterpart funds,' as these are mingledwith other government budget funds. In
exceptional cases, legal documents may specify a list o f goods that may be purchased
with the proceeds, but Bank policy discourages this.lo

3.9     Inthe TACcase, there was no supplemental letter concerningthe use o f
`counterpart funds.' Bank staff maintain that such use was discussed duringnegotiations,
that they thought this was understood by the Bosniannegotiators and that, inany case,
they hadincludedreferences inthe President's Report as a reminder. The Bosnian
authorities, both at State and Federation level, do not accept that there was any
understanding reached at negotiations (notwithstanding the references inthe project
documentation), and consider that the `counterpart funds' belonged to them, to use as
they thought best inpursuit o fBiH's development.


lo OperationalDirective 8.60, AdjustmentLendingPolicy, December 1992, paragraph52.

                                               13


  3.10   Two other factors are important to recordhere inorder to understand the
 problems that did arise. First, neither the State nor the Federation had inplace acceptable
 budgetformulation or controlmethods. Improvements ingovernmental budgetpractices
  andestablishment of govemmentalaudits were not arrangeduntilPFSAC andPFSAC2
 were beingimplemented. Second, IDA disbursed the proceeds o fthe credit inDM.As
 DMwas thenanoperating currencyoftheborrower, the StateandFederation
 governments were able to make direct use o fthe DMproceeds and their actual use could
 bepreciselytracked.

 3.11 Inthe event, the State used 25 percent o f its share o f 7C proceeds to provide
 credits to state-owned enterprises, 13 percent to support municipalities and 17percent to
 cancel liabilities to domestic commercial banks.Not only were these expenditures
 (amounting to 55 percent o f US$30million, i.e. US$16.5 million) not intendedby IDA,
 andevenoutside the State's ownbudget framework, most o fthem were spent onitems
 which, underDayton, were not even official State responsibilities. One item o f State
 lendingwas DM800,000 to a municipality that was explicitly bannedby OHR from
 receivingany donor support. These uses o f 'counterpart funds' became knownto the first
 IDA TACsupervision mission, butit was already too lateto stop them. A later IDA TAC
 supervision missioninvestigated indepth, and recommended that any repayments o f the
 credits extended by the State to enterprises andmunicipalitiesbe earmarked to a State
 debt-service account. The State arranged to do this and also returned the DM800,000 to
 the State budget. The State Government has defended its use o fthe 'counterpart funds' as
 the best way to achieve the overall objectives o fthe TACcredit.

 3.12    The Federation used 47 percent o f its share o f TACproceeds (about US$28
 million) to provide credits to state-owned enterprises. These credits were made on
generallycommercial criteria, usingprocedures established under the IDA Emergency
Recovery Project, andwere channeled through the bankingsector, which retained the risk
o f default. The Federation Government has said that these expenditures were legitimate
Federation budget expenditures inline with the Dayton Constitution.

3.13    Almost half (US$44.5 million) of TACcounterpart funds were thus known to
have beenused for purposes the Bank didnot intend.It should not be forgotten, however,
that, inthe absenceo f external audit o f State andFederation budget expenditures, the
Bankdoes not know with any certainty what happenedto the remainingUS$45.5 million,
althoughprimafacie they appear to have beenusedproperly.

3.14    A point never madebythe Bankwas that most expenditures from the proceeds of
the TACcredit (whether those inlinewith Bank intentions or not) were madeinDMfor
the procurement o f local goods and services, andthus were expressly unqualified
(paragraph 3.7). As a result, one objective o f 7C-provision    o fbalance o fpayments
support-was     only achieved indirectly and slower than anticipated.

3.15    While not inany way wishing to condone the specific use o f the proceeds o f the
credit that the Bank objected to, one can seriously questionthe Bank's actions inthis
case. An informal supplemental letter to the credit agreement, or a section inthe agreed
minutesofnegotiations, shouldhavebeenissued, to avoid anymiscommunication
between the Bank and its new borrower. More important, Bank staff were well aware o f

                                                      14


    the lack of acceptable budgetprocedures inBiHand o f the absence o f transparency and
    audit o f actual budget expenditures. Although Bank management told OED that they
    were concerned about possible misuse, they didnot know theprecise form it would take.
    There shouldhave been only two options. The first would have beennot to provide
    budget support, but to ensurethat the proceedso fthe TACcredit were only useddirectly
    for international debt payments and imports o fqualified goods and services. That option
    would, however, have removed one o f the major rationales for makingthe TACcredit in
    the first place: budget support. The secondoption would, underthe BiHcircumstances, to
    have changed Bank policy and to have permittedformal agreementwith BiHon the use
    o f `counterpart funds.' While it is too late to do this now inthe Bosnia case, the lesson
    learned i s that the Bank should now change its policy to allow for this ifsimilar cases
    arise inthe future. Such a change inpolicy has apparently beenrecommended inthe past,
    andthe subject remains undermanagement discussion. A change is long overdue.                I'




   PublicFinanceStructuralAdjustment Credit (PFSAC); andthe SecondPublic
   FinanceStructuralAdjustment Credit (PFSAC2)

   3.16     These two public finance structural adjustment credits are treated together as they
   were closely intertwined. PFSACbecame effective onJuly 13, 1998 andclosed on June
   30, 1999. Co-financing o fUS$22.3 million was provided by the Government of the
  Netherlands. PFSAC2 became effective on December 3, 1999 and closed on December
   31,2002, one year late. Co-financing o fUS$23 million was providedby the Government
   o fthe Netherlands and o f US$3 million from the Swiss Federation. As noted in
  paragraph 2.8, the basic objective o fbothwas to establish common institutions and
  governance structures through policy reforms inthe areas discussedbelow.

  3.17     Financing of the State.Daytondidnot provide for the State to have many sources
  o frevenue-the      main one was consular fees-making           it rely for the financing o fits
  budget on the two Entities(Federation andRS).Bank staff encouraged the Entitiesto
  agree that a proportion o f all customs duties collected should go to the State first, rather
  than to the Entities (as provided for inDayton). Without IMF support, the Bank's
  approach was not accepted. But the Entitiesdid accept to agree annually inadvance on
 the size o f the State budget (administrative expenses andextemal debt service), to share
 the administrativeexpenses inthe ratio laid down inDayton (two-thirds Federation;
 one-third RS),and to make one-twelfth o f the agreed amount available to the State on a
 regular monthly basis. PFSACprovided, as conditions o f Boardpresentation and o f
 second tranche release, for this agreement to be formalized, for mutually consistent
 budgets at State and entity levels for the first year to be drafted and adopted, for specific
 accounts to be set up, and for the commencement o f the regular transfer o f funds. All this
was achieved, although there were occasional problems with the timeliness o fthe flow o f
funds. There was no need for further conditionalityunderPFSAC2.The mechanism will


 * *
~                   ~




     The Region notes, "The PPAR's specific recommendation to change IDA audit and and monitoring
policies with regard to quick disbursing operations goes beyond the mandate of the CMU (Country
Management Unit).'' OED notes that PPARs are carried out to provide lessons and recommendations
beyong the specific operations under review, and that the experience under the TAC provides a good
example of why the Bank's policy should be changed.

                                                          15


    now need to be reviewedinthe light o f a recent decision inprinciple to adopt a state-
    wide VAT, which will allow for other possibilitiesalong the lines o fthe original Bank
    ideas.

    3.18     The above illustrates a general point: suchmundane itemsas the setting up of
    accounts, adoption o fbudgets andmakingpayments according to contractual agreements
    freely entered into, should not normally warrant elevation to SAC release conditionality.
    Yet such 'easy' items were habitually difficult inthe Bosnian context o f almost total
    distrust between the various ethnic groups. Hammering out agreement on these matters
    andgettingthemmade effective was a major rolethat the Bankplayedinthe
    implementation o fDayton. Normal ideas conceming'ownership' hadto be put aside for a
    while.

    3.19     External debt management, A State Law on ExternalDebt (June 1997) defines the
   responsibilities o fthe State and the Entities inextemal debt management. It qualifies the
    State's extemal obligations as the only category o fBiHsovereign debt. The State is
   allowed to borrow on behalfo fthe Entities or, with Parliamentary approval, on its own. It
   can also issue guarantees. Entities are allowed to borrow by themselves, but such
   borrowing has sub-national status, like any other local government borrowing. This
   wouldbe unexceptional, ifit were not for the fact that the State didnot have its own
   source o frevenue from which it could service extemal debt. It is dependent on the
   Entitiesproviding it with funds, as per the arrangements described inparagraph 3.17.
   This isnot a solidbasis for internationalcreditworthiness. PFSAC supported initial
   efforts to improve extemal debt management: settingup special debt service accounts,
   adoption and implementationo f entity debt laws consistent with the State debt law,
   regularizationo f debt informationflows and adoption of a coordination agreement.
   Arrangements were made for separately-funded TA to strengthen debt management units.
   All this was done andseems to have assured areliableflow offunds to the State for the
   timely execution ofdebt service payments since 1998.

   3.20     Bythe time ofthe third tranche releaseofPFSAC2, guidelines for prudent
   borrowing operations andpolicycoordination were under implementation. Buildingup a
   track recordo ftimely payments will be fundamentally important when Bosnia tries to
   establish its extemal creditworthiness for market borrowing. There must remain a
   question about this, however, as the basic structure may not be considered robust enough
   untilthe Statehasdirect accessto resources fromwhich it canservice debt. The future
  institutiono f a State-managed VAT system, andmoving customs duty collection to the
   State level, may provide the opportunity for further robustness.''

  3.21     IntergovernmentaZJinances within the Entities. The most hndamental problem
 here i s that some Federation cantons have substantial revenues to carry out their service
 obligations, while others do not; andthe Federation itselfdoes not have authority (or
 sufficient funds) to be able to resolve that problem. Any solutionto this issue requires
political agreement to shift some resources from richer cantons to poorer cantons. The
Bankhasworked strenuously with the authorities on this problem, datingback to TAC

~~~             ~~




 l2  Indeed, BiHdidreceive its first international credit rating inMarch 2004: B3 from Moody's, a less than
investment grade rating. Interestingly, Moody's specifically mentioned the introduction of the new tax
system as a positive credit element.

                                                       16


  preparation, but has never managedto find a formula satisfactory to all concerned parties.
  Neither PFSACnor PFSAC2 has therefore contained conditionality inthis regard, though
 the problem is exposed inproject documentation and separately-funded TA has been
 made available. There has been some (relatively minor) success concerning health
  financing (see below) andPFSACPFSAC2 dialogs on the subject may yet bear fruit.
 Nevertheless, the Bank's interventions so far cannot be classified as successful inthis
 area, although the hndamental responsibilityfor this clearly lies withinBiH.

 3.22     This issue illustrates a situation where the solution to aproblemis essentially
 political andneeds more than a technocratic or legal approach. Insuch a case, it might be
 preferable to make the achievement o f certain end results, satisfactory to the Bank, the
 condition for tranche release o f an adjustment credit.I3

 3.23     Harmonizing taxes and coordinating tax collection. The Bankhas rightlystressed
 the importance o f creatinga `single economic space' inBosnia, so that firms can easily
 operate across both Entities.An important aspect ofthis i s the harmonizationo f sales and
 excise taxes across the Entities.Inaddition, it i s important from a tax collection
 viewpoint to ensure that such taxes are collected ina coordinated way, avoiding double
 taxation but also reducingtax evasion possibilities; andtax competitionbetween the
 Entitieswould not be helphl to BiHoverall. Lowering tax rates was also important, as
 discussed inthe Introduction. Hence the Bankmade the adoption of amendments to
 Federation and RS tax laws conditions o ftranche release underbothPFSAC and
 PFSAC2.Progress hasbeensubstantial, though not continuous, with someregression at
 times. Strong interventions from the Bank and other donors were required inthis
 politically sensitive area.

 3.24    A major point o fcontention concerned the collectionpoint for sales taxes on
 excisable goods. Inthe Federation, mainly inorder to reduce tax evasion, sales tax was
 collected at the point o f manufacture or importation (at `wholesale'). InRS, it was
 collected at the more usualpoint, at final sale (at `retail'). Without harmonization, goods
wholesaled inthe Federationandthen retailed inRS would (at least initially) be subject
to two sets o f sales tax; whereas, inthe opposite direction, sales tax might easily be
evaded entirely. Since tax evasion was rampant (that on hightariffgoods and tobacco
products alone was estimated to be DM300 million, equivalent to US$140million), the
Bank favoredharmonizationaround the Federation practice, alongwith a formulabased
systemto ensurethat the revenuesreachedthe entity/canton of final sale, with
redistribution of revenues across cantons towards greater equalization. UnderPFSAC,
RSprepared amendments to its laws to incorporate this change (condition ofBoard
presentation), with their adoption a condition o f second tranche release. RS thereafter
suspendedimplementationinAugust 1998. Further amendments were adopted by


l3 The Regionhas commented, "...the Bank's policy of sequencedthematic SACSwas a deliberate effort to
follow through with implementation ofa much needednew legislative framework. Furthermore, inan
ongoingBusinessEnvironment Adjustment Operation, the Bank has also strived to focus on some
"outcome indicators" of achievement o fresults, inaddition to legislative and regulatory change.
Nevertheless, the imperative to have the right legal and regulatory environment as the basis o f reform
remains, and will have to continue to be the focus of future adjustment operations." OED notes that the
approachusedinthe operation cited, which defmes results as legal conditions for trancherelease, is a
promising one.

                                                      17


  Parliament inDecember; but effective implementationwas again delayed and eventually
  put aside. Inthe meantime,the secondtranche ofPFSAChadbeenreleased (paragraph
  3.38). However, as PFSAC2 was under preparation, the issue couldbe taken up there.
  While the above history was not mentionedinPFSAC2 project documentation-a                         lack o f
  transparency-PFSA C2 again requiredcompletiono ftheharmonizationprocess, without
  this time specifying the particularmodality, as tranche releaseconditionality.

  3.25    Although the Bank continuedto prefer the Federation solution, inthe event the
 Federation chose to adopt the RS solution. While the Bankreiteratedthat this would lead
 to a reduction intax revenues, it felt it had no choice but to accept the decision, as it did
 meet the requirement for harmonizationand as the IMFmade it clear it actually favored
 the RS ~olution.'~Tax revenue did decline. Eventually (only in2002), the Federation and
 RS decided-with        IMFacceptance-to        experiment by changing the point o f collection
 back from retail to wholesale, but only for tobacco. As this shift was successful, it was
 followed inmid-2003 by applyingthis change more generally. Tax revenues again
 increased (September and October 2003) but then declined (November 2003); as of the
 timeo fwritingthis PPAR, itwas not clear why tax revenues haddeclined, nor whether
 this decline was temporary or the beginningo f a downward trend.

 3.26     There were good arguments infavor o fthe RS solution, for example the simpler
 paperwork needed for the attribution o ftax revenues. However, the Bankthought that, in
 the light o f the tax evasion it saw actuallyhappening, the balance o f arguments lay in
 favor o f the Federation solution. The Bank could have beeneven more insistent inits
 dialogwith the IMFon this point andproceeded with its own position, or dropped actions
 inthis field. Butit should nothave acquiescedto, inthe sense ofcontinuingto disburse
 into, a positionwith which it strongly di~agreed.'~         Inanyevent,itwasunfortunate-
 though probably inevitable-that the IMNBankdisagreement became known within BiH.
 A better approach would havebeen a direct assault on tax evasion (paragraph 2.10) and
 this raises a question about the relevance o f the policyconditionality.

 3.27    Notwithstandingthis particular episode, a great deal was achieved under
PFSAC/PFSAC2 inthe taxationharmonizationandcoordinationareas, as well as some
important reductions inoverall tax rates. Part o f the reason for this success was the way
inwhichPFSAC/PFSAC2were preparedandsupervised, perhaps representinga `best
practice' (next paragraph).16

3.28     The Bank arranged for substantial amounts o fTA to be brought to bear on the
multitude o fproblem policy areas faced byBiH.This had two useful facets. First, o f
course, much o fthe TA brought knowledgewhich was not available internally, as BiH


l4 Federation staffinformed the PPARmission that they felt it better to accept the RS solution than not to
have harmonization at all. They were aware ofthe IMFBank disagreementon the matter.
   The Regionhas noted, "As OED knows.,.inthe division o f labor amongthe BrettonWoods institutions,
the IMFdoes take the lead insettingtax policy." OED notes that although ingeneral this is the case, in
Bosnia Herzegovina, the Bank had initially taken the lead on all tax issues, especially onharmonization.
l6 The commentsinparagraph 3.28 apply equally to some other areas ofPFSAC and PFSAC2-as           well as
SOSAC/SOTAC/SOSAC2-         butwill notberepeated indiscussionofthem.

                                                  18


  hadbeen isolatedduringthe wars and as its recent pre-war experience was withinthe old
  Yugoslav socialist system. Second, andperhapsmore important, the Bank found that it
  was more productive to bringthe Federation andRS officials together for detailed
  discussions o fharmonizedpolicy reform, ifthose meetingswere informed by active TA
  participants from outside BiH; otherwise, the mistrustbetweenthe Federation andRS
  either preventedjoint meetingsfrom takingplace at all or adversely affected them. The
  TA was sometimes providedbyconsultants andsometimes byBank staffdirectly. Bank
  files are filled with evidence o f this effort, which was extraordinary by any standard, in
  both depth andbreadth. It requiredextreme hard-work, diligence andunderstanding on
  thepart ofBankstaff, andthe task manager inparticular, which should berecognized.
  OEDheardmany expressions along these lines while onmissioninBiH.

  3.29    Pension reform. Rights to post-war pensions were not always clear, as
  contribution andidentification records hadbeen lost, there was no communication
  between Entities andmanydisplaced people hadto bepaidpensions by one entity, while
  their earningperiodhad been spent inthe other entity. Separatepension systems had
  developed, not only betweenthe two Entities, but also between the Bosniak and Croat
  communitieswithin the Federation. These systems were all pay-as-you-go, but the
 Bosnianeconomy had collapsed so there was a very small wage tax base. As Entitieshad
 severe budgetproblems, they were not able to subsidize their pension schemes. Arrears
 hadbuilt up, some o fthem settled through the voucher driven privatization program
 (paragraph 1.10) and some through cash budgetary transfers. There was a tendency to
 respond to political pressures by increasing entitlements, which simply meant that arrears
 grew faster.

 3.30     The most immediate problem tackled under PFSAC was to bringfinancial
 stability to the two Federation schemes, through formal limitation o fpensionclaims to
 the amounts actually collectedthroughwage taxes eachmonth, preventingthe build-up
 o f fkrther arrears. Usefil work was also done intidying up, and tightening, many
 technical pension provisions. Work begun earlier on preparing for the unification o f the
 two ethnically-based Federation schemes was intensified, andwork started on the
 improvement of information flows between the two Entities and on the development o f
more comprehensive medium-term pensionreforms. PFSAC2 requiredthe preparationo f
actuarial projectionsbybothEntities as a condition o f credit effectiveness. These formed
the basis for the Entities to define new benefit formula andeligibility criteria conducive
to a longrunbalance inpensionfinances-to           be adopted as a second tranche release
condition and to be under implementationby the time o f third tranche release. Some
loopholes that emerged inthe cash rationing approach supported byPFSACwere closed
bymore automatic, disciplinedprovisions supported byPFSAC2 andmandated by OHR.
PFSAC2 also providedfor the merging o fthe two separate Federationschemes, which
proved to be extremely difficult politically and technically because o f different payment
and contributionrates. Inthe end, the necessarylegislationwas enacted also only under
the powers o f the OHR, but implementationdid then follow. The result o f all these
measures is that pensions, albeit lower thanoriginal entitlements, are now paidregularly,
the schemesare infinancial balance andthere is a greater degree o f equity involved, with
the minimumpension more secure andraisedto a more adequate level. One result is that
the Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) shows that the incidence o fpoverty

                                                      19


   amongpensioners is less thanthat inthe population overall (13.O percent versus
   19.5 percent)."

   3.3 1 Morework still needs to be done inthe pension reform area. A promising sign o f
  cooperation between the Federation andRS i s that they are close to agreement on a
  Memorandum o fUnderstanding (MOU) for the mutualrecognitiono fpensionpayment
  obligations. I t i s expectedthat final agreement on the MOUand its satisfactory
  implementationwill be conditions o fthe forthcoming SOSAC2 operation. While not
  muchprogress has yet beenmade indevelopingmore comprehensive proposals for the
  longer-term pension needs o fBiH, the subject is beingtaken up systematically under the
  Social Insurance TechnicalAssistanceProject (SITAP), approved inFY03 andcurrently
  under implementation.

  3.32     Veterans'benefits. A start was made under PFSACinyet another politically
  charged area severely affecting entity finances. The Federation andRS were requiredto
  submit to the Bank a comprehensive analysis o fbeneficiaries, and did so. For the first
  time, the Entities have a clear idea ofwhere these benefits are going. This, combinedwith
  TA providedunder the Social Sector TechnicalAssistance Credit (SOTAC) andm h e r
  steps under SOSAC,i s expected to lead to substantial legislationandother actions to be
  supported under the forthcoming SOSAC2.

 3.33     Healthfinance. While the Bankwas assisting BiH's healthsector reforms through
 investment projects, it also tackled some important health finance issues through
 PFSAC2. Cantons are too small individually to form good actuarial sets on which to base
 healthcare finance. PFSAC2 therefore supported the establishment o f a Federation
 Health Insurance Fund(FHIF) and individual cantonal healthinsurance funds.
 Considerable progress hasbeen made. Today, cantonal healthfunds channel
 contributions ina transparent manner and offer more equitable access for health services
 to all ethnic groups within the canton-excepf inone `mixed' canton (Mostar) where
 unification o ftwo ethnically-based health funds only took place in2003 andjudgment as
 to its proper functioning cannot yet bemade. The FHDFhasbeen established and i s
 functioning, fundedboth fiom the Federationbudget and transfers fiom cantonal health
 insurance revenues.IsIt finances health services for certainhighcost catastrophic
 illnesses, thereby reducingwide variations across cantons inaccess to these particular
 services. So far, however, this measure does relatively little to reduce the wide disparities
 inper capitahealthspendingacross cantons.1gThe sustainability o fthe present system
must remainindoubt, pendingmore fundamental reforms inthe critical areas being
analyzed through the SITAP:tax evasion, inequalitiesinaccess and inthe burdeno f
financing, andhealth system effectiveness andefficiency.

3.34      InRS,theprincipalhealthfinanceproblemwasto ensureimprovedefficiencyin
the use o f funds, including a stronger emphasis onprimaryandbasic health needs, and in
collecting healthcontributions. Guidelines inthese respects were adopted as a second


"  See Bosnia and Herzegovina Country Assistance Evaluation (Report no. 29824), paragraph 3.20.
Is The establishmento fFHIFwas also designed to have a demonstration effect-that     it is possible for the
cantons and the Federation to work together to resolve issues o fcross-cantonalfinancial disparity.
l9 These judgments come fiom the PFSAC2 ICR, as the PPAR mission did not have time to look into these
aspects during its mission.

                                                20


  tranche release condition. There seems to have been substantial progress inshifting
  expenditures towards primary healthcare andinimproved efficiency, though it i s too
  early to tell whether these are sustainable. Someprogress has beenmade concerning
  collection o fhealth contributions, but, as inthe Federation, real progress will be
  dependent on a more major reformprogramonthe lines beinganalyzed by SITAP.

  3.35    Budget management. PFSAC/PFSAC2have supported a useful stream o fbudget
  management improvements, backed upby T A financed from elsewhere. Two elements o f
  this haveparticularimportance. Thefirst is the establishment ofaTreasury system,
  whereby all receipts and expenditures passthrough a single Treasury account, with
  appropriate reporting capabilities. The TA for this was suppliedprincipally by the U.S.
  Treasury andUSAID, backedup byPFSAC2 third tranche release conditionality that the
  State and the two Entities would have begunoperating with a Single Treasury Account.
  Allthis hashappenedsuccessfblly, withimprovedbudgetarycontrol andtransparency,
  according to the BiHSupreme Audit Institution (SAI). The Treasury systemi s now being
  extended to the cantonal level and i s proposed for most budget-funded institutions.

  3.36    Another important improvement initially proved to have a short life. The Bank
  was anxious that the Entities place their annual budgets into a longer term framework, so
 provided T A for initial Budget Framework Papers (also called a Medium Term
 Expenditure Frameworks (MTEF)), to be approvedby entity Cabinets and used to guide
 the 2001 budgets (PFSAC2tranche releasecondition). This happened, apparently
 successfully and usefully. The Bank assumedthat this would become an annual exercise
 andwould spread to the development o fsector strategy frameworks as well. Butno
 MTEFswere producedto guide the 2002 and2003 budget exercises, andthe Banknow
 proposes that MTEFsto guide the 2004 and2005 budgets be required as tranche release
 conditions for the forthcomingEMSACoperation. MTEFs have therefore already been
 preparedfor guidingthe 2004 budgets, although some o fthe spending limits inRSwere
 exceeded. The Federation found this latest exercise to beparticularly usefbl as it
 highlightedthe effects that declining aid resources would have on the Federation's ability
 to make expenditures beyond2004, which helpedindetermining expenditure patterns
 also for 2004. The Federation and RS assuredthe PPARmission that the absence o f
 MTEFs for the 2002 and 2003 budgetsdid not reflect a lack o f ownership, but simply
 lack o ftrained staff to carry them out.

3.37     Internal controls and external auditing. A troubling gap inBiH'spublic finance
structure was lack o f internal control over budget expenditure (particularly before the
advent o fthe Single Treasury Account system) ando f extemal audit. Provisionwas made
underPFSACfor TA to do preparatory work inthese areas. PFSAC2 containedtranche
release conditionality concerning the drafting and passage o f appropriate legislation at the
State and entity levels, the appointment o f Auditor-Generals andthe actual
implementation o f State andentity SAIs. There was significant resistance, but it was
overcome and the three SAIs are now up andrunning.A State-level Deputy Auditor-
General opined that, without active Bankinvolvement, the SAIs would not exist today.
However, while the SAIs are producing useful reports, there is a troubling lack o f
response at governmental andparliamentarylevels. Governments do not feel obliged to
take actions on SA1reports, and do not respond with time-bound actionplans to put right
anyweaknesses exposed. Parliaments have not yet learned how to makeproper use o f

                                              21


  SA1reports intheir role as government watchdogs, so it i s difficult to obtain appropriate
  budget allocations for the SAIs. These issuesare to beaddressedbythe forthcoming
  EMSACoperation.

  3.38    Pattern of tranche releases. PFSACwas a two tranche operation. The first tranche
  was releasedinJuly 1998, a couple o fmonths later than originally planned. The second
  tranche was released inmid-December 1998, compared to an original date o f August
  1998. On December 1, the Bank asked the Board for a partialwaiver o f two second
 tranche conditions not yet met by RS. RS was forming a new government inthe light o f
 the September elections, andit was not certainwhentwo pieces o flegislation, already
 submitted to Parliament, would be adopted. Inthe event, they were adopted early in
 December. Giventhe history o fthe particular piece o f legislationrelated to taxes
 (paragraph 3.24), it was by no means certainthat Parliament would approve it as drafted.
 IfParliamentdidapprove itrapidly(as itturnedout), thentherewouldbenoneedfor a
 waiver. But ifParliament didnot accept it, or did so with a substantial delay, then the
 waiver would be unjustified. The request for the waiver was therefore misplaced.

 3.40    Releaseconditionality underPFSAC2-a         three-tranche operation-was   more
 tightlycontrolledandno waivers were sought. Rather, the second andthird tranche were
 delayed, the latter substantially. The closing date, originally December 31, 2001, was first
 extended to June 30,2002, and finally to December 31,2002. Interestingly, the latter
 extension was to provide the Bank with convincing evidence o f satisfactory
 implementation, over a period o ftime, of some policy reforms, showing that the Bank
 had learned from earlier experience.

 Social SectorAdjustmentCredit (SOSAC)

 3.40    SOSACbecame effective on June 18,2001 and closed on August 30,2001. It was
 a singletranche operation. There was no co-financing. A companion technical assistance
 (TA) operation-Social    Sector TechnicalAssistance Credit (SOTAC), specifically
 designed to prepare reforms to be supported by SOSAC2-is        still under implementation
 andis not assessedinthis PPAR.

 3.41    Although a single tranche operation, like TAC,the circumstances were totally
different. Enoughactions hadbeentaken already by governments inthe social sector that
warranted a tranche release, but not enough technical work had been done to be able to
determine, at that time, preciselywhat the later tranches would look like. Arrangements
were therefore made for the companion TA operation. Manyo f the intended SOSAC2
first tranche conditions have already beenmet, but that operation was initially held up by
election-related difficulty incoming to agreement on reform o fveterans' benefits; it was
eventually approved by the Bank inJune 2004.

3.42     The actions taken whichjustified SOSACcoveredpreliminaryactivities ina
number o f social protectionareas, as well as tackling some critical labor market issues.
These are summarized below. As they were all completed prior to Boardpresentation,
there are no issues concerning immediate implementation. Although some initial positive
effects canbe seen, a fuller assessmentwill have to await the implementation of a wider

                                                    22


   package, including this SOSAC, SOTAC and SOSAC2,as they form different aspects o f a
   single reform area.?'

   3.43    Socialprotection policy and institutionalframework. Boththe Federation andRS
  hadprepared and approved Social ProtectionExpenditure Strategies for the period
  2000-2003, as part o fthe overall Budget Framework Paper approach which formed part
  o fPFSAC2 (paragraph 3.36). They were satisfactory to the Bank.The expenditure
  strategies then allowed the two Entities to prepare draR Social Protection Strategies for
  the same period, which were appropriately constrained to be financially viable. Both
  these draft strategies were satisfactory to the Bank. For the first time, a framework was
  developed for prioritizing social protection expenditures,with some participants inthe
  process working together for the first time.

  3.44    Socialprotection programs. Boththe Federation andRShad submitted reports on
  social assistance, outlining options for improved social assistance, including financing
  mechanisms, targetingcriteria andbenefit administration. They were satisfactory to the
  Bank.The two Entities similarly presentedreports ontheir disabilityprograms. As a
  result, a foundation was laid for improving the efficiency o f the social safety net inways
  to be supported by SOSACZ.

  3.45    Social statistics. Boththe Federation andRS took a series o ftechnical steps which
  would enhance the development o fbetter social statistics: household survey teams were
  established, including staffdedicated to development o f a samplingframe; progress
  satisfactory to the Bank hadbeenmade incompleting a technicalplanfor creating master
  samples; and Open Access Data Agreements were approved for household surveyresults.
  These steps were instrumentalinensuring progress inimplementingLSMS. A strong
  foundation was thus provided for an improved social statistics system.

 3.46     Labor markets. Incontrast to the preparatory nature o f the precedingthree items,
which can only be truly assessedinthe longer term when one can see what use was made
 o fthem, the SOSACinvolvement inlabor markets was substantive initself. New labor
 and employment laws were adopted inboththe Federation andRS to address a rangeo f
problems with the existing laws, which retainedthe inheritance o f socially managed
firms, where enterprises acceptedwelfare functions which are the responsibility o f
government inmarket economies. Inthe process o f developing reforms inthis area, the
partnership with ILO was particularlyimportant inlendinglegitimacy to those reforms,
especially among labor unions. The results are labor and employment laws that reflect
modem Europeanpractice suitable to a market economy, while still respecting basic
workers' rights and remaining consistent with all o fBiH's ILO convention obligations.
There i s evidence that the changes are removing potentially serious obstacles to the
economic transition, andthere i s some anecdotal evidence that they have started to have a
positive effect. A survey o f 12 private start-up and newlyprivatizedcompanies found that
managers now viewed the labor and employment laws as liberal andno longer an
obstacle for doing business. A well-functioning labor market is, o f course, particularly


*' This PPAR included coverage of SOSACinthe interest of gaining as much insight as possible into
completed Bank operations as an input into the Country Assistance Evaluation.

                                                23


  important ina currency board regime like that o f BiH: since the nominal exchange rate is
  fixed, wage cost rigidities can quickly translate into a loss o f competitiveness.

  3.47    Ofcourse, these labor andemployment laws deal with only some ofthe factors
 retarding the hrther development o f BiH's private sector. While they should assist in
  encouraging additional employment and infurtheringthe privatizationo f large-scale
  enterprises, neither o f these are taking place on the scale desired, for reasons outlined
 earlier. Itwill thus take time before the full effects o fthe new laws will be felt.

 3.48     Governments appeared to be genuinely appreciative o fthe TA that was provided
 bythe Bank, either byconsultants hired underSOTACor byBankstaffthemselves.



 4.       Assessmentof Outcomes and other Ratings

 TransitionAssistanceCredit (TAC)

 4.1     Relevance. Although political reality made them only a pale shadow o f what was
 originally intended, actual TACobjectives were consistent with the Bank'scountry
 assistance strategy. Support to BiH's balance o fpayments, to State debt service and to the
 Federation's budgetwere important. Although the functions o fthe FederalPayments
 Bureaus were transferred to the commercialbankingsector and cantonal governments in
 2001, this could not have been anticipated in 1996 and including their unification was
 also relevant at the time, Off-setting this, the institutionaldevelopment aimed for within
 the Federation was only modest. And there were no importantpolicy reforms. Overall,
 relevance i s ratedmodest.

 4.2     Efficacy. The Federation Customs Administration was established ina unified
manner-the      immediate TACobjective. For political reasons, it was unable to prevent
major smuggling. I t is now expected to be merged into a State-wide customs
administration-a    positive development. The overall objective was largely achieved.
Similarly, the FederationPayments Bureau operated reasonably effectively for a few
years, even ifnever fully unified, which was the immediate TACobjective. Passageo fthe
Federation BankingAgency Law-the           immediate TACobjective-was         only a first step
intheprocessofdevelopment o fthe privatebankingsector, butthat development was
mainly successful thereafter, so the achievement o fthis objective i s considered highly
satisfactory. While the presentation to Parliamento f a FederationPrivatization Agency
Law took place-the      immediate TACobjectiveand while this resultedinlater adoption
o fthe law and (withsome delays) the establishment o f the agencies, the privatization
program itselfwas largely a failure. This objective was not achieved.

4.3     However, a major TACobjective was budget support for such items as costs
related to the demobilization o f soldiers, a pensionscheme, an emergency social fund and
a minimumhealthcare scheme, as well as funding for external debt. Inthe event, almost
halfo fthe proceeds o fthe IDA credit were used for purposes which the Bank didnot
thinkwereproper. BiHhaddifficulty infindingfinds to payBankdebt service for the

                                                  24


  next few years. The Bank suffered public relations problems inBiHwhen it became
  known how the TACproceeds had actually beenused. Handlingo fFPBunification
  conditionality had adverse effects on Bank-BiHrelations for some time. Pushingthrough
  the credit before RS started playing a full role inState govemment caused future
  problems inRS-Bank relations. Inthese important aspects, TAChad major shortcomings.

  4.4      Outcome. The overall outcome o fthe TAC,consideringits largely relevant
  objectives, but a mix o fhighlysatisfactory and highly unsatisfactory achievement o f
 those objectives, is rated unsatisfactory. The ICRrated the TACoutcome as satisfactory,
  as did OED's evaluation summary,mainly because although it had similar (although not
 identical) ratings on the individualcomponents, it weighted them differently, givingless
 weight to the unsatisfactoryaspects.

 4.5       Sustainability. While the Federation Customs Administration i s expected to have
 a limited life, its sustainabilityis rated likely as it will bemerged into a wider
 organization which will likelyprove resilient to future risks. The Federation Payments
 Bureaui s already defunct, havingbeen found eventually to be unnecessary; so it proved
 completely non-resilient to risk andtherefore its sustainability highly unlikely. The
 Federation BankingAgency and associatedprivatebankingsystem are on solid footing
 andtheir resilienceto risk is considered highly likely. Bycontrast, the future o fthe
 Federation and Cantonal PrivatizationAgencies and associated privatizationprogram (in
 the form o fthe voucher design then envisaged) i s unlikelyto withstand pressuresto
 privatize more quickly andto improve corporate governance, so sustainabilityo f these
 institutions i s unlikely. Givingthe benefit o fthis finely balanced set o fratings to the
 project, overall sustainability is rated as likely. The ImplementationCompletionReport
 (ICR) rating was uncertain (quite valid at the time), as was the OED evaluation summary
 rating.

 4.6     Institutional development impact. Again, TAChas a mix o f institutional
 development impact: on the one hand, reforms relatedto customs administration and
 bankingcanbe considered to be first steps toward substantial institutionalimpact. Onthe
 other, a number o freforms introduced had minimal or no positive institutional
 development impact: the privatizationagency law was adopted, but the agency andthe
program themselves have not proceeded well, so interms o f impact on the privatization
process, it was negligible. Similarly with the paymentsbureaus, whose functions have
been transferred to banks. Overall the ratingon institutional development impact is
modest. The ICR rating waspartial, with which OED's evaluation summary agreed.

4.7      Borrowerperformance. Although the borrower, with some, but not total,
justification, does not believe it used the TACcounterpart f h d s wrongly, the PPAR
assesses borrower performanceto be, overall, unsatisfactory. It was clearly not inthe
spirit o f the loan to use its proceeds, as the borrower did, as credit to state owned
enterprises, to retire liabilities to banks, to f h d municipalities, expenditures which were
outside the responsibility o fthe state. The ICRrating varied from highly satisfactory in
the preparationphase, deficient duringimplementation and operation andsatisfactory for
covenant compliance. OED's evaluation summary didnot rate borrower performance.

                                               25


  4.8     Bankperformance. Although the Bank dida goodjob inidentifyingneeded
  reforms inmany areas such as the bankingsector, customs administration, andthe
  payments system, inimportant aspects, Bankperformance was inadequate. It should
  have reducedthe amount o f the credit to the very muchreduced content o f the TAC
  operation (paragraphs 2.5 and 2.6); should not have rushedto judgment on the payments
  bureau inorder to make the credit effective (paragraphs 3.4 and 3.5); and should not have
  encouraged the borrower to proceed with a voucher driven privatization(paragraph 3.2).
  The Bank did not adequately communicate with the newborrower on the Bank's
  expectations about the use o f counterpart funds (paragraphs 3.7 - 3.13); and should
  arguably have not approved budget support ina non-transparent situationwithout
  appropriate safeguards. Overall, Bank performance i s rated unsatisfactory. The ICR
  rating was satisfactory during identification, and highly satisfactoly duringpreparation,
  appraisal and supervision. The OED evaluation summary gives a combinedrating o f
 satisfactoly.


 PublicFinanceSector Adjustment Credit(PFSAC); and the SecondPublicFinance
 SectorAdjustment Credit (PFSACZ)

 4.9     Relevance. PFSAC/PFSAC2objectives were consistent with the Bank's country
 assistance strategy. There were some elements-such      as tackling tax evasion more
 directly-that    mighthavebeenincludedas beingeven morerelevant (paragraphs
 2.9-2-12),but which were not. Overall, relevance o fboth operations i s rated substantial.

 4.10    Efficacy. Inmost PFSAC/PFSAC2areas, achievements were largely inlinewith
 the objectives, inthe narrow sense. Financingmechanisms for the State were put in
 place; external debt management was strengthened and the flow of funds to the State for
 external debt service has been timely since 1998. There hasbeen substantial progress in
 harmonizingtaxes and coordinatingtax collection across Entities, and some progress on
 reducingoverall tax rates. Reforms of the pension systems started under PFSACwere
 continued underPFSAC2,and objectives underthis component were met, althoughmuch
 remains to be done to put pensions on a sustainable footing. The objectives o f improving
budgetary management, internalcontrols, and external auditing were met, although in
terms o f impact, some o f the achievements inthis area have not yet materialized. For
example, the SAIs (audit institutions) are all functioning, butproper use i s not yet being
made o ftheir reports.

4.II Outcome. The overall outcome is considered satisfactoly, especially given the
difficult political background. ICRs for both projects rated outcome as satisfactory, as did
OED's evaluation summaries.

4.11 Sustainability. Tax harmonization appears to be locked inand i s likely to prove
resilient to risk. Current pension arrangements, by contrast, will becomemore fragile as
the economy grows and sustainability will depend on whether a longer term system can
bedeveloped. Federationhealth funding arrangements mustbe considered temporary, but
seem to be working well now. Budget improvements could easily be upset, depending on
the attitudes o f future governments, although the prospect o ffuture entry into the
EuropeanUnionwill probably keep them effective. Debt arrangements are fine for

                                                  26


  present conditions, but it i s not clear that these will suffice when BiHwants to enter
  international financial markets. The Treasury system seems robust, as do the SAIs as
  institutions. Overall, the PPAR considers sustainability o f outcomes as likely. This was
  also thejudgment o fboth ICRs and OED's evaluation summaries.

 4.12     Institutional development. Institutional development impacts o fPFSAC and
 PFSAC2 have been considerable. Debtmanagement units arenow well established, as are
 the SAIs. The knowledge and experience gained bythe Federationhealthhndswill
 remain invaluable, even ifthe overall system needs to change over time. Budgetary
 formulation knowledgehasbeen institutionallyimbedded, though the carrying out o f
 MTEFsis still largely anelement conducted byconsultants. Staffdealingwithpension
 issues inthe FederationandRS seem to have absorbed all the knowledge that the extemal
 TA brought, andhavenow builttheir own experience basethrough tryingconditions.
 Overall, the PPARrates institutionaldevelopment impact o fboth operations as high. The
 ICR for PFSACratedinstitutionaldevelopment as substantial andthe OED evaluation
 summary agreed; it i s upgraded here mainlybecausethese impacts are considered
 particularly commendable inlight o fthe political difficulties o f achievingthem. The ICR
 for PFSAC2 rated institutionaldevelopment as high and OED's evaluation summary
 concurred.

4.13     Borrowerperformance. Insofar as the outcomes are satisfactory, for which the
borrower must take ultimateresponsibility, and sustainabilitylikely, borrower
performance would normally be rated as satisfactory. There were however several
instances o f delays andback-tracking(albeit put back on track) andthe OHR hadto
intervene decisively ina few instances. Overall, therefore, borrower performancei s rated
as satisfactory, but with major weaknesses. Both ICRs rated borrower performanceas
satisfactory, as did the OED evaluationsummaries.

4.14     Bankperformance. The dedication, effectiveness and empathy o f Bank staff
working on BiHwas exceptionally good. The steady tightening o fthe handlingo ftranche
releases was commendable. However, some elements could have beenusefully included
intheprojects, butwere nottackled. Inaddition, the Bankmighthavepushedharder
against an IMFposition than it did. Overall, the PPARrates Bankperformance as
satisfactory. BothICRsrate Bankperformance as satisfactory, confirmed by OED's
evaluation summary.

Social SectorAdjustmentCredit (SOSAC)

4.15    Relevance, eficacy, outcome. As noted inthe precedingchapter, it is difficult to
assess the fullimpact o fSOSACinisolation from the yet-to-be-completed SOTAC and
what are ina sense later tranches o fSOSAC,i.e. SOSAC2,approved only inJune 2004.
Nevertheless, OED considers that the relevance o fSOSAC's objectives were substantial
and that the objectives were achieved. The PPARtherefore concurs with the ICR rating
and OED evaluation summary rating o fsatisfactory for outcome.

4.16    Institutional development impact. Again, the full impact o f the measures on
social protection are likely to take time andrequire W h e r action, although the drafting
o f coordinated budget framework and social protection strategies across Entities may

                                              27


 contribute to the creationo f the "single economic space" that may prove critical to
 Bosnia's future. Inaddition, for labor markets, a recent survey o fprivate firms suggests
 that labor regulations are no longer perceived as an obstacle for doing business
 (paragraph 3.46). Institutionaldevelopment impact i s considered substantial, concurring
 with boththe ICR and the OEDevaluation summaryratings.

 4.17    Sustainability. Although there are risks that the Entities will not continue to work
 together on coordinating their social protectionprograms, the implementation o fboth
SOTACandSOSAC2 will enforce the resilience to these risks o fthe achievements made
 to date. Inaddition, given the dialogue with the EuropeanUnionandthe possibility o f
eventual EUassociation, it is likely that the labor market reforms will be sustainable.
Overall, sustainability o f outcomes i s considered likely, as it was at the time o f the ICR
andthe OED evaluationsummary.

4.18     Borrower performance. Governments met all conditions for tranche release
(summarized inparagraphs 3.43 through 3.46), which consisted for the most part o f
reports and strategy papers with respect to social protection reforms; these were far from
trivial, however, as it involved cooperation across Entities to produce the frameworks. In
addition, inlabor market reform, both Entities adopted, inpartnership with the ILO, labor
andemploymentlaws that were consistent with Europeanpractices. Borrower
performance is considered satisfactory as it was inthe ICR and the OED evaluation
summary.

4.19     Bankperformance. The ICR rated Bank performance as highly satisfactory,
while the OED evaluation summary ratingwas satisfactory; although OED inits
evaluation summary considered that Bank performance duringpreparation hadbeen
highly satisfactory, it thought that there should havebeenmonitoringindicators included
for the implementationphase and that the Bank shouldhave given more attentionto the
potential social impact o f the new labor laws. This PPARrates Bank performanceas
highly satisfactory, becauseo fthe carefulpreparation o f the operation, the emphasis on
coordinationacross Entities, the care taken to put inplace a SOTACto provide the basis
for follow up reforms, and the formulation o fthat follow up under SOSAC2.


5.      Lessons

        When original design intentions for a quick-disbursing operationhave to be
        drastically reduced inscope, inthe face of practical and political difficulties, then
        this should give riseto areassessmentofthe whole operation, inparticular the
        credit amount, to ensure that there remains a relationship betweenthat amount
        andthepolicy adjustments being supported.

    0   Providing general budget support into a situation where there i s virtually no
        auditing of, or accountability for, government expenditures i s unwise, inthe
        absenceo f a watertight, monitorableagreement with the borrower on the use o f
        those funds. Insofar as current IDApolicy i s not to concern itselfwith the use o f
        h d s inaquick-disbursing operation, then either that policyhasto change or IDA
       has to forego the provision o fbudget support insuch circumstances.

                                        28


  Providingbudget support, inthe face o fmajor tax evasion and excessive
  government expenditures, can bepotentially counter-productive, inthe absence o f
  an agreed and concerted direct attack on those elements. Otherwise the presence
  o fbudget support reducesthe naturalpressure on governments to take urgent and
  meaningful action.

  Inasituationwherethereisnotclearborrowercommitmenttoacourseofaction,
  or there i s a history o fback-tracking or non-implementationo f laws and
  regulations, the mere passageo f legislationor promulgationo fregulations is not
  usually a good basis for tranche release conditionality. There also needs to be a
  periodo f implementationor, better, release conditionalitybasedon actual results
  achieved.

  Onany issue, includingmacro-economic andtax-related issues, IDA should
  maintain an independent position. Ifthere i s disagreement between IDA andthe
  InternationalMonetary Fund(&IF), IDA support shouldbe basedon its own
  assessment.

0 Inahighlychargedpoliticalatmosphere,progresscanbeachievedbybringing
  conflicting parties together for technical discussions, with IDA staff or TA
  consultants present. To be successful, however, it requires the involvement o f
  particularly empathetic staff, the careful choice andbriefingofTA consultants,
  andintensive supervision-all ofwhich happened under the two PFSAC
  operations andSOSAC. Inthese respects, these three operations represent good
 practice.

  When a long and complicated agenda o freforms i s needed and where future
 detailed actions can only be properly prescribedafter further discussions and
 developments on the ground, careful sequencing o f operations is required. This
 was done for PFSACandPFSAC2,to be followed bythe proposed Economic
 Management SAC; and for SOSAC,to be followed by the proposed SOSAC2.
 Such careful sequencing is another example o f goodpractice. By contrast, there
 was no immediate follow-up to TAC,compounding its poor design as a one-
 tranche operation.

                                                     29                                                   Annex A


                                Annex A: BasicData Sheet

 TRANSITION         ASSISTANCE         CREDIT(CR. 2914)

 Kev ProiectData(amounts in US$million)
                                                   Appraisal          Actual or                 Actual as % of
                                                   estimate        current estimate           appraisal estimate
 Originalcommitment                                 90.0                 90.13                       100.14
 Total cancellation
 Total projectcost
 Cancellation


 ProjectDates
                                                           Original                             Actual
 Departureof AppraisalMission                             May 1996                            May 1996
 Board approval                                        Sept. 5. 1996                         Sept. 5, 1996
Signing                                                Sept. 6, 1996                         Sept. 6, 1996
Effectiveness                                          Sept. 11, 1996                       Sept. 11, 1996
Closingdate                                            Dec. 31, 1996                         Dec. 31, 1996


StaffInputs(staffweeks)
                                                                 ActuallLatest Estimate
                                                                      US$ (`000)
Preappraisal                                                             196.8
Appraisal                                                                 4.0
Negotiations                                                              46.6
Supervision                                                               49.9
ICR                                                                        1.3
Total                                                                    298.6


Mission Data
                          Date              No. of  Stafffield in
                                                          days       Specializations          Performance fating
                      (montlvyear)         persons                      represented
Identification1       Various dates           2           13                E, P
Preparation
Appraisal             Various dates          11         171                E, I-,P
Supervision             Dec. 196              2         21                   E                            1
Completion            March 1997              2         20                   E                            1
E=Economist; L= Lawyer; P =Pensionsspecialist                          1 = Satisfactory; 2 = Not Satisfactory

 Annex A (cont 'd)                                  30


 PUBLICFINANCE              STRUCTURAL,ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CR. 3090)

 K e y Project DATA (amounts in US$million)
                                                  Appraisal           Actual or             Actual as % of
                                                  estimate         current estimate       appraisal estimate
 Originalcommitment                                 63.0                63.40                   100.6
 Total cancellation
 Total projectcost
 Cancellation


 Project Dates
                                                                                    Actual
 Departureof Appraisal Mission                                                 November 7, 1997
 Board approval                                                                   June 4, 1998
Signing                                                                          June 11,1998
Effectiveness                                                                    July 13, 1998
Closingdate                                                                      June 30,1999


Staff Inputs(staff weeks)
                                                         ActuaULatest Estimate
                                   No. of Staff weeks                          US$ ('000)
Preappraisal                             63.2                                     146.5
AppraisalINegotiation                    30.4                                     65.3
Supervision                              25.3                                     56.4
ICR                                       3.3                                     18.5



Mission Data
                    Date        No. of   Staff days Specializations represented       Performance       Rating
                 (montwyear)   persons    in field                                        rating         trend
Identification/   Seot. 1997      4         NIA     1economist
Preparation                                         Itaxpolicy
                                                    1budgetspecialist
                                                    1debt mgmntspecialist
Appraisal         Nov. 1997       4         N/A     2 economists                            S              S
                                                    Ibudgetspecialist
                                                    1debt mgmntspecialist
Supervision     June-July 1998    8         NIA     1economist                              S              S
                                                    Itax//intergovernmental
                                                      financespecialist
                                                    Ibudgetspecialist
                                                    1debt mgmntspecialist
                                                    2 audit reformspecialists
                                                    1 pension specialist
                                                    Iresearchanalyst
                   August-       1          NIA     1economist                             S               S
               September 1998
               September 1998    1          NIA     1pensionspecialist                     S               S
               November 1998     1          NIA     1economist                             S               S
Completion        May 2000       2          NIA     1economist                             S               S
                                                    1tax specialist

                                                  31                               Annex A (cont 'd)


 SECONDPUBLICFINANCE              STRUCTURALADJUSTMENT CREDIT(CR. 3258)

 Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                               Appraisal         Actual or            Actual as % of
                                                estimate     current estimate       appraisalestimate
 Original commitment                              72.0              72.0                  100%
Total cancellation
Total project cost
Cancellation

Project Dates
                                                                              Actual
Departure of Appraisal Mission                                             March 30,1999
Boardapproval                                                              June 24, I999
Signing                                                                     July 5, 1999
Effectiveness                                                             December 3,1999
Closing date                                                             December 31,2002


Staff Inputs(staff weeks)
                                                       ActuaVLatest Estimate
                                 No. of Staff weeks                          US$('000)
Preappraisal                          25.3                                        117.8
AppraisallNegotiations                 11.1                                         47
Supervision                           96.27                                       313.9
ICR                                    8.0                                        40.0
Total                                  140                                        518.7

Annex A (cont 'd)                            32


Mission Data
                       Date       No. of  Stafffield in
                                                days     Specializationsrepresented Performance rating
                   (montwyear)   persons
 Identification1   November 1998    7         NIA      1 economist                         S
Preparation                                            3 tax policyspecialists
                                                       3 budgetspecialists
                   December 1998    1         NIA      1 budget specialist
                   January 1999    15         NIA      1 economist                         S
                                                       4 budgetmgmnt specialists
                                                       3 auditspecialists
                                                       2 debt mgmntspecialists
                                                       3 tax policyspecialists
                                                       2 pensionreform specialists
Appraisal            April 1999    11         NIA      1 economist                         S
                                                       2 tax policyspecialists
                                                       1 healthspecialist
                                                       1pensionreformspecialist
                                                       2 budgetmgmntspecialists
                                                       1 treasurysystem specialist
                                                       1 debt mgmntspecialist
                                                       Iauditspecialist
                                                       1veterans benefitsch.
Supervision         September      12         NIA      1 team leader                       S
                       1999                            1 budgetmgmntspecialist
                                                       1 treasurysystemsspecialist
                                                       1 budgetmanagement (fed)
                                                           specialist
                                                       Ibudgetmanagement(rs)
                                                           specialist
                                                       Ibudgethnacroframework
                                                           specialist
                                                       1 debt mgmntspecialist
                                                       1 debt mng.-legal framework
                                                           specialist
                                                       1 tax policyspecialist
                                                       1 intergovemmentalfinance
                                                           specialist
                                                       1 pensionfinancespecialist
                                                       1 veteran's benefitsch.
                   October2000     7         NIA       1 team leader                       S
                                                       1treasuryspecialist
                                                       Ipensionspecialist
                                                       1 publicfinancespecialist
                                                       1 healthsector specialist
                                                       1 programassistant
                    May 2001       6         NIA       1 task team leader
                                                       1 treasurysystemspecialist
                                                       1debtmanagementspecialist
                                                       Itaxpolicyspecialist
                                                       1 healthfinancespecialist
                                                       1 budget consolidation
                                                          specialist
                    July 2001     5         NIA        1 task team leader -overall         S
                                                          supervision
                                                       1 healthfinance reforms
                                                          specialist
                                                       1 pensionreformspecialist
                                                       1 treasury specialist
                                                       1 tax policyspecialist
Completion        December2001    3         NIA        1team leader                        S
                                                       1macroeconomist
                                                       1 researchanalyst

                                           33                               Annex A (cont 'd)


 SOCIAL SECTORADJUSTMENTCREDIT (CR. 3465)

 Key Project Data(amounts in US$million)
                                        Appraisal         Actual or            Actual as % of
                                         estimate     current estimate        appraisal estimate
 Originalcommitment                        20.0            20.0                     100%
 Total cancellation
 Total projectcost
 Cancellation


 ProjectDates
                                                                       Actual
Departureof Appraisal Mission                                       April 21, 2000
Boardapproval                                                      February15,2001
Signing                                                             April 27,2001
Effectiveness                                                       June 18,2001
Closingdate                                                        August 30,2001


StaffInputs(staff weeks)
                                              ActuaWLatestEstimate
                                 No:weeks
                                    of Staff                             uss(ooo)

Preappraisal                         513.85                             187.53
                                  17.00 (CSY                            36.38
AppraisallNegotiation               22.27                                57.57
                                 30.20 (CS)'                             58.07
Supervision                          5.85                                17.61
ICR                               4.60 (CS)'                             14.95
Total                               138.77                             372.11
*CS =Consultant Services

Annex A (cont 'd)                                               34


Mission Data
                                   Date          No. of      Stafffield in
                                                                   days           Specializations represented        Performance rating
                              (montwyear)       persons
Identification/              SeDtember 1999          7            N/A         Task Manaser, HealthEconomist,
Preparation                                                                   EducationSpecialist,Education
                                                                              Economist,LaborEconomist,
                                                                              Social PolicySpecialist,Consultant
                             December1999'          6             NIA         Task Manager, Labor Economist,
                                                                              Labor Lawyer, Social Policy
                                                                              Specialist,PensionSpecialist,
                                                                              MicrofinanceSpecialist
                             February/March         6             N/A         Task Manager, Labor Economist,
                                  2000++                                      Labor Lawyer, EmploymentServices
                                                                              Specialist,Social PolicySpec. (2)
AppraisaVNegotiation            April 2000          8             N/A         Task Manager, HealthEconomist,
                                                                              Labor Economist,SocialPolicy
                                                                              Specialists(2), PublicSector
                                                                              Specialist,Consultant,Employment
                                                                              ServicesSpecialist
                                June 2000           5             N/A        Task Manager, Labor Economist,
                                                                              Social PolicySpecialist,PublicSector
                                                                              Specialist,EmploymentServices
                                                                              Specialist
                              August 2000           4             N/A        Task Manager, SocialPolicy
                                                                              Specialist,PublicSectorSpecialist,
                                                                              EmploymentServicesSpecialist
                             November2000           3             N/A        Task Manager, EmploymentServices
                                                                             Specialist,Social PolicySpecialist
Supervision                    June 2001            3             N/A        Task Manager, Labor Economist,                 S
                                                                             HumanDevelopmentEconomist
Completion                   February2002           1             N/A        EvaluationSDecialist                           S
***InInDecember 1999therewas alsothe SarajevoWorkshopon socialpolicyissuesas mentionedinthe ICR.
       late 1999/early 2000 there were numerousadditionalbriefvisits by the Task Manager, Labor Economist,and Labor Lawyer

                                                     35


                  Annex B: Comments from the Borrower



                 BOSNA 1HERCEGOVINA                       BOSNIAAND HEKZEGUVlNA
                       ~IJBCEMLNISTARA                         COUNCIL OF MINISTERS
                       PILEfiSJEDAVAJ V e l                            CHAIRMAN




   Mr.Ajay Chhibber
   Acting Director-Gwerd
   OperationsEvaluation




   Re: Bosnia and Henegoviaa            -Transitloo    Assistance Credit {Cr. 2914.BOS);
        Public Finance Stmcturai Adjustment (Cr. 3090.BOS); md Social Sector
        Adjustment Credit (Cr. 3465-BOS) DraftProject Performance Assessment
                                                 -
        Report

   DearMr.Chhibber,


   1 would like to inform you that I have no objections or comments on the
   aforementioned reports.



   Sincerely,




                              --I
Sarqiero. TrR Barns i Hercrgovinc 3; Teiefon: +387 33 269570, 269 571. 269 572. 663 ji9: Fur: 211 4h.2

                                      36


         Annex C. Commentsfrom the Co-financier




                                            Sazajcvo, 01October 2004


Embssoyof Sweden
Sarajevo                                    Numberof pagesincl.cover1

FAX
Tu; R Kyle Peters
TheWoddBank
OperationsEvaluation Department
FAX :202 5223124

F~QKI:N& BrrLolc,Progzam0-
Swedish InternationalDevelopmentCooperation
AgulQ (Si&)
tel. 387 33 276 030




              Durhir-Peters,




                 cc. BoEldiug,Dincror
                     Sidn Satnjcvo

                                             37                            Annex D


                         Annex D.Listof PeopleMet


 Government and Former Government Officials

     H.E.LjerkaMaric, MinisterofFinance,BiH
    Mr.Miroljub Krunic, Assistant MinisterofFinance, BiH
    Ms.BejitaDelic, Ministry ofFinance,BiH
    Ms.Vera Letica, MinistryofFinance,BiH
    H.E. MladenIvanic, Ministero fForeign Affairs, BiH
    Ms.Ana Hadziahmetovic, FormerMinisterofForeignTrade & Econ.Rel., BiH
    Mr.MirsadKurtovic, FormerMinisterofForeignTrade& Econ. ReI., BiH
    Mr.KasimOmicevic, Central Bank
    Mr.Amir Hadziomeragic, HeadofStatisticsSection,CentralBank
    Ms.LjiljanaMarjanovic, BankingSupervisionCoordinator, Central Bank
    Ms.SnezanaJanjic, Economist, Res. &Dev. Section, CentralBank
    Mr.SamirMusovic, DeputyAuditor General, AuditOffice ofBiHInstitutions
    Mr.MiloradDodik, FormerPrimeMinister, RS
    Mr.OmerBrankovic, DeputyPrimeMinister,RS
    Mr.Branislav Zugic, Secretary, Min.for Econ.RelationsandCoord., RS
    Mr.Zarko Mionic, Assistant MinisterofFinance,RS
    Ms.GordanaPrastalo,MinistryofFinance,RS
    H.E.MarinKvartemik, Minister ofHealth andSocialWelfare, RS
    Dr.GordanJelic, Director, HealthPMU,RS
    Mr.Rajko Klickovic, MinistryofLabor andVeteransAffairs, RS
    Mr.Radomir Graonic, MinistryofLabor andVeterans Affairs, RS
    Mr.SreckoBognnovic, ExecutiveDir.,RSDev.& Empl.Foundation
    Mr.RankoLabovic, FormerDir.,RSRecon.AssistanceProj., PMU
    H.E.Ahmet Hadzipasic, Prime Minister, Federation
    Ms.SefikaHafizovic, Advisor to PrimeMinisterofFederation
    Mr.EnverTrepic, DeputyMinisterofFinance,Federation
    Mr.Per0Bosnic. FormerAsst.Min.ofFinance,Federation
   Ms.ZadaGabela, Aid Coordination Unit,MinistryofFinance, Federation

PrivateSector

   Mr.DamirMiljevic, Employers' Association, RS

InternationalOrganizationsDonorAgencies

   Mr.SerbanGhinescu, HeadofOffice, EBRD, Sarajevo
   Mr.WulfGoretzsky,ProgramManager, GTZ, Sarajevo
   Mr.SeidTurkovic, UNDP, Sarajevo
   Mr.JohnGing, OSCE, Sarajevo
   Ms.Anne Schwartz, U.S. Treasury, Sarajevo

Annex D (cont 'd)                            38



 World Bank

    Christine Wallich, Former Country Director
    Christiaan Poortman, Former Country Director
    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, Country Director
    Rory 0'Sullivan, Former Resident Representative
    Joseph Ingram, Former Country Manager
    DirkReinermann, Country Manager
    Neil Simon Gray, LeadCountry Officer
    Michel Noel, Lead Financial Specialist
    Jean-Luc Bemasconi, Senior Economist
    Sebnem Akkaya, Senior Country Economist
    Saumya Mitra, Lead Economist
    PhilipO'Keefe, SocialProtectionTask Manager
    Goran Tinjic, Project Officer
    Irina Smirnov, Research Analyst
   Vesna Francic, Disbursement Officer
   Siew Chai Ting, LeadFinancial Management Specialist
   Roger Robinson, Country Manager (Armenia), previously with OHR, Sarajevo
   Roy Gilbert, Lead Evaluation Officer
   Van Vu Nichols, Accounting Department
   DavidWebber, Loan Department
   Dilek Barlas, LegalDepartment
   Hans Jurgen Gruss, Legal Department

IMF

   Mr.FranekRozwadowski

Inaddition,the PPARmissionbenefitedfrombriefingand de-briefing memberso fthe
concurrent OED missionconducting a Country Assistance Evaluation-Stephen O'Brien, James
Harrisonand Chandra Pant-conceming meetings with other people inBosnia. See List o f People
Met attached to the CAE Report.

