Page  1
April 7, 1997
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Re:
Japanese Grant for Preparation of a Structural Adjustment Program  
Grant Number TF 029669
Dear Sirs/Mesdames:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding seven hundred thousand Dollars ($700,000) (the Grant) 
to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that IDA carry out 
the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and 
represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
 Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, 
by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. 
This Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date hereof, upon receipt by IDA 
of: (i) the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you; and (ii) a legal 
opinion, satisfactory to IDA, that this Letter Agreement has been duly authorized by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Recipient and is legally binding upon the 
Recipient in accordance with its terms.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
By /s/ R. O’Sullivan 
Director
Bosnia and Herzegovina Resident Mission
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Hasan Muratovic
   /s/ Garvro Bogis
Authorized Representative(s):
Date(s):
June 10, 1997
June 4, 1997
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions, of the Grant
1.
The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are as follows:
In support of the Recipient’s program of reform to promote macroeconomic 
stability through the reorganization of its public administration and financing and 
the privatization of banking and other enterprises, consultants and experts will be 
utilized for the following:
I.
Public Finance
Page  2
A.
Tax and Budget Systems:
(1)
Revision and harmonization of taxing policies in the Federation and between the 
two Entities and harmonization of customs codes across the Federation and between the 
Entities;
(2)
Examination of choices of appropriate mechanisms (revenues sharing, grants) 
across various levels of government and across regions; and
(3)
Development of budgetary systems including mechanisms for the control of 
expenditures and preparation of organic legislation compatible with a market economy 
for the adoptions of such systems.
B.
Pension System:
(1)
Preparation of legislation and regulations; forecasting trends in employment, 
pensioners, wages and other economic and demographic data and preliminary budgetary 
and actuarial analyses;
(2)
Carrying out of studies in the areas of (a) organizational structure; (b) 
building and equipment inventory and plan, (c) analysis of financial operations; and 
(d) analysis of information technology requirements;
(3)
Strengthening the Recipient’s and the Federation’s central pension system 
offices of the two Entities and developing training materials, including workshops and 
other activities to support project design and project preparation.
C.
Health Financing:
(1)
Preparation of legislation and regulations; establishing one or more health 
insurance funds as fully operational organizations and definition of revenue sources 
(including coinsurance), revenue collection and/or distribution mechanisms, and 
packages of health services covered by insurance;
(2)
Developing policies on the procurement of goods (including pharmaceuticals) and 
services, mechanisms for paying providers, containing overall health expenditures and 
managing the diffusion of new technologies; and
(3)
Developing information systems for financial, administrative, and clinical 
management as well as mechanisms for policy development, policy evaluation and 
management capabilities. 
II.
Banking and Enterprise
A.
Banking Sector:
(1)
Developing privatization strategies for banks in the two Entities, including 
attracting new capital through the sale of whole banks and/or sale of branches, 
bank/branch mergers, and liquidations; provision of training to improve the quality of 
management and accounting systems; establishing and improving credit evaluation and 
risk assessment systems; and
(2)
Assessing the portfolio of troubled banks with a view to separating performing 
from non-performing assets; developing a blueprint for bank monitoring that best fits 
the current conditions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a view to achieving 
international standards; and improving public confidence in the banking sector through 
mechanisms such as deposit insurance schemes. 
B.
Enterprise Sector:
(1)
Restructuring of privatization agencies at the Entity and cantonal levels; 
assistance for creating a mechanism to review and update the regulatory framework to 
improve enterprise governance and management; and
(2)
Improving the legislative and regulatory framework in the field of property 
rights, defining and clarifying ownership, and permitting the use of clearly defined 
property ownership for secured transactions and clarifying bankruptcy and liquidation 
procedures to facilitate debt resolution and corporate reorganization.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services and training required 
for the Activities.
Page  3
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient 
shall cooperate with IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the 
Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  
Training activities will be carried out in close consultation and collaboration with 
the beneficiary institutions.  The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or 
liabilities incurred by IDA as a result of claims against IDA in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 1997.  
After that date, IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA 
and shall be done according to IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time 
suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient or any 
other entity to which IDA, acting for itself or as trustee or administrator of any 
fund, has made a grant or credit, to make withdrawals under any credit, grant or 
development credit agreement with IDA acting in any capacity shall have been 
suspended.
8.
IDA is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
