Page  1
April 7, 1997
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Re:
Japanese Grant for Preparation of Government  Services Project
Grant Number TF 029670                                                              
Dear Sirs/Mesdames:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding seven hundred thousand Dollars ($700,000) (the Grant) 
to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that IDA carry out 
the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and 
represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. This 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date hereof, upon receipt by IDA of: 
(i) the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you; and (ii) a legal opinion, 
satisfactory to IDA, that this Letter Agreement has been duly authorized by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Recipient and is legally binding upon the 
Recipient in accordance with its terms.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. O’Sullivan
Director
Bosnia and Herzegovina Resident Mission
Attachment
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
Date(s):
By /s/ Hasan Muratovic
June 10, 1997
 
By /s/ Gavro Bogic
June 4, 1997
Authorized Representative(s)
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are as follows:
The development of the key governmental institutions concerned with customs 
administration, tax administration and local governments, at the Entity and local 
levels, in order to restore  post-war productive and social activities.  Specifically, 
experts and consultants will be employed as follows:
(a)
Customs
(i)
the development of (A) policies and regulations for transit 
activities and duties, (B) trade classifications, a customs code 
and procedures for recording trade flows and customs collections, 
Page  2
(C) accounting and reporting methods for trade flows and revenue 
and (D) systems of control and inspection over the functioning of 
check points;
(ii)
the preparation of training programs and materials for customs 
officers and inspectors; and
(iii)
the preparation of handbooks and other printed materials on rules, 
regulations and payment requirements for check points and 
procedures for enhancing transparency, accountability and 
anti-corruption measures.
(b)
Tax Administrations
(i)
revision of tax forms and procedures, both internal and for 
dealing with taxpayers, establishment of administrative 
regulations and designing a system for information management and 
automation; and
(ii)
preparation of training programs and materials for tax officials.
(c)
Local Governments
(i)
preparation of budget legislation identifying responsibilities for 
expenditures, revenue ownership and administration and 
intergovernmental transfers for each level of government; 
institutional development to ensure stable, effective and 
transparent delivery of public services assigned to 
municipalities, such as safety, public order and social security 
benefits;
(ii)
preparation and implementation of training programs, including the 
preparation of  materials, for local officials in budget 
preparation and implementation, finance management and public 
relations.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities, including training of customs and tax administration officials as well as 
budget officers.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient 
shall cooperate with IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the 
Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  
Training activities will be carried out in close consultation and collaboration with 
beneficiary institutions.  The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or 
liabilities incurred by IDA as a result of claims against IDA in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 1997.  
After that date, IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA 
and shall be done according to IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time 
suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient or any 
other entity to which IDA, acting for itself or as trustee or administrator of any 
fund, has made a grant or credit, to make withdrawals under any credit, grant or 
development credit agreement with IDA acting in any capacity, shall have been 
suspended.
Page  3
8.
IDA is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
