Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2800 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Labor Market Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 31, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2800 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 31, 1996, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000) (the Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
(D)
the Project Entities (as defined in Section 1.02(h) of this Agreement) 
will carry out Part B of the Project, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Project Entities part of the 
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement and
part of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank and the Project Entities;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member of 
the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Category" means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
(b)
"Deyang" means Deyang Municipality in the Borrower's Province of Sichuan.
 
(c)
"Guangzhou" means Guangzhou Municipality in the Borrower's Province of 
Guangdong.
(d)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan 
Agreement.
(e)
"MOL" means the Borrower's Ministry of Labor and any successor thereto.
 
(f)
"National Vocational Skill Testing Guidance Center" means the center 
within MOL responsible for organizing, coordinating, setting nationwide standards and 
providing guidance in relation to, vocational skill testing activities throughout the 
Borrower's territory.
(g)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and the Project Entities of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement.
(h)
"Project Entities" means, collectively, the Project Municipalities and 
Zhejiang; and "Project Entity" means, individually, any of the Project Entities.
(i)
"Project Municipalities" means, collectively, Deyang, Guangzhou, 
Shaoxing, Weifang and Wuhan; and "Project Municipality" means, individually, any of 
the Project Municipalities.
(j)
"Respective Part of the Project" means, in respect of: (i) the Borrower, 
Page  3
Part A of the Project; (ii) each of the Project Municipalities, the activities under 
Part B of the Project to be carried out by said Project Municipality; and (iii) 
Zhejiang, the activities under Parts B(2) and Part B(4) of the Project to be carried 
out by Zhejiang.
(k)
"Respective Proceeds of the Credit" and "Respective Proceeds of the Loan" 
means, respectively, the amounts of the Credit and the amounts of the Loan allocated 
from time to time in respect of: (i) the Borrower to Category (1); (ii) Deyang to 
Category (2); (iii) Guangzhou, to Category (3); (iv) Shaoxing, to Category (4); (v) 
Weifang, to Category (5); (vi) Wuhan, to Category (6); and (vii) Zhejiang, to Category 
(7).
(l)
"Shaoxing" means Shaoxing Municipality in Zhejiang. 
 
(m)
"Social Insurance Reform Program" means, in respect of each of the 
Project Municipalities, the program to be carried out by said Project Municipality 
under Part B(1) of the Project.
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(o)
"Vocational Training Coordination Committee" means, in respect of each 
Project Municipality, the committee referred to in Part B(3) of the Project, to be 
maintained in accordance 
with the provisions of Part C of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
(p)
"Vocational Training Fund" means the vocational training grant facility 
to be established by each Project Municipality under Part B(3) of the Project pursuant 
to Part C of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
(q)
"Vocational Training Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by 
a Project Municipality out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or of the Loan made 
available to said Project Municipality by the Borrower through the province in which 
said Project Municipality is located, to a Vocational Training Provider for a 
Vocational Training Sub-project.
(r)
"Vocational Training Provider" means any vocational training organization 
to which a Project Municipality proposes to make or has made a Vocational Training 
Grant.
(s)
"Vocational Training Sub-project" means a specific development project 
under Part B(3)(c) of the Project to be carried out by a Vocational Training Provider 
utilizing the proceeds of a Vocational Training Grant.
(t)
"Weifang" means Weifang Municipality in the Borrower's Province of 
Shandong.
(u)
"Wuhan" means Wuhan Municipality in the Borrower's Province of Hubei.
 
(v)
"Zhejiang" means the Borrower's Province of Zhejiang.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Page  4
dollars a special deposit account in a financial institution and on terms and 
conditions, both satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time 
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 1 and July 1 commencing January 1, 2006 and ending July 1, 2030.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 1,
2015 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  5
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Part A of the Project, through MOL, with due 
diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, economic, financial 
and labor 
market practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for said Part of the Project; 
and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan 
Agreement, shall (A) cause each Project 
Entity to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all of 
its 
respective obligations therein set forth, (B) take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable each said Project Entity 
to perform such 
obligations, and (C) not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to each Project Municipality, through 
the province in which it is located, and to Zhejiang, its Respective Proceeds of the 
Credit and its Respective Proceeds of the Loan, on the following principal terms:
(i)
the principal amount of said Project Entity's Respective Proceeds 
of the Credit:  
(A) shall be the equivalent in terms of 
Special Drawing Rights (determined on the 
date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn, on account of the cost of goods and services 
required for its Respective Part of the Project to be financed out 
of the proceeds 
of the Credit; and (B) shall be recovered by the 
Borrower in dollars in an amount 
equal to the equivalent 
(determined as of the date or respective dates of 
repayment) of the amount referred to in subparagraph (A) above;
(ii)
the principal amount of said Project Entity's Respective Proceeds 
of the Loan:  (A) 
shall be the equivalent in terms of dollars 
(determined on the date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn, on account of the cost of goods and services required for 
its Respective Part of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan; 
and (B) shall be recovered by the Borrower in dollars;
 
(iii)
the Borrower shall recover from said Project Entity the principal 
amounts referred 
to in paragraphs (b)(i) and (b)(ii) of this Section 
over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace 
period of five (5) years; and
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge interest on the principal amounts 
referred to in 
paragraphs (b)(i) and (b)(ii) of this 
Section and withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time at a 
rate equal to or less than four percent (4%) per annum.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
Page  6
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a)  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and Section 9.08 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan 
Agreement, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future 
operation of the Borrower's Respective Part of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower 
on said plan.
 
(b)
The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that each Project Entity 
shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08 of the General Conditions and Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of 
the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of said Project Entity's 
Respective Part of the Project, pursuant to Section 2.03(a) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
Page  7
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Project Entity shall have failed to perform any of its respective 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that a Project Entity will be able to perform its respective 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by each of the Project Entities and is legally 
binding upon said Project Entity in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  8
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
                         Amount       Amount
                         of the       of the
                         Credit        Loan             % of
                        Allocated    Allocated        Expendi-
                       (Expressed   (Expressed        tures
                         in SDR      in Dollar        to be
         Category      Equivalent)  Equivalent)       Financed)
(1)  For Part A
     of the
Page  9
     Project:
     (a) Goods          200,000     510,000           100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost), and 75%
                                                      of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      for other items
                                                      procured locally
     (b) Consul-        460,000      --               100%
         tants'
         services
         and training
(2)  For Deyang's
     Respective
     Part of the
     Project:
     (a) Goods        1,440,000      1,340,000        100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost), and 75%
                                                      of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      for other items
                                                      procured locally
     (b) Consul-        340,000        --             100%
         tants'
         services
         and training
(3)  For Guangzhou's
     Respective
     Part of the
     Project:
     (a) Goods        1,840,000      1,660,000        100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost), and 75%
                                                      of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      for other items
                                                      procured locally
     (b) Consul-        400,000        --             100%
         tants'
         services
         and training
(4)  For Shaoxing's
     Respective
     Part of the
     Project:
     (a) Goods        1,700,000      1,630,000        100% of foreign
Page  10
                                                      expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost), and 75%
                                                      of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      for other items
                                                      procured locally
     (b) Consul-        480,000        --             100%
         tants'
         services
         and training
(5)  For Weifang's
     Respective
     Part of the
     Project:
     (a) Goods        1,480,000      1,500,000        100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost), and 75%
                                                      of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      for other items
                                                      procured locally
     (b) Consul-        540,000        --             100%
         tants'
         services
         and training
(6)  For Wuhan's
     Respective
     Part of the
     Project:
     (a) Goods        2,750,000      2,660,000        100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost), and 75%
                                                      of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      for other items
                                                      procured locally
     (b) Consul-        820,000        --             100%
         tants'
         services
         and training
(7)  For Zhejiang's
     Respective
     Part of the
     Project:
     (a) Goods         750,000         700,000        100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures,
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
Page  11
                                                      cost), and 75%
                                                      of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      for other items
                                                      procured locally
     (b) Consul-      200,000          --             100%
         tants'
         services
         and
         training
                    __________      __________
       TOTAL        13,400,000      10,000,000
                    ==========      ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 1,400,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after July 15, 1995; and
(b)
in respect of a Vocational Training Grant unless the Vocational Training 
Grant has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the conditions set forth 
or referred to in the Annex to Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each, (b) consultants' services under contracts 
awarded to firms, costing less than $100,000
equivalent each, (c) consultants' services under contracts awarded to individuals, 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, and (d) training, regardless of the cost 
thereof, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (1) assist the Borrower in reforming its 
labor policies and legislation to facilitate the development of efficient labor 
markets and promote labor mobility; (2) improve the delivery in the areas under the 
jurisdiction of the Project Entities of effective redeployment assistance and training 
for workers so as to increase labor productivity and mobility; and (3) strengthen the 
institutional capabilities of agencies of the Borrower and of the Project Entities 
responsible for managing labor market development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
National Legislative and Policy Reforms and Institutional Development
 
(1)
Preparation of national legislation to facilitate the development of an 
efficient labor market, including laws and regulations in the areas of employment 
promotion, unemployment insurance, employment services, vocational training and rural 
Page  12
labor mobility.
(2)
Development and introduction within MOL of a labor market information system and 
network control center for the collection and exchange of regional employment data 
provided through the system developed by each Project Entity under Part B(2) of the 
Project.
(3)
Strengthening of the organization, operation and management of the National 
Vocational Skill Testing Guidance Center through staff development and provision of 
technical assistance, including the provision of training equipment and materials 
required therefor; and development and adoption of occupational standards for selected 
skills so as to facilitate the testing of vocational skills.
(4)
Development and implementation of a training program to improve the skills of 
MOL staff in respect of labor market policy development and analysis and in respect of 
computer use.
(5)
Undertaking of a review to strengthen the organizational structure for the 
delivery of employment
services at local levels. 
Part B:
Municipal and Provincial Labor Market Reforms and Institutional 
Development
(1)
Carrying out by each Project Municipality of a social insurance reform program 
designed to (a) distribute social insurance costs among all enterprises operating 
within such municipality by enlarging the social security premium pool, (b) expand the 
coverage of social insurance within such municipality, and (c) improve the efficiency 
with which the social security system within such municipality is managed and 
administered. 
(2)
Development and introduction by each Project Entity of a labor market 
information system network, including a computer application system with an integrated 
computer hardware and software and communication system, designed to enable said 
Project Entity to compile and analyze labor market information, to exchange such 
information among employers and workers at local levels, to provide such information 
to MOL and to manage unemployment benefits.
(3)
Strengthening of the provision of vocational training services in each Project 
Municipality by establishing and operating: (a) a vocational skill testing station to 
provide assistance in testing and certification of vocational skills levels of workers 
within said municipality, on the basis of the standards developed under Part A(3) of 
the Project; (b) a committee to be responsible for planning and coordinating all 
vocational training programs within said municipality's jurisdiction; and (c) a 
vocational training grant facility, to be managed by said committee, for the 
financing, through the provision of grants, including Vocational Training Grants, to 
entities providing vocational training services, of specific in-service training 
projects designed to further the objectives of the Project.
(4)
Development and implementation of a training program to improve the skills of 
officials of each Project Entity in respect of labor market services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
Page  13
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for computers and vocational training 
equipment shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or 
more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent and $50,000 or more per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,300,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
Page  14
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant  Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply 
to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management
 
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain within MOL, throughout the period of Project implementation, an office, with 
terms of reference, staffing and resources acceptable to the Association, to be 
responsible for the overall coordination of Project
implementation, the supervision of the procurement of goods and services thereunder, 
the overall assessment of the quality and impact of the Project, the preparation and 
furnishing to the Association of reports and other information thereon and the 
provision of guidance to the Project Entities in the
implementation of their Respective Parts of the Project.
B.
Part A of the Project
 
1.
The Borrower shall carry out:
 
(a)
Part A(1) of the Project in accordance with a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association;
(b)
the training under Part A(4) of the Project in accordance with a training 
program acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
the review under Part A(5) of the Project in accordance with a time-bound 
action plan acceptable to the Association.
C.
Project Monitoring and Reporting
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions 
and Section 9.07 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan 
Agreement:
1.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
employ consultants, not later than April 30, 1996, and in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to assist the Borrower 
in developing indicators for the proper monitoring and evaluation of the carrying out 
of the Project;
(b)
ensure that said indicators shall be prepared and furnished to the 
Association not later than June 30, 1996;
(c)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said indicators; and
(d)
thereafter, promptly finalize such indicators as shall have been agreed 
Page  15
between the Borrower and the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators referred to in Section 
1(d) of this Part C, the
carrying out of the Project;
(b)
prepare, through the office referred to in Part A of this Schedule, under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association:  (i) 
semi-annual reports not later than February 15 and August 15 of each year, integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) hereof, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the preceding calendar semester, consolidating the reports furnished to the 
Borrower by each Project Entity pursuant to Part D of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement, for such semester and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
continued efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and (ii) a mid-term report, on or about December 1, 1997, integrating the 
results of such monitoring and evaluation activities to date and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the following period; and
(c)
after furnishing each report referred to in paragraph (b) hereof, review 
said report with the Association, and promptly take all measures required on its part 
to ensure the continued efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions
and recommendations of said report and the Association's views thereon.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)(a), (1)(b), (2)(a), 
(2)(b), (3)(a), (3)(b), (4)(a), (4)(b), (5)(a), (5)(b), (6)(a), (6)(b), (7)(a) and 
(7)(b);
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the  proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of $12,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of  the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and 
Page  16
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the  Credit Account or 
the Loan Account under the respective eligible  Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall  reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section, or 
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association or the Bank shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the 
provisions of 6.02 of the respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in  
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an  expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from  the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the  Association may request; or 
Page  17
(B) deposit into the Special Account  (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the  Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank  all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable 
thereto.
