CREDIT NUMBER 2800 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3967 CHA
Project Agreement
(Labor Market Development Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERAATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEIANG MUNICIPALITY
GUANGZHOU MUNICIPALITY
SHAOXING MUNICIPALITY
WEIFANG MUNICIPALITY
WUHAN MUNICIPALITY
and
ZBEJIANG PROVINCE
Dated        L              1996


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2800 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 3967CWA
PROJECT AGREfMENT
AGREEMENT dated   0tLA11C-4r"A    ,1996 among INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Ass ciation), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DEYANG MUNICIPALITY
(Deyang), GUANGZHOU MUNICIPALITY (Guangzhou), SHAOXING MUNICIPALITY
(Shaoxing), WEIFANG MUNICIPALITY (Weifang), WUHAN MUNICIPALITY
(Wuhan) (Deyang, Guangzhou, Shaoxing, Weifang and Wuhan hereinafter
referred to collectively as the Project Municipalities, and
individually as a Project Municipality) and ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
(Zhejiang) (the Project Municipalities and Zhejiang hereinafter
referred to collectively as the Project Entities and individually as
a Project Entity).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
13,400,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Project Entities
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million
dollars ($10,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Project Entities
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth
in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Project Entities, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth.in
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1. 01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, respectively)
have the respective meanings therein set forth, and, wherever used
in this Agreement (except in Section 5.04 hereof), reference to the
Association, the Credit and the Credit Account shall also be deemed
as a reference to the Bank, the Loan and the Loan Account,
respectively.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each Project Entity declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out its
Respective Part of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, financial
and labor market practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and the Project Entity
concerned shall otherwise agree, each Project Entity shall carry out
its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit -.hall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each Project Entity shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01
of the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance, use of goods and


﻿-3-
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of its Respective Part of
the Project.
(b)   For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement and Section 9.08 of the General Conditions referred to in
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement, and without limitation thereto,
each Project Entity shall:
(i)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later
than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future
operation of said Project Entity's Respective Part of
the Project; and
(ii) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with said Project Entity on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project Entity shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of its Respective Part of the Project, the performance
*of its respective obligations under this Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   Each  Project   Entity  shall   promptly  inform   the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of its Respective Part of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by it of its respective obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each Project Entity shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of its Respective Part of the Project of
the departments or agencies of said Project Entity responsible for
carrying out said Part of the Project.


﻿-4-
(b)  Each Project Entity shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors   acceptable   to   the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six (6) months
after the end of each such year, the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish   to   the   Association  such   other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which both the Development Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and each Project Entity thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which both the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with their terms; or
(ii)   the date twenty (20) years after the date of
this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before the date
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association
shall promptly notify each Project Entity of this event.


﻿Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions referred to in Section
1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement or under the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party' s address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                  82987 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.         64145 (MCI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-6-
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                82987 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.         64145 (MCI)
For Deyang:
Deyang Municipal Labor Bureau
No. 23 Changjiangxi Road
Deyang 618000
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                 Telex:
FINANMIN                22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For Guangzhou:
Guangzhou Municipal Labor Bureau
No. 139 Wanfu Road
Guangzhou 510030
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                 Telex:
FINANMIN               22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For Shaoxing:
Shaoxing Municipal Labor Bureau
Liyu Bridge Shengli Road
Shaoxing City 312000
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                 Telex:
FINANMIN                22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing


﻿-7-
For Weifang:
Weifang Municipal Labor Bureau
No. 101 Shengli Dajie Road
Weifang 261041
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                 Telex:
FINANMIN                22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For Wuhan:
Wuhan Municipal Labor Bureau
No. 8 Mingxin Road
Wuhan 430020
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                 Telex:
FINANMIN                22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For Zhejiang:
Employment Bureau
Zhejiang Provincial Department of Labor
No. 42 Shihu Road
Hangzhou 310006
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                 Telex:
FINANMIN                22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of: (a) a Project Municipality, may be taken or
executed by the Mayor of such Project Municipality or such other
person or persons as said Mayor shall designate in writing, and such
Project Municipality shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature


﻿-8-
of each such person; and (b) Zhejiang, may be taken or executed by
any Vice Governor of Zhejiang or such other person or persons as
said Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Zhejiang shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
Section 5. 0. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to a Project Entity and so long as the Development Credit
Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the termination of the
Loan Agreement:
(a)   the obligations of said Project Entity to consult with,
and to furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and
statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent performance
in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)   the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to
furnish information to, said Project Entity shall be satisfied to
the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and
(c)   all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or
granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development
Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to both the
Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in the name
and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATTONAL DEVEL.OPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
DEYANG MUNICIPALITY
GUANGZHOU MUNICIPALITY
SHAOXING MUNICIPALITY
WEIFANG MUNICIPALITY
WUHAN MUNICIPALITY
ZHEJIANG PROVINCE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCEUULE 1
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement.
A.    Project Management
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of its Respective
Part of the Project, each Project Entity shall continue to maintain
a project implementation unit, with terms of reference, staffing and
other resources satisfactory to the Association, to be responsible
for the coordination and supervision of said Project Entity's
Respective Part of the Project, including procurement of goods and
services under said Part of the Project, monitoring and evaluation
of the progress of said Part of the Project and liaison between said
Project Entity, the Borrower and the Association.
B.    Parts B(1) and B(4) of the Project
1.    Each Project Municipality shall carry out its respective
Social Insurance Reform Program in accordance with a time-bound
action plan acceptable to the Association.
2.    Each Project Entity shall carry out the training under Part
B(4) of the Project in accordance with a training program acceptable
to the Association.
C.    Part B(3) of the Project: Vocational Training Funds
1.    In order to ensure the proper coordination of the provision of
grants, including Vocational Training Grants, under part B(3) of the
Project, each Project Municipality shall:
(a)   at all times maintain its respective vocational training
coordination committee referred to in Part B(3) (b) of the Project,
with membership, terms of reference and resources satisfactory to
the Association;
(b)   not later than April 30, 1996:
(i)   establish, under arrangements satisfactory    to the
Association, its respective vocational training grant
facility referred to in Part B(3) (c) of the Project; and


﻿- 11 -
(ii) develop, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the
Association, and adopt an operating manual for its
respective Vocational Training Coordination Committee;
and
(c)   at all times ensure that its respective Vocational
Training Fund shall be managed by its respective Vocational Training
Coordination Committee in accordance with the operating manual
adopted pursuant to Part C.1(b) of this Schedule.
2.    Each Project Municipality shall:  (a) through its Vocational
Training Coordination Committee, make Vocational Training Grants in
accordance with the operating manual referred to in Part C.1(c) of
this Schedule, and in accordance with such additional procedures and
on such conditions as are set forth or referred to in the Annex to
this Schedule; and (b) supervise, monitor and report on the carrying
out by Vocational Training Providers of Vocational Training
Subprojects, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Each Project Municipality shall: (a) exercise its rights in
relation to each Vocational Training Subproject for which it shall
have made a Vocational Training Grant, in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower, the Association and said Project
Municipality, comply with its obligations under this Agreement and
achieve the purposes of the Project; and (b) not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for Vocational
Training Grants, or any provision thereof, without the prior
approval of the Association.
D.    Monitoring and Reporting
1.    Each Project Entity shall maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with
the indicators referred to in Part C.1(d) of Schedule 4 to the
Development Credit Agreement, the carrying out of its Respective
Part of the Project, including the programs referred to in Part B of
this Schedule.
2.    Each Project Entity shall prepare, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Borrower, semi-
annual reports, not later than January 31 and July 31 in each year,
for forwarding to the Association pursuant to Part C of Schedule 4
to the Development Credit Agreement, integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed by said Project
Entity pursuant to Part D.1 of this Schedule, on the progress


﻿- 12 -
achieved in the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project
during the preceding calendar semester and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective
Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof
during the then current calendar semester.
3.    Each Project Entity shall, after furnishing each report
referred to in Part D.2 of this Schedule prepared by it, review said
report with the Borrower and, if so requested, by the Association,
and promptly take all measures required to ensure the continued
efficient implementation of its Respective Part of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions
and recommendations of said report and the Borrower's and the
Association's views thereon.


﻿- 13 -
ANNEK
TO
SCHEDULE 1
Vocational Training Grants
The principal procedures and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Annex shall apply for the purposes of Part C.2 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
A.    Eligibility of Vocational Training Providers
Each Vocational Training Grant shall be made by a Project
Municipality only to a Vocational Training Provider which:
1.    is a legal entity duly established and operating under the
laws of the Borrower; and
2.    shall have established to the satisfaction of said Project
Municipality on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the
Association, that:
(a)   it has the organization, management, staff and other
resources required for the efficient carrying out of its operations,
including the Vocational Training Sub-project which it proposes to
carry out;
(b)   it has developed a modular, competency-based curriculum
appropriate for the implementation of the Vocational Training Sub-
project which it proposes to carry out; and
(c)   it has adopted sound financial accounting policies and
practices.
B.    Eligibility of Vocational Training Sub-projects
1.    Each Vocational Training Grant shall be made by a Project
Municipality only for a Vocational Training Sub-project which is
determined to be technically feasible and financially and
economically viable, and for which there is adequate market demand,
all as shall be determined on the basis of an appraisal carried out
in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
2.    No expenditures for    goods or   services required   for a
Vocational Training Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit unless:


﻿- 14 -
(a)   the Vocational Training Grant shall have been approved
by the Association; or
(b)   the Vocational Training Grant shall have been a
free-limit Grant. For the purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit
Grant shall be a Vocational Training Grant made by a Vocational
Training Fund for a Vocational Training Sub-project (other than the
first three (3) Vocational Training Grants made by said Vocational
Training Fund), in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of $50,000 equivalent, the
foregoing amount being subject to change from time to time as
determined by the Association.
C.    Vocational Training Grants
Each Vocational Training Grant for a Vocational Training Sub-
project shall be made on conditions whereby the Project Municipality
making such Vocational Training Grant shall obtain, by written
contract with the Vocational Training Provider carrying out such.
Vocational Training Sub-project, or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association
and said Project Municipality, including the following:
1.    Said Vocational Training Provider shall undertake to:
(a)   carry out and operate said Vocational Training Sub-
project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial, managerial and vocational training
standards;
(b)  maintain adequate records and provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for the
purpose;
(c)  procure the goods and services required for said
Vocational Training Sub-project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
3 to the Development Credit Agreement, and utilize such goods and
services exclusively in the carrying out of its Vocational Training
Sub-project;
(d)   enable the Association and said Project Municipality to
inspect such goods and the sites and works included in said
Vocational Training Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;


﻿(e)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice, including, without
limitation, such insurance to cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods required for said
Vocational Training Sub-project to the place of use or installation,
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by said Vocational Training Provider to replace or repair
such goods; and
(f)   prepare and furnish to said Project Municipality for
forwarding to the Association, if either of them so requests, all
such information as the Association or said Project Municipality
shall reasonably request relating to the administration, operations
and financial condition of said Vocational Training Provider and to
the benefits to be derived from said Vocational Training Subproject;
and
2.    Said Project Municipality shall have the right to suspend or
terminate the right of the Vocational Training Provider to the use
of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by said Vocational
Training Provider to perform its obligations under its contract
providing for said Vocational Training Grant.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


