Page  1
Report No. 
38623
 
Project Name:  
 
Zambia-Economic Management and Growth Credit II (EMGC II) 
Project ID: 
 
P074445 
Borrower:  
 
Government of Zambia 
Implementing Agency:  
Ministry of Finance and National Planning 
Environment Category             C 
Date this PID prepared             February 6, 2006 
Projected Appraisal Date:  
February 2006 
Projected Board Date               March 2007 
 
Background 
 
1. 
Zambia is experiencing a robust growth period with positive GDP growth for eight 
consecutive years and with all sectors, but in particular mining, construction and services, 
positively contributing.  This experience contrasts sharply with the early period of reform in 
1991-1998 when growth averaged just 0.1 percent.  As a consequence, the overall poverty 
headcount has declined from 73 in 1998 to 68 at the end of 2004.  Even though this decline is less 
than needed to reach the poverty related Millennium Development Goal (MDG), the decline is a 
welcome outcome after many decades of decreasing incomes and increasing poverty.  Real GDP 
growth is estimated to have equaled 5.2 percent for 2005 despite the fact that the country 
experienced a drought for the 2004/05 farming season and witnessed serious fuel shortages in the 
fall of 2005 due to an unanticipated production failure at the local refinery.  GDP growth for 2006 
is projected to have equaled 5.8 percent as rain fall has been favorable and production of copper 
has grown significantly and not been interrupted by fuel shortages.   
2. 
These positive growth and poverty developments are supported, and for a large part driven, 
by favorable external developments.  Zambia뭩 terms of trade improved by 36.6, 7.3, and an 
estimated massive 59 percent for 2004, 2005 and 2006 respectively.  This has lead to an 
enormous improvement in the current account balance, including grants, from a negative seven 
percent of GDP in 2004 to a projected positive balance of slightly over two percent in 2006.  The 
main source of this improvement is the exceptional rise in copper prices since 2003 by 
approximately 300 percent.  This experience, combined with a recovery in copper production, has 
allowed growth of export proceeds to outperform increases in imports.  Imports rose sharply 
during this period as well triggered by rising fuel costs and imports of mining related investment 
goods in particular.  Non traditional exports have also grown rapidly amounting to a projected 
US$641 million for 2006, up by over 150 percent compared to its US$ level in 2000.  As a result, 
overall export levels in 2006 are estimated to amount to US$3.9 billion, more than four times the 
level of exports in 2000.   
3. 
These improvements in the external situation have resulted in a much needed increase in 
international reserves which stand now at two months of imports.  Reserves are still at a relatively 
low level, but up from less than 1 month of imports at the beginning of this millennium.  The 
favorable external developments have impacted the kwacha, which has been appreciating in real 
effective terms by approximately 8 percent annually in 2003 and 2004, and appreciated 
excessively in the second half of 2005.  Zambia뭩 bilateral real exchange rate with respect to the 
US$, Euro, Rand and UK Pound appreciated over 34%, 44%, 42% and 42% respectively in 2005.  
Even though in 2005, no serious negative impact on Zambia뭩 competitiveness had become 
evident as the nominal appreciation occurred in November/December 2005, the profitability of 
producers of non-copper exports has been negatively affected.  The depreciation of the kwacha in 
nominal as well as real terms in the second half of 2006 has helped restore their viability.  This 
can be seen from a still healthy increase in export revenues by the non-copper sector: exports in 
Page  2
US$ increased from US$545 million in revenues for 2005 to an estimated US$641 million for 
2006.   
4. 
After years of weak fiscal policy implementation, the authorities have improved budget 
execution and reduced their domestic financing needs drastically.  Domestic borrowing was 
reduced from 5.1 percent in 2003 to 0.8 percent in 2004, which has crowded in credit resources 
available to the private sector and reduced yields on bonds and T Bills significantly.  In 2005, the 
overall fiscal deficit was 2.6 percent of GDP, up from a low 1.7 percent deficit in 2004, largely 
because the Government cleared arrears with (road) contractors.  The outcome for 2006 is 
expected to be around 2.1 percent of GDP.  Domestic borrowing is expected to remain subdued 
under the recently issued Medium Term Expenditure Framework for the period 2007-09, 
allowing domestic resources to be increasingly channeled through the banking system to much 
needed private investment.   
5. 
To support the implementation of the PRSP/Transition National Development Plan (2002-07) 
and to incorporate lessons learned from the failures and successes of previous Bank interventions 
in Zambia, the Bank prepared a 
results based Country Assistant Strategy (CAS)
,
which was 
discussed with the Bank뭩 Executive Board in March 2004.  The CAS is explicitly rooted in a 
results framework, which links Zambia뭩 overall goals of the PRSP and TNDP to specific 
strategic objectives, which are measured by long-term outcomes and monitored, where 
appropriate and possible, by quantitative intermediate progress indicators that are directly 
affected by Bank interventions.  The focus of World Bank activities is structured around three 
strategic priorities
1
:
1.  
Sustained Economic Growth Anchored in a Diversified and Export-Oriented 
Economy;   
2.  Improved Lives and Protection of the Vulnerable;   
3.  Efficiently and Effectively Managed Public Sector;  
 
6. 
The FNDP (2006-10) whose theme is broad based wealth and job creation through citizenry 
participation and technological advancement and the strategic focus of economic infrastructure 
and human resources development builds on the shared growth priorities of the PRSP (2002-06) 
and the Transitional National Development Plan (TNDP, 2002-06).  The main objective of the 
PRSP/TNDP was to promote growth and diversification in production and exports; to improve 
delivery of social services; and to incorporate the cross-cutting issues for HIV/AIDS, gender and 
the environment in the development process.   
Description and Objective 
7. 
The focus of the proposed EMGC II
 supported program is partly a continuation of the 
reforms initiated under EMGC I and the proposed credit of US$10 million is the second 
Development Policy Lending Operation (DPL) to support policy and institutional reforms as 
outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Report No. 27654-ZA).  The CAS envisages 
that over the four-year period of CAS implementation, there could be two multi tranche 
Development Policy Lending Operations or one multi tranche plus two single tranche DPLs to 
support CAS implementation.  This credit뭩 reform program and objectives aim to contribute to 
Government of the republic of Zambia뭩 (GRZ) ability:   

To maintain and deepen Zambia뭩 macroeconomic framework conducive to robust 
growth; 
1
See CAS document  (Report No. 27654-ZA) for a detailed description of each of the strategic priorities.   
Page  3

To strengthen the credibility and institutional capacity of the public sector;  

To enhance Zambia뭩 growth opportunities; and 

To improve the poverty impact of Zambia뭩 growth. 
8. 
IDA and the GRZ agree that achieving these objectives in part depend on the implementation 
of specific reforms in the areas of:  (i) public sector management;  (ii) macro economic 
management including the reduction of arrears and the establishment of a credit rating bureau;  
(iii) agriculture;  (iv) infrastructure;  and (v) business environment.     
9. 
The proposed operation is part of a joint effort by cooperating partners in Zambia to provide 
predictable and performance related budget support to GRZ.  As a result the proposed measures 
are part of joint Performance Assessment Framework agreed between the IDA, GRZ and 
cooperating partners 
Financing
 
10. 
The proposed amount for operation will be US$10 million
.
As a Development Policy 
Operation, the proposed credit will finance 100% of the foreign exchange costs of eligible 
imports. 
Benefits and Risks.
 
11. The benefits of the proposed operation are two-fold.  First, it will assist the Government 
through policy and institutional changes to better manage the economy and better direct resources 
to those programs that will have the highest economic and social return as a means to increase 
growth and reduce poverty.  Most of the process changes aim to support durable (fiscal) 
adjustment while preparing for tomorrow뭩 growth.  Second, the financial resources themselves 
will reduce the need for additional domestic borrowings that would further crowd out resources 
available for investments by the private sector and as a consequence also negatively affect interest 
rates.   
12. In light of Zambia뭩 track record in implementing reform programs, the proposed credit is of 
significant risk.  The main risks overlap directly with the risks identified in the CAS and are (i) 
political; (ii) governance related; (iii) macro economic nature; (iv) inability to realize the need for 
private sector led growth; (v) regional turmoil, (vi) failure to contain the further spread of the 
HIV/AIDS pandemic.  See the CAS report for a detailed description of the CAS risks identified.  
In addition to the risks identified in the CAS, limited Government administrative capacity and 
coordination could lead to delays in the implementation of key measures.  
 
Contact Points: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
Fax:        (202) 522-1500 
 
Task Manager 
Jos Verbeek 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Page  4
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone: (202) 473-5539 
 
N
ote: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not 
be necessarily included in the final project. 
Processed by the InfoShop. 
 
