Documet of
The World bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9496
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL EXPLOIRATICN PROJECT
(CREDIT 1488-DJI)
APRIL 12, 1991
Industry and Energy Division
Technical Department
Africa Regional Office
-'his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cm - centimeter             =   0.39 inches
1 m - meter                   =   3.28 feet
1 m3 - cubic meter            =   264 US gallons
1 1 - liter                   =   0.26 gallons
1 bbl - barrel                -   42 US gallons
1 kg - kilogram                    2.2 pounds
1 km - kilometer              =   0.62 miles
1 km2 - square kilometer      =   0.39 square miles
1 t - ton                     =   2,205 pounds
1 kW - kilowatt               -   1,000 watts
1 MW - megawatt               =   1,000 kilowatts
1 kWh - kilowatthour          =   1,000 watthours
1 GWh - gigawatthour          =   1 million kWh
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB      African Development Bank
BRGM      Bureau de Recherches Geologiques et Minieres
EdD       Electricite de Djibouti
ENEL      Ente Nazionale per L'Energia Elettrica
ENI       Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi
EPH       Etablissement Public des Hydrocarbures
ISERST    Institut Superieur D'Etudes et de Recherches
Scientifiques et Techniques
OPEC      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
ppm       Parts per million
toe       Tons of Oil Equivalent in Heating Value
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
USAID     United States Agency for International Development



THE WORLD $sAK.                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONL.
WWwngIon. O.C. 2043
U.S A
ogue.* of DT"%". G"4ea
April 22. 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Republic of Djibouti.
Geothermal Exploratlon Project (Credit 1488-DJI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Republic of Djibouti - Geothermal Exploration Project
(Credit 1488-DJI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the
report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thb doGumeI busa guns1g  daushuuon and may be umd by n'sOPn  only in SM PWtunacae
of sho d@lW duufe Is 11ase se&s -not ostwme be d _oe w'tbout Weu X *n_g augmon.



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLIk
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1488 DJI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  .. ....................... .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .       1
1. Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
2. Background.. ..                                             1
3. Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . .    2
Project Objectives...                                    2
Project Description....   2
4. Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . .    3
5. Implementation of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Project Manager...                                        4
Geothermal Gradient Drilling  . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Deep Drilling Program - Hanle Area  . . . . . . . .    4
Hanle   1  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4
Hanle   2  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  5
Results...    5
Deep Drilling Program - Assal Area  . . . . . . . .    5
Assal3...    5
Assal   4  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  5
Assal5 .5...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .    ....6....    .    C
Assal 6... 6
Results...    6
Training and Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Power Studies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Procurement...                                           7
6. Performance of the Bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
Performance During Preparation  . . . . . . . . . .    8
Performance During Implementation . . . . . . . . .    8
7. Performance of the Borrower .             . .               8
8. Performance of Consultants and Contractors.                 9
9. Lessons Learned . . ... . . . . . . . . . .    9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW ?ROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . .   10
10. Comments on Part I  .........  ...  ..  ..                .   10
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
|of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



TABLE OF CO9TMEN   (Cont.)
Page No.
PART III: PROJECT DATA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Table 1:  Related Bank Credits   . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Table 2:  Project Timetable  . . . . . . .   .       .  . . .   14
Table 3:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Credit Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Table 4:  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Table 5s  Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Table 6:  Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Table 7:  Prnject Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Table 8:  Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Table 9:  Staff Inputs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Table 10: Major Project MJssions   . . . . . . . . . . .  19
MAP: IBRD 21837R



REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORAION PROJECT
CREDIT-1488-DJI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Geothermal
Exploration Project in Djibouti, for which Credit 1488-DJI in the amount of
SDR 5.7 million was approved on May 31, 1984. The Credit was closed on June
30, 1988, eighteen months behind schedule. It was 95% disbursed, with the
last disbursement made on January 11, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of
the Africa Region's Technical Department (Preface. Evaluation Summary, Parts
, and III) and the Borrower (Part II). Cofinanciers provided no comments on
the PCR.
Preparation of this PCR was started during tne Bank's early
missions for the follow-up 2eothermal Development Project, and is based,
inter alia, on the President's Report, the Credit and Project Agreements,
supervision reports. correspondenco between the Bank and the Borrower, a
preliminary final report prepared by the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.



- 1i -
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1488-DJI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.        The presence of a geothermal resource in Djibouti has been known
for many years and various efforts have been made towards exploration and
possible development of the resource. These efforts were mainly financed by
the UNDP and also on a bilateral basis principally by the Italian and the
French governments.   Because of the high cost of imported fuel used to
produce electric power and the resulting high cost of power to the consumer,
the Government has attached a high priority to the exploration and
development of the only indigenous source of power it has, geothermal
resources. In 1982, therefore, the International Development Association was
requested by the Government of Djibouti to make available a credit which,
along with other sources of funding, could be used for the exploration for a
viable geothermal resource.
ii.       In November 1984, a Development Credit Agreement was signed for a
project whose main objective was to explore the country's only known source
of mineral energy in an effort to prove commercially exploitable geothermal
reserves.   Additional financing was provided by the Government of Italy,
UNDP, the OPEC Fund, African Development Bank and the Government of Djibouti.
The Government of France made available to the Project the services of BRGM,
its office of geological and mining research.
iii.      A major delay in the startup of the project was experienced due to
late signature of an agreement between the Italian Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and Aquater, the firm responsible for Project supervision. Because
of this delay, the implementation of the project was prolonged by about
eighteen months, necessitating two extensions to the closing date.
iv.       Early in the Project, it was agreed that the initial thrust of the
exploration should be in the Hanle/Gaggade area in the western portion of the
Republic.    After  some preliminary  field work  and  geothermal gradient
drilling, two deep holes were drilled, Hanle 1 and 2. These holes were very
disappointing from a geothermal resource point of view as temperatures were
found to be quite low. As a result, the exploration effort in the Hanle area
was abandoned. However, the Hanle 1 well, was determined to be capable of
producing 100 cubic meters cf fresh water per hour at a temperature of 480C
which could be used for irrigation purposes.
v.        After the disappointing results in tk- Hanle area, it was agreed
that the exploration efforts, including the drilling, would be concentrated
in the Assal area where, in the 1970's, the French had encountered a
geothermal resource in a well designated Assal 1.  This well produced a
brine which was supersaturated with dissolved solids such as sulfides, silica
and carbonates, known to cause scaling problems bV.h within wells and on



- iii -
steam processing equipment. Nevertheless, as a result of experience gleaned
in the Salton Sea of California, it was thought that this type of brine could
be effectively exploited in the Assal area.
vi.       It was agreed by Project participants that the first well, Assal 3,
would be located only a few meters away from Assal 1 to reduce the
possibility of missing the reservoir encountered in Assal 1. The results of
Assal 3 were very encouraging in that over 200 tons per hour of water and
steam at a formation temperature of 260°C (static reservoir temperature) were
produced, which, in terms of total enthalpy, is the largest well in Africa.
Agreement was reached on a second well, Assal 4, which was sited
approximately 1.4 km from Assal 3; this well did not encounter a zone similar
to Assal 3. A permeable zone was, however, encountered near total depth.
The drilling of Assal was terminated without fully testing this zone when the
Project Manager lost confidence after encountering a zone of loss of
circulation.
vii.      The rig was subsequently moved to the Assal 5 (Fiale) location some
5 km to the north of Assal 3.  Since few Project funds were still available
attempts were made to save money by drilling of Assal 5 quickly, without
allowing for testing or measurement taking of interesting zones.   As a
result, no measurements were made on a shallow high temperature zone at only
500 m showing temperatures over 1800C.   In spite of the fact that the
temperature profile in Assal 5 would preclude viable production from depth,
valuable consumable materials were used in this hole at the last minute,
which, in the Bank's rpinion was unwarranted.
viii.     According to the Project Agreement, one more steam producing well
besides Assal 1 and 3 was to have been identified before proceeding with a
follow-up Geothermal Development Project. As IDA Credit funds were entirely
used, the Government and ISERST obtained funds from other sources to finance
the drilling of Assal 6. Assal 6 was located about 240 m NW of Assal 3, with
the consensus of all parties concerned. After encountering numerous drilling
problems and spending much time trying to put the hole into good condition,
the well encountered a zone very similar to that in Assal 3, in that large
volumes of hot water were present. Although Assal 6 confirmed the indication
of a reservoir, the well itself most probably will not be used for production
due to a change in the casing which lines the well, giving a technically
inferior result.
ix.       During the last half of September 1988, Assal 4 and 6 were tested
using a coiled tubing technio^C.  The results of the testing confirmed the
potential for production in Assal 6 in that over 120 tons/hr of water and 40
tons/hr of steam at 2600 were produced. In Assal 4 the results of the test
yielded a flowrate of well over 100 tons/hr cf steam and water.   The
temperature was not reported; however, the coiled tubing was lost in the well
when the well started to blow out, and finally caved in. These results would
strongly suggest that Assal 4 could have been made into a producer had more
care and time been taken while drilling.
x.        The Project was successful in identifying a potential commercial
geothermal resource which can be exploited for the generation of electric
power for the city of Djibouti.   On the basis of the findings of this



- iv -
Project, a follow-up project to develop the geothermal resource has been
identified and appraised (Geothermal Development Project, Credit 2055-DJI).
In addition to studies to determine the effect of scaling and corrosion on
the weils and equipment, the Geothermal Development Project includes the
drilling of four new geothermal well in the Assal Field and the workover and
reconditioning of additional wells.    Finally, the follow-up Project will
examine the consequences of discharging into the subfluvial groundwater the
extremely saline fluid which will remain after energy production as well as
the impact geothermal exploitation activities will have on the nomadic
peoples in the area.
xi.       Experience of Project implementation has shown thats  (i) when a
project groups many different participants, the project entity must take the
central role for coordination of and communication among the various
participants and must be clearly accountable for decisions taken; (ii) the
responsibilities of agents of the project execution entity must be defined
and officially agreed upon very early in the project execution stage to avoid
overlaps of authority and/or gaps in responsibility; (iii) consultation
processes should be clearly defined and fully utilized to avoid subsequent
disputes over decisions taken, and (iv) excessive delays in the unblocking of
co-financiers' funds should be cause to re-examine the project financing
plan.
xii.      Adequate information for this completion report, was available from
supervision reports, consultants' reports and conmmunications originating in
the Bank; however, it should be noted that much is missing in the way of
documented communications from the Project Manager and other parties involved
in implementation owing to a tendency to communicate orally.



REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1488-DJI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROH BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Project Identity
Name                s Geothermal Exploration Project
Credit Number       X Credit 1488-DJI
RVP Unit            : Africa Region
Country             s Republic of Djibouti
Sector              : Energy
2.        Background
2.01      The  electrical  utility  system  in  Djibouti  is  state  owned.
Responsibility for making energy policy lies primarily with the Ministry of
Industrial Development, which oversees Electricite de Djibouti (EdD), the
state-owned power utility, and Etablissement Public des Hydrocarbures (EPH),
the public agency in charge of regulating the importation and distribution of
hydrocarbon products by three foreign oil companies.   In addition,  the
Institut Superieur d'Etudes et de Recherches Scientifiques et Techniques
(ISERST), an autonomous agency reporting directly to the Presidency but
working in close collaboration with the Ministry of Industrial Development,
is responsible for the promotion and development of geothermal and renewable
energies through its Earth Sciences Department.
2.02      Due to the lack of any developed energy resources, Djibouti relies
on petroleum imports to meet its commercial energy requirements. There is no
proven hydropower potential nor forest; solar and wind power remain untapped;
only geothermal energy is a possible alternative as a reliable indigenous
supply of energy.
2.03      Geothermal exploration was started in 1971 by BRGM, the French
Office of Geological and Mining Research, in the Lake Assal area.   Work
culminated with the drilling in 1975 of two deep wells (about 1,000m), which
encountered high temperatures (230-2600 C) but were not fully tested because
of budgetary constraints. Additional tests were run in 1981 by BRGM, under
UNDP funding, and showed one well to be non-productive while the other
produced an excessively saline fluid (130g/1) and eventually plugged itself.
2.04      Reconnaissance work was also carried out after independence in
other areas of the country by Aquater (of the ENI group) and Geotermica
Italiana under partial funding from the Italian Government.   With the
exception of the Lake Assal area, which is the only area in the country where
deep drilling has taken place, the best-known prospecto were considered to be
HanlejGaggade and at Arta.
2.05      The rationale for the Project was based on the hypothesis that if
a source of geothermal energy could be identified and developed, the power
generated from it would be dependable, competitive with power produced by



- 2 -
fuel-fired plants and would reduce the country's dipendence on imported fuel.
In bringing down the cost of electric power in Djibouti, it would not only be
available to more of the population, but could also encourage development of
manufacturing activities. The geothermal generated power would be used as
the base load of the system, with the existing diesel units used only for
peaking.
3.        Project Obiectives and Descrtion
3.01      Project Obectives,:  The Project's main objective was to explore
the country's only known source of mineral energy in order to prove
commercially exploitable geothermal reserves. In addition, the Project was
designed to strengthen 1SERST through appropriate technical assistance and
training, to enable it to take a more active role in geothermal exploration
and development operations.   Finaliy, EdD was to have been provided with
assistance to prepare it for the introduction of geothermal power production
facilities into its system.
3.02      Project Description:  The Geothermal Exploration Project (Credit
14e8-DJI) provided for:
(a) drilling in the Hanle/Gaggade area, including (i) a program of two
temperature gradient wells (about 450 m deep) in the Hanle graben,
with necessary geological and temperature logging, and (i.) up to
four production-size exploratory wells (each abo.t 2,OOOm deep);
(b) complementary surface exploration in the Gaggade sub-area,
including: (i) detailed geology, geochemistry, gravity, electrical
resistivity, and possibly magnetotelluric surveys if justified; and
(ii) studies to integrate data and determine possible alternative
drilling sites;
(c) technical assistance to ISERST, including: (i) consulting services
for further project preparation (drafting of TOR's and bidding
documents, and preparation of a training program); (ii) services of
an expatriate geothermal project manager for ISERST, to be hired
for a three-year period; (iii) engineering services for the
supervision of the deep drilling operations and the carrying out of
specialized services (logging, testing, reservoir studies, etc.);
(iv) training of ISERST staff in Djibouti and abroad; (v) purchase
of specialized geothermal equipment to be used during project
execution; (vi) office equipment and vehicles; and (vii) external
audits of ISERST's accounts; and
(d) detailed power studies to be undertaken by EdD during project
execution, in order to determine the technical and economic
feasibility of incorporating geothermal power into its overall
system.
3.03 The Project recognized the possibility of discontinuing drilling should
the results of the wells be discouraging.



- 3 -
4.        P2   tDs&  udORnzto
4.01      Project Appraisa :  The Project was appraised in early June, 1983
by the OPEC Fund jointly with the Italian Government.  The World Bank was
requested to participate in and supply .echnical assistance to the appraisal
mission. At the end of the mission, the Bank was of the opinion that the
Project as defined at that time was not properly prepared and that further
work was necessary to refine the cost estimates and to define more clearly
the scope of the Project.   The actual drilling program in the Eanle area
could not be clearly set out until the completion of technical studies which
were ongoing at that time and until the Italian Government decided whether it
would finance the purchase of a drilling rig to conduct the exploration
drilling.   The Bank also wanted to coordinate any activities the French
Government and BRGM were contemplating in the Assal area where the French had
found a highly saline reservoir during drilling in 1975. The factors which
argued in favor of the Bank's taking an active role in the Project were:
(a) A tentative financing plan for the Project left a gap of
at least US$5 million which the Government hoped to close
using IDA funds;
(b) Bank Group participation in the final structuring of the
Project and its financing plan could ensure that the
imperatives of bilateral aid were properly weighed against
the need for efficient project management and operations;
(c) The Bank Group would bring a greater emphasis to local
institutional development and the development of the
Governm.ent's   long-term   strategy   for   geothermal
exploraL'ion/development; and
(d) The Bank Group's experience in similar operations and its
project supervision capability would ensure a much 71oser
follow-up of project execution than would have been
possible with only the OPEC Fund or the Italian
Government's limited staff resources.
Upon completion of negotiations with potential donors which took into account
the Bank concerns, the financing of the Project was agreed upon as follows:
Republic of Italy                US$4.4 million
African Dev. Bank                   2.5
OPEC Fund                           1.0
UNDP                                1.0
IDA                                 6.0
Djibouti Government                 1.7
Since this Project wes considered to be an energy exploration project, only
a President's report was prepared.



- 4-
S.        Implementation of the Project
5.01      Project Manager:  At an early stage of Project implementation,
following the Bank's recommendation, ISERST hired an expatriate Project
Manager, Mr. I. Jonsson, whose duties were to manage the Project on behalf of
ISERST. His expertise was especially in the field of geothermal drilling,
the field deemed most useful to ISERST. Funding for the Project Manager was
provided by the OPEC Fund, but was administered by the UNDP. Mr. Jonason was
in place for the duration of the project and left his post in June, 1989.
5.02      Geothermal Gradient DrLlling:   It was initially thought by the
International Scientific Council (an advisory body to ISERST) that the best
geothermal prospect in Djibouti was located in the Hanle area where a small
amount of temperature gradient drilling had been done in the past.  This
drilling seemed to suggest that higher than normal geothermal gradients would
be encountered in the area.   Based upon the Bank's recommendation and in
consultation with the other financiers, a program of geothermal gradient
drilling was proposed in the Hanle and Gaggade area. An advance from the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$520,000 was applied for and granted,
the proceeds of which were to be used for financing of the gradient drilling.
GENZL, selected through International Competitive Bidding, was chosen to
drill the two geothermal gradient holes. The two wells which were drilled,
Teweo 1 to 452 m total depth and Garabayis 2 to 453 m total e"pth, suggested
a relatively low geothermal. gradient. The results of the gradient drilling
were interpreted by the firm, Geotermica Italiana, which recommended that the
deep drilling program in the Hanle/Gaggade continue as planned, starting with
wells, Hanle 1 and 2.
5.03      Deep Drilling Program - Hanle Area:  In a general meeting, it was
agreed that four wells would be drilled in the Hanle area, two of which were
to be drilled immediately and the other two once results of the first two
were known. As Italian bilateral assistance was to supply a supervisory firm
as part of its contribution to the project, the preparation of the bidding
documents for the drilling contractor and the supply of consumables were to
have been included in their responsibilities.  Due to a delay of over one
year in the signature of an agreement between the Italian Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and Aquater, the supervisory firm, the bidding documents were
prepared according to the Bank guidelines on International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) with the assistance of the Italian national power company,
ENEL, and sent out without the supervisory firm's assistance. As a result of
the evaluation of some 16 proposals, Pool Intairdrill Ltd. (U.K.), was
selected as the drilling contractor.    The contractor for the supply of
consumable materials was chosen on the basis of ICB to be Oiltools (U.K.), a
supply company affiliated with Pool Intaird:ll.
5.03.1    Hanle 1.  Drilling started on Hanle 1, located about 1 km SW of
Dogorre Koma on January 2, 1987 and was completed at a total depth of 1622 m
on March 4.  A maximum temperature of 72°C was measured at 1420 m which
extrapolates to 940C at 2000 m. This temperature is far too low to be of any
interest as a geothermal resource. Of interest, however, iur irrigation, is
a fresh water aquifer below 667 m which can produce over 100 cubic meters per
hour of 480 C water.



-5-
5.03.2    Hanle 2.  Drilling started on Hanle 2 on March 11, 1987, and was
completed at a total depth of 2037.6 m on April 25.  Hanle 2 was located
about 400 m NE of the Garabayis 2 temperature gradient hole. The temperature
at 2000 m was measured to be 123°C which is also not sufficiently high to be
used as a geothermal resource.
5.03.3    Results.   The data obtained from all of the drilling in Hanle
indicated the absence of a viable geothermal resource in the area. Drilling
which would have been considered in the Gaggade area if the Hanle results
were encouraging, was cancelled.  This unsuccessful exploration effort in
Hanle, effectively condemned the Hanle area as a source of geothermal
resources. It is, however, important to note that the fresh water source in
Hanle 1 could well be an important source of irrigation water in the area.
5.04      Deep Drilling Program - Assal Area:  It was then recognized by the
International Scientific Council that other prospective areas existed in
Djibouti. These included, the North Goubet area, the Arta area and the Assal
area. Since Assal 1, drilled by BRGM in the 19709, produced a very hot brine
from a zone at 1100 m, the area was considered a prime area for further
exploration and development. Although the geothermal brine contained a high
percentage of dissolved solids (130,000 ppm), recent experience worldwide in
utilizing this type of brine suggested that the area could be exploited
commercially as a geothermal rejource. It was decided, therefore, that the
remaining funds in the Project would be utilized in exploring and delineating
the Assal geothermal area. The Credit Agreement was thus modified to reflect
the new site for geothermal exploration. The drilling rig and the equipment
were then moved from the Hanle area to the Assal area in preparation for the
Assal drilling.
5.04.1    Assal 3:  The Assal 3 well is located approximately 40 m east of
Assal 1. The well was started on June 12, 1987 and completed at a total
depth of 1316 m. Although some 93 days were spent on the location, much of
this time was spent in testing the well. The well encountered a very strong
source of hot water (2640C at the bottom of the well) for which the drilling
crew was unprepared, causing them, at a certain point, to cut the drill pipe
and leave part of it in the well. In spite of this obstruction in the hole,
it was determined that the well is capable of producing approximately 300
tons per hour of steam and water with a total content of dissolved solids of
about 130,000 ppm. In terms of total enthalpy, this was the largest well in
Africa capable of producing up to 10 MW, ignoring the scaling problem. A
series of flow tests were run on the well, however, it is thought that the
results were affected a great deal by the obstruction caused by the drill
pipe located in the flow of the hot water.
5.04.2    Assal 4: Upon con.pletion of Assal 3 and the release of the rig to
continue drilling, the rig moved to the agreed location of Assal 4, some 1.4
km NNE of Assal 3.  The well was started on September 15, 1987 and was
completed on December 20, 1987 at a total depth of 2013 m.  Bottom hole
temperatures were in the range of over 3400C. Diring coring operations at
the bottom of the hole, a total loss of circulation was reported. Only the
top few centimeters of the lost circulation zone were penetrated however, and
the zone was not tested. A sample of formation water was taken and the well
was hastily abandoned. The World Bank and the supervision firm, Aquater,



- 6 -
strongly recommended to the Projbct Manager to drill deeper to investigate
this zone of loss of circulation, but the request was ignored. Both parties
felt that the zone at the bottom of the hole should have been drilled further
and fully tested to determine whether or not it was a viable resource. The
view held by the Bank and Aquater was essentially substantiated in September
of 1988 when a test was made at Assal 4 using coiled tubing. Despite the
fact that the tubing broke during the test, the test indicated the presence
of a source of very hot water and dry steam probably entering the hole by way
of the lost circulation zone encountered immediately before abandonment.
5.04.3    Assal 5  Althou,-' -he World Bank communicated a recommendation to
continue work on Assal 4, -.   roject Manager abandoned Assal 4 and moved the
rig to Assal 5 (hiale), tr   Sn drilling on January 7, 1988.  The well is
located in what would a:-   t. be the "Central Rift" where it was theorized
that  geothermal  flui6      ld  be  present  with  a  substantially  lower
concentration of dissolveu eid3.  Drilling was completed on March 3, 1988
at a total depth of 2105 m. Although a high temperature zone was present at
about 500 m, no attempt was made to test it despite recommendations by the
supervisory firm.   The shallow high temperature zone is underlain by a
relatively thick cold zone which would preclude commercial production from
any possible deeper hot zones. Despite the fact that the World Bank urged
abandonment of the well once this cold zone was encountered, drilling in
Assal 5 persisted. even to the setting of the
9-5/8" casing unnecessarily at 1258 m.
5.04.4    Assal 6:  By the time Assal 6 was started, the funds from the IDA
Credit were exhausted. Since a second producing well was necessary in order
to proceed with a follow-up project for geothermal development, the Djibouti
Government decided to use its own funds for Assal 6. The well was located
240 m NW of Assal 3, was started on April 8, 1988 and was drilled to a total
depth of 1761 m. The rig was released on July 9, 1988. By this time, there
was insufficient 9-5/8" casing available to complete lining of the well (1300
m of 9-5/8" casing had been cemented in Assal 5) and zones which should not
have caused problems did, resulting in a great deal of expense and lost
time--not to mention a very peculiar hole geometry which may well preclude
commercial production from Assal 6.  In a flow test by coiled tubinig in
September 1988, Assal 6 flowed approximately 120 tons per hour of water and
30-40 tons per hour of steam at about 2600C, which is similar to Assal 3, but
with a luwer volume probably due to bole geometry. During the drilling of
Assal 6, when extensive difficulties were encountered between 300 and 400 m,
the World Bank counseled ISERST to abandon the hole, cut their losses and
restart the drilling with a proper well program. This advice went unheeded
since the Bank was not financing the well.  In this instance, attempts to
save money and "short-cut" good drilling practice resulted in higher than
expected costs and an inferior product.
5.04.5    Results:  The results of the drilling in the Assal area strongly
suggested the presence of a viable geothermal resource which could be
exploited for power production, provided that the problem of scaling could be
overcome. The theory that waters of lower content of dissolved solids could
be found to the east in the Fiale area was disproved although shallower zones
in Assal 5 remained untested. In a qualitative cense, the reservoir in the
Assal area would appear to be large and capable of sustaining long-term power



-7-
production at the relatively low rates necessary to supply power to Djibouti
town. Once Assal 6 was declared a steam producer, it was decided to proceed
with the follow-up project to develop the Assal geothermal field.   The
Geothermal Development Project, Credit 2055-DJI, is designed to drill four
development wells in the Assal Field as well as to clean up and workover
wells at least two wells drilled under the Exploration Project.  Exparts'
services for Project supervision and power infrastructure such as turbines,
generators and transmission lines, are to be financed with Italian bilateral
acesistance.
5.04.6    Trainintg and Equiment: A number of ISERST personnel participated
in on-the-job training in the areas of well-site geology and well testing and
should be able to contribute more effectively during the development phase.
In addition, a few international seminars and conferences were attended,
however,  the participants were mainly the Director of ISERST and the
expatriate project manager which has much lower value in terms of building
local institutional capacity. Office and specialized geothermal equipment as
well as some vehicles, were financed by sources other than IDA. Some of the
wellsite and chemistry laboratory equipment was donated to ISERST when the
supervision firm departed from Djibouti.
5.04.7    Power Studies:  Since the second producing well was identified only
after the  funds  in the Credit were  exhausted,  no power  studies were
initiated. These studies, including projections of demand for electricity
and analysis of the economic return on geothermal development were, however,
carried out during the appraisal of the follow-up Geothermal Development
Project.
5.05      Procurement:    World  Bank  guidelines  were  followed  on  all
procurement where bilateral funds were not solely involved. The procedures
used for the main items in the Project were as follows:
(a) Project Manager - Terms of Reference were drawn up and
advertisements   were   put   in   geothermal   technical
publications as well as with professional organizations.
Candidates  were  evaluated  according  to  education,
experience, availability and cost.
(b) Geothermal gradient Drilling - International Competitive
Bidding was used to choose a contractor for drilling the
two gradient w-lls. The contractor chosen was GENZI. from
New Zealand.
(c) Project Supervision Firm - This firm was to be funded by
the Italian Government under their grant, therefore, Bank
procurement  guidelines  did not apply.   Unfortunately
because of delays within the Italian Government,
agreements were not signed in a timely manner hence the
firm, Aquater from Italy, was chosen more than a year
late.



-8-
(d)  Drilling Contractor - International Competitive Bidding
was used to choose the drilling contractor.  Since the
supervision firm was to assist in the drafting of the
bidding documents, the arrival of the contractor, Pool
Intairdrill Ltd. (U.K.), was subsequently delayed as well.
(e) Drilling Consumables - Limited International Tendering was
used to select the firm for the supply of consumable
materials for the drilling operation. The firm, Oiltools,
was chosen to supply the materiais. Oiltools is a sister
company of Pool Intairdrill which simplified the
communications a great deal.
6.        Periormance of the Bank
6.01      Performance During Preparation:   In the early phases of the
Project, the Bank was instrumental in coordinating all sources of financing,
some of which appeared to be in conflict with one another.   Total costs of
the project were accurately appraised and would have been sufficient had
other factors not intervened.   In retrospect, major implementation delays
were experienced due to internal problems of a bilateral funding agency; the
Bank hoped for a rapid resolution and limited its intervention to pleading
for action. However, other options such as modifying the financing plan were
not exercised.
6.02      Performance During Implementation:  The Bank was responsive during
the supervision phase of the project, marshalling the in-house expertise
needed to address technical and financial issues at all times. During the
period when the project focus was changing from Hanle to Assal, the Bank was
responsive in changing t',ze project objectives reflecting an awareness of the
importance of the negative results in Hanle. During the deep drilling phase,
the Bank project team followed closely the results of the drilling and
offered constructive criticism and counsel. Technical members of the project
team were present at most technical meetings held by ISERST and took an
active part in the technical aspects of the Project.   The Bank coordinated
the various sources of funding throughout the Project, resulting in a
relatively problem-free financial situation. The Bank should have taken a
more active part in planning the training of ISERST (and EdD) personnel. In
effect, training of EdD personnel to eventually take over the geothermal
power project was non-existent.
7.        Performance of the Borrower
7.01      ISERST is a research institution within the Government of Djibouti
and is responsible for the evaluation and development of the country's
indigenous natural resources.   As the full geothermal expertise was not
available within ISERST, it was secured from a number of sources who were
willing to supply the expertise upon demand.  These sources of advice and
expertise were, BRGM, The International Scientific Council, Aquater, ENEL,
the Project Manager, a UNDP expert, and the World Bank. Being bombarded with



theories, information and suggestions, very often conflicting, from a variety
of sources, it was very difficult to maintain a consistent exploration and
development strategy.
7.02      At the same time, the usefulness of the International Scientific
Cotncil must be questioned. Although the Council was composed of recognized
experts in the fie'ds of geology, volcanology and geothermal theory from
Italy, France and Iceland, logical discussions and sound decision making
often appeared to be colored by considerations other than Djibouti's best
interest.  While the Council provided a forum for interesting theoretical
discussions, it did not contribute to advancing the Project in practical
terms.  For this reason, it was the Bank Group's strong recommendation to
eliminate it from the development phase.
8.        Performance of Consultants and Contractors
8.01      Contractors who took part in the Project included the drilling
contractor as well as the suppliers of goods and services to the drilling
operation. These services included logging and cementing. Goods included
most consumable materials such as casing, drilling mud additives and ceiaent.
Each of the companies and contractors involved performed satisfactorily.
8.02      Consultants  involved with  the operation included the Project
Manager and the supervisory firm. It is felt that during the Project there
was a substantial amount of overlapping of responsibility and authority, both
real and perceived, between the supervising firm and the Project Manager.
Conflicts over responsibility hampered good decision-making and Project
execution.
9.        Lessons Learned
9.01      The main lessons which can be learned from the experience of the
Project are:
(a) when a project groups many different participants, the
project entity must take the central role for coordination
of and communication among the various participants and
must be clearly accountable for decisions taken;
(b) the responsibilities of agents of the project execution
entity must be defined and officially agreed upon very
early in the project execution stage to avoid overlaps of
authority and/or gaps in responsibility;
(c) consultation processes should be clearly defined and fully
utilized to avoid subsequent disputes over decisions
taken; and
(d)  excessive delays in the unblocking of co-financiers' funds
should be cause to re-examine the project financing plan.



- 10 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROVER'S PERSPECTIVE
10.       Comments on Part I.
10.01     The following unedited comments, translated from their original
French version, were received from ISERST, executing agency for the Borrower,
and represent the sole contribution to Part II of this report.  Footnotes
appearing in the text were added by the Bank.
10.02     The high-enthalpy geothermal reservoir was found by the French
(BRGM) in the Assal area in 1975.  It was brought to light when drilling
Assal 1.
10.03     The temperature measured at the bottom of -A sal 3 was 264°C.
Several permeable zones were encountered in Assal 4, as -isted belows
-    500 m
-    1,725 - 1,775 m
-    1,950 - 2,000 m
The most permeable formations are those at a depth of 550 m and the
temperature profile would indicate a temperature higher than 150°C.   On
completion of Assal 4, production tests were in fact carried out, with
assistance  from  NOWSCO,  but  the  results  were  not  encouraging. 1/
Injectivity tests were also conducted and gave a transmissivity of 0.5 DM.
10.04     The Bank's objections were relayed to the Project Manager in
Djibouti by telephone and to the Director of ISERST in Toulouse, but only
after the rig had already been moved. But, the main point to be made here is
that, before the rig was moved from Assal 4 to Assal 5, Mr. Jack Warren, Mr.
Isleifur Jonsson and Mr. Anis Abdallah met together in the office of the
Director of ISERST. That meeting led to the decision to move the rig from
Assal 4 to Assal 5. In our minds, the fact that this decision was approved
by Mr. Jack Warren clearly committed the World Bark. 2/
1/ Tests were carried out subsequent to the moving of the rig which resulted
in a blow-out that left coiled tubing in the well. It is thus possible
that the well has sealed itself, precluding possible clean-out for
production use. The Bank is of the opinion that appropriate tests could
have been made with the drilling equipment in place which would have
confirmed whether or not deepening of the well or other actions were
justified.
2/ The meeting referred to was held in late August 1987, nearly four months
before the termination of work on Assal 4. At that time, when the Bank
agreed to the future location of Assal 5, the completion of Assal 4 was
not an issue.   In the opinion of the Bank Group, when the issue did
arise, a discussion of options should have taken place.



- 11 -
-    The Assal well is located almost 5 km north of Assal 3.
On confirming the inflow of water at 500 m in Assal 5, temperature
asd  pressure  measurements  were  made.    At  this  level,  the
temperature was well below 1800C.
The drilling program did not call for any production tests of the wells until
the geothermal reservoir was reached. Moreover, it was inadvisable to carry
out production tests before the wells were fully completed to avoid damaging
them.  We would also point out that the equipment program had been most
thoroughly prepared for the Project.  It was for all these reasons that it
was absolutely necessary to equip the Assal 5 well with 9-5/8" casing. It is
also unfortunate that the World Bank specialists adopted such a rigid
approbch to the execution of Assal 5, since ENEL, a company with 50 years of
experience in the geothermal field, has just stated in its wrap-up report
that the reservoir reached at a depth of 500 m is, in fact, a geothermal
reservoir: 3/
= The central zone of the Rift, represented by well Assal 5,
shows the presence of a reservoir open toward the top that
extends to a depth of approximately 1100 m with a gradient of
about 0.30C/lOm which, as has been seen, is typical of the
reservoirs of the Assal area. Inside this reservoir, in local
situations controlled by the lithology, layers with different
permeabilities  may  be  found.        The   inverse   thermal
stratifications can be explained by the presence of fluid in
movement at different thermodynamic conditions. In this well,
the flow of water at the temperature of 1900C is likely fed
laterally  by  a  geothermal  aquifer  with  thermodynamic
characteristics similar to those of the productive wells.0
10.05     We would note that the productivity of Assal 4 is limited by its
low transmissivity. We do not think that more time and care, which were
taken in any case, could have improved this transmissivity. However, there
are two other approaches that could be used to try again to make Assal
productive;
-    the hydraulic fracturing method developed in the U.S. and
already used for some 10 years by European experts;
-    deepening of Assal 4 from 200 to 300 m in order to
determine Assal's production once and for all and thus put
an end to the debate.
These two approaches can complement each other, since hydraulic fracturing
does not exclude the deepening of Assal 4.  IPG (Institut de Physique du
Globe) in Paris, which has worked with the EEC on these kinds of problems for
3/  The Bank does not dispute the presence of a reservoir at 500 m, however,
the low temperature encountered indicates that the reservoir, at this
depth, is a low enthalpy reservoir, requiring sophisticated power
generation technology inappropriate  for Djibouti.   ENEL has never
exploited such a reservoir.



- 12 -
a long time, is, in fact, interested in applying hydraulic fracturing on
Assal  4.   If the World Bank  specialists  are  interested  in hydraulic
fracturing. we can let them have all the appropriate background
documentation.
10.06     The environmental impact study on the geothermal project consists
of researching the consequences of discharging an extremely saline biphase
fluid over the subfluvial groundwater used by both people and livestock.
Its impact on vegetation will also be studied. 4/
4/ The environmental study will also examine the impact which project-
related activities could have on local populations.



- is -
PART IIIs PROJECT DATA
Table No.            Title
1                Related Bank Credits
2                Project Timetable
3                Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Credit Disbursements
4                Project Implementation
5                Project Costs
6                Project Financing
7                Project Results
8                Status of Covenants
9                Staff Inputs
10                Major Project Missions



- 14 -
Table 1: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Year of
Credit Title       Purpose             Approval     Status        Comments
CR 2055-DJI    Geothermal Development    1989    Supervision    Not yet
Project                                      Effective
j&]2_2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date          Revised        Actual
Item                         Planned          Date            Date
First mention in files                                            11/1/82
Project Brief                        7/83                         8/16/83
Appraisal Mission                    6/83                            6/83
Credit negotiations                  3/84                            4/84
Board Approval                       6/84                         5/31/84
Credit Signature                                                 11/14/84
Credit Effectiveness              3/15/85                         1/22/86
Credit Closing                   12/31/86        12/31/87         6/30/88
Project Completion                4/30/87                          7/9/88
Commen:   The terminal date for Credit Effectiveness was postponed from
March 15, 1985, to June 17, 1985 and then again to September 17, 1985.
A third extension was granted to December 17, 1985 and a fourth extension was
granted to March 17, 1986. The special conditions of Credit Effectiveness
were selection of the drilling supervision firm, ar,d confirmation that
conditions of disbursement had been fulfilled for loans and grants provided
by AfDB, OPEC Fund, UNDP and the Italian Government.  Delays resulted from
late signature of the contract between the Italian Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and the supervising firm and were not the responsibility of the
Government of Djibouti.
The closing date was postponed for 18 months as a result of late startup of
project implementation.
I. .



° 15 °
Table 3:  CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
Appraisal Estimate          0.2      3.5     5.8      6.0     6.0     6.0
Actual (cumulative)          -       0.5     1.0     2.2      5.3     5.7
Actual as Z of estimate      0       14      17       36      88      95
Comments: The low percentage of actual disbursement compared to the original
estimate reflects the eighteen month delay in Credit Effectiveness for
reasons cited above.
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Appraisal
Indicators                               Estimate         Actual
Hiring of consultants for
complementary works on Gaggade                     5/84             4/85
Hiring of expatriate project manager               5/84             6/84
Hiring of contractor for gradient
drilling on Hanle                                  6/84            10/84
Hiring of deep drilling engineering firm           6/84            12/85
Call for bids on deep drilling contract            8/84             2/86
Completion of gradient drilling                   10/84            12/84
Completion of complementary exploration works   12/84               3/86
Signing of deep drilling contract                  1/85          11/9/86
Spudding of first deep well                        4/85           1/2/87
Completion of last deep well                       6/86           9/6/88



- 16 -
Table S: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimates          PCR Estimated
Item                   Local  Foreign  Total      Actual Total Costs lb
Drilling                    0.8      7.5     8.3              11.0
Surface Exploration         0.1      0.4     0.5               0.7
TA for ISERST               0.4      3.2     3.6               5.7
Power Studies               --       0.1     0.1               -- /a
Base Cost                 1.2    11.3    12.5                NA
Contingencies             0.5     3.6      4.1               NA
TOTAL COST                  1.7    14.9    16.6               17.4
/a' No power studies took place under the Project.
lb With the exception of drilling costs, a final accounting of total
Project costs was not readily available from Bank supervision reports,
which concentrated mainly on the drilling operations of the Project.
The amounts reported as actual costs of surface exploration and TA are
best estimates at the time of PCR preparation.
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)
Planned           PCR Estimated
Credit Agreement           Actuals      lb
Source                        Amount   Z Share      Amount   % Share
IDA                             6.0         36         6.0        33
Italy                           4.4         27         4.0        25
African Development Bank        2.5         15         2.2        14
UNDP                            1.0          6         1.0         5
Government (ISERST)             1.7         10         1.8        10
Government (USAID Grant)         --         -°         1.4 /a      8
OPEC Fund                       1.0          6         1.0         5
16.6       100         17.4      100
la  Contribution from the Government of Djibouti via a non-specific USAID
contribution used to drill the Assal 6 well.
/b  Actual amounts of cofinancing not confirmed in supervision reF.-ts.
The actual amounts reported are best estimates at the time of PCR
preparation.



- 17 -
Table 7:  PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits
There is no way to quantify the results of the Project since the exploratory
work carried out is only a precursor to exploiting the geothermal resource
identified.  The Geothe.mal Development Project, approved in June 1989, will
develop the resource for the generation of power. A possible side benefit
would be the identification of a fresh-water aquifer in Hanle.
B. Economic Impact
The only economic impact which can be attLibuted to the project relates to
the creation of employment at the drilling siue and through other exploration
operations.   The significant economic impact will be realized once the
geothermal resource is being used for power generation.
C. Studies
Purpose as
Defined at                         Impact of
Studies               Appraisal           Status            Study
Geophysical studies      Justify and refine                   Justified
at Hanle                 location at Hanle    completed       drill location
Power studies            Justify development    N/A           two wells not
completed



- 18 -
Table 8: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Document la
and Section            Description                             Status
PA/2.01(b)       ISERST to submit to IDA proposed          Site of first two
location and program for each well,      wells was agreed
first two deep wells to be agreed         (May 1985).
before starting program.
PA/2.01(c)       ISERST to employ Project Manager         Met
satisfactory to IDA.
PA/2.01(d)      EdD to initiate power studies as           Not applicable
soon as two wells shown to be
productive.
PA/2.01(c)      ISERST to discuss with IDA                Met
proposals for field development (6/87)
PA/4.02         ISERST to have annual accounts            Met with delay
audited by external auditors and
furnish to IDA copies of the reports
no later than four months after the
end of the fiscal year.
CA/3.02(a)      ISERST to transfer gev)ermal               Not applicable
operations to EdD foliuing
commercial discovery.
CA/3.02(b)      EdD to recover costs of geothermal         Not applicable
activities through power tariffs
following commercial dis.,.,ery.
/a   CA = Credit Agreement        PA = Projc :t Agreement
Table 9: STAFF INPUTS
FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   Total
Preparation     17.8                                                       17.8
Appraisal        18.1                                                       18.1
Negotiations      6.9                                                        6.9
Supervision      9.)   13.3    9.5   22.4   17.7    7.6                    79.5
PCR                                                           3.9   1.0     4.9
Totals          51.8   13.3    9.5   22.4   17.7    7.6    3.9   1.0   127.2



- 19 -
Table 10: MAJOR PROJECT MISSIONS
Stage of        Month/    No. of    Days in  2'paciallsts       Performance   Types of
Proj3et Cycle      Year    Persona      Flold    tepresonted        Rating /1   Problems /b
Appraisal          6/88        2          7       Consultant            1        PC, COF, EXPL
Fin. Analyst
*Post Appraisal     7/88        1          1       Fin. Analyst          1            NS
*Post Appraisal     8/83        2          a       Consultant           1             NS
Fin. Analyst
ePost Appraisal    10/88        2          5       Consultant            1            NS
Fin. Analyst
*Post Appraisal     2/84        2          7       Enginoer              1            NS
Fin. Analyst
ePost Appraisal     8/84        8          6       Enginoer              1            MS
Fin. Analyst
Consultant
Supervision        1/86        1          1       Fin. Analyst         2         COF, EFF
Supervision        6/86        4          6      Fin. Analyst          2         CON, SCH
Enginear
Consultant
oeophysicist
Supervision        2/86        2          6      Fin. Analyst          2            SCH
Engineer
Supervlsion       12/8S        1          6       Engineer             1             NS
Supervision        4/87        a          6       Economist            1           DRILL
engineer
Consultant
Supervision        7/87        2          8      Fin. Analyst          1             NS
Engineer
Supervision        9/87 /a    8           5      Consultant            1             NS
Enginear
Geophysiciat
* Mainly missions to dolineate cofinancing arrangements.
/ Codes: 1 Problem - free or minor problems
2 a Moderate problems
/b Code explanation:
COF   = cofinancing arrangemnt
CON   = selection of project supervising consultant
DRILL = change In drilling site recommended basod on drilling rosulte at Hanle.
Ned for technical amendment to Credit Agroment.
EFF   = delay In effectiveneas of Crodit (due to the delay in selection
of supervising consultant)
EXPL  = status of exploratlon work
NS    a none speciflod
PC    a project cost determination
SCH   = difficulties adhering to original project timetable due to delays
In seloction of the Project's supervising consultant



MAP SECTION



< Sana4 an-                                                                   a' w  4w oo                   REPUR
REPLIcOFYEN                              DJIBOUTI                                                                YEMEN
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION
PROJECT
r  )IIBOUTI                                                    
ETHIOPIA       IOT
SO)MALIA
+~~~~~~~~~~
.W ., _ _s s a. / {7or 1
.S~~~~~~ GRAN                                            BAR        -O      d              /l,nd 'Co Lnn > 
+                              DIKHIL J \
,_ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,11 .,   1r,
GRAAID  BA RA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~non a6 od
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a ' ' 'a0E ai .    \       C''
PLAlAf OF                                                       ,-d    R-d, O   CD
G0AA  +                                                 'Y                sb
400- 000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O- ,d
5                              200 - 400                                                SotaI Rfrer S WadolM 80
--- - --------- '                 /
) ' ' _ GA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C4ADF ffDI('CC
4   - t-                 -60hS        I               g              f~~~~L                      a n
:\w,    <'''                     CS                              t   X S   X  ''   '''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-WV



