Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                                _      I
Report No. P-3739-DI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIREC TORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT FOR SDR 5.7 MILLION
(US$6.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF DJ IBOUTI
FOR A
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
May 7, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   FD
US$1.00         =   FD177.7
DF 1,000             US$5.6
DF 1,000,000         US$5,627
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cm - centimeter            =       0.39 inches
1 meter (m)                  =       3.28 feet
1 m - cubic meter            =       264 US gallons
1 1 - liter                  =       0.26 US gallons
1 bbl - barrel               =       42 US gallons
1 kg - kilogram              =       2.2 pounds
1 km - kilometer             =       0.62 miles
1 km2 - square kilometer    =        0.39 square miles
1 t - ton                    =       2,205 pounds
1 kW - kilowatt              =       1,000 watts
1 MW - megawatt              =       1,000 kilowatts
1 kWh - kilowatthour                 1,000 watthours
1 GWh - gigawatthour                  1 million kilowatthours
ABBREVIATIONS
BAD    - Banque Africaine de Developpement (African Development Bank)
BRGM   - Bureau de Recherches Geologiques et Miniares
EDD    - Electricite de Djibouti
ENI    - Ente nazionale de Idrocarburi
EPH    - Etablissement Public des Hydrocarbures
ISERST - Institut Superieur d'Etudes et de Recherches
MMB    - Million barrels
OPEC   - Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
TOE    - Tons of Oil Equivalent in Heating Value
UNDP   - United Nations Development Program
USAID  - United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



i--
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DJIBOUTI
Geothermal Exploration Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          The Republic of Djibouti
Beneficiary:        Institut Supgrieur d'Etudes et de Recherches
Scientifiques et Techniques (ISERST)
Amount:             SDR 5.7 million (US$6.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms
On-Lending Terms:  The funds would be provided to ISERST as grant.
Cofinancing:        Italian Government with a grant of US$4.4 million;
African Development Bank with a credit of US$2.5 million
on African Development Fund terms; UNDP with a grant of
US$1.0 million; and OPEC Fund with a US$1.0 million loan
(17 years including 5 years grace period, one percent
service charge).
Project Description:
Objectives:  The project's main objective would be to explore the
country's only known source of mineral energy to prove
commercially exploitable geothermal reserves. In
addition it would strengthen ISERST, the country's
geothermal research institute, through appropriate
technical assistance, and enable it to take a more
active role in geothermal exploration and development
operations. EDD, the country's electric power company,
would be provided with assistance preparatory to
incorporating geothermal power production facilities
into its system.
Components:  (a)  Geothermal drilling in the Hanle/Gaggade area
including: (i) two temperature gradient wells (about
450 m deep) and (ii) up to four deep exploratory wells
*                              (about 2,000 m deep);
(b) complementary surface exploration works in the
Hanle/Gaggade area, including gravity and electrical
resistivity surveys and related studies;
(c) technical assistance to ISERST, including: (i)
consulting services for further project preparation;
(ii) services of an expatriate project manager for
three years; (iii) engineering services for the
supervision of the deep drilling operations and the
carrying out of related specialized services (logging,
testing, etc.); (iv) training; (v) equipment and
vehicles; (vi) external audits; and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(d) power studies to be undertaken by Electricite de
Djibouti (EDD).
Benefits:  The immediate expected benefit from the project is the
proving of commercial geothermal reserves in the
Hanle/Gaggade area. When developed these reserves would
contribute to reducing the country's current total
reliance on imported fuels to satisfy its energy needs.
Another benefit from the project would be to prepare
local entities (ISERST and EDD) to take an active role
in future geothermal exploration/development and
ultimate production.
Risks:  The main risk associated with the project is
that no sufficient reserves are found, or that their
characteristics (in terms of temperature or chemical
composition) are such as to prevent development and
production on an economical basis; however, given
Djibouti's overall prospectivity and the current data on
the Hanle/Gaggade area, it is believed that this risk is
small and is outweighed by the potential benefits
associated with a commercial discovery, since the
discounted savings associated with geothermal-based
power production (including exploration and development
drilling) are expected to exceed the cost of the
proposed exploration investment by at least two to three
times.
Estimated Project Costs:
US$ 1,000
Local      Foreign      Total
(a)  Drilling on Hanle/Gaggade                   800        7,460       8,260
(i)  Temperature gradient wells            ( 40)      (  390)    (  430)
(ii) Deep wells                            (760)      (7,070)    (7,830)
(b)  Complementary surface exploration            50          470         520
(c)  Technical assistance to ISERST              390        3,250       3,640
(i)   Project preparation                      -         (140)       (140)
(ii)  Geothermal project manager             (40)        (410)       (450)
(iii) Engineering & spec. services          (210)      (1,990)    (2,200)
(iv)  Other technical assistance            (140)        (710)       (850)
(d)  Power studies                                -            70           70
Base Cost (December 1983 prices)  1,240          11,020      12,490
Physical contingencies                      220        1,760       1,980
Price contingencies                         240        1,890       2,130
Total Contingencies                    460        3,650        4,110
TOTAL PROJECT COSTa/                1,700       14,900       16,600
a/ Net of taxes and duties



- iii -
Financing Plan:
US$ 1,000
Local      Foreign      Total
IDA                                            -         6,000       6,000
UNDP                                           -         1,000       1,000
Government/ISERST                            1,700         -         1,700
Italy                                          -         4,400       4,400
African Development Bank                       -         2,500       2,500
OPEC Fund                                      -         1,000       1,000
TOTAL                              1,700      14,700      16,600
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY      - FY84 -    -------FY85-------   ---     FY86-------   - FY87 -
2nd Sem.   lSt Sem.  2nd Sem.   1st Sem.  2nd Sem.   lst Sem.
Annual        0.2         1.5           1.8         1.3     1.0         0.2
Cumulative   0.2          1.7          3.5         4.8      5.8         6.0
Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report: N.A.
Map: IBRD No. 18019



I



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
FOR A GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Djibouti for SDR 5.7 million
(US$6 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
geothermal exploration project. The Italian Government has agreed to
cofinance this project with a grant of US$4.4 million and the UNDP with a
grant of US$1.0 million. The African Development Bank has agreed to
cofinance with a credit equivalent to about US$2.5 million on African
Development Fund terms. The OPEC Fund has agreed to cofinance with a
US$1.0 million loan (17 years including 5 years grace period, one percent
service charge).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Djibouti:  Economic Memorandum" (Report No.
3016-DJI) was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 3, 1980.
A more recent economic report, entitled "Djibouti: Economic Situation and
Prospects" (Report No. 4682-DJI), was issued in green cover in October 1983
and was discussed with the Djiboutian authorities in February 1984. The
following paragraphs reflect the findings of this latest report.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The Republic of Djibouti is a small arid country located at the
mouth of the Red Sea. Its land area of 23,000 square kilometers is
bordered on the north, west and southwest by Ethiopia and on the southeast
by Somalia. Although the results of a population census taken in January
1983 are not yet available, the 1982 population was estimated by the
Government at about 330,000. In addition, there is a refugee population
estimated at about 42,000.  Djibouti became an independent nation in 1977
and joined the World Bank in 1980.
4.        The country is characterized by a rugged topography, with
elevations ranging from 150m below sea level to 2000m above. Its climate
is very dry and hot, and in the absence of any perennial rivers, the lack
of water is a major physical constraint. An estimated one million head of
livestock are herded by the nomad population, who comprise roughly
20 percent of the total population. Because of the scarcity of water and
harsh climate, only about 250 hectares are cultivated, although about
6,000 hectares are deemed to be potentially cultivable. The country's
fishing potential is just beginning to be exploited. There are few proven



-2-
natural resources except for salt, limestone, gypsum, other raw materials
used in the production of cement, and some geothermal potential. The
manufacturing sector is limited to a number of small-scale establishments
producing for the domestic market.
5.        In spite of its unfavorable climate and limited resources,
Djibouti has nevertheless been able to benefit from its strategic location
and its historical and regional ties to build upon the service-oriented
economy inherited upon independence. Thus, while both the primary and
secondary sectors are very underdeveloped, accounting for only 6 percent
and 15 percent of GDP respectively, there is a relatively dominant and
active tertiary sector associated with the port of Djibouti, the railway to
Ethiopia, the international airport, a private banking system which handles
some offshore business, and the presence of a relatively large number of
French military and civilian personnel. The economy is a highly open one,
notable for its complete lack of trade barriers and exchange restrictions,
and there is a free trade zone at the port. To finance both current and
capital expenditures, the Government has depended heavily on foreign grants
and loans, which have made it possible to sustain large trade deficits.
6.        In a number of respects, Djibouti's structural characteristics
are similar to those of other least-developed countries, while in other
respects these are exceptional. Among the exceptional characteristics are
the extent to which the economy is service-oriented (as noted above),
urban, open and aid-dependent. At the same time, the country's low level
of development is reflected not only in the level of per capita income of
its indigenous population, but also in terms of various social indicators.
7.        Djibouti's per capita income was estimated in 1982 at about
US$880. This average has to be interpreted, however, in the context of a
relatively large foreign population and a high degree of income dispersion
whereby the 16,000 registered wage earners received average incomes of
US$3,500 whereas the average income of the 100,000 nomads was well below
US$300. The per capita income of the indigenous population as a whole was
estimated at US$480, thereby qualifying Djibouti for inclusion in the
United Nations list of least- developed countries.
8.        Approximately two-thirds of Djibouti's population live in the
capital city. As a consequence of the inflow of refugees, the total
population has been growing at a rate of about 8 percent per annum--
substantially above the national rate of population increase, estimated at
3 percent. There is no official population policy regarding either
immigration/emigration or family planning. Djibouti spends close to
6 percent of its GDP on health services, but these are concentrated on
curative rather than preventive public health measures; life expectancy is
estimated at 45 years and infant mortality at 30 per thousand births.
9.        Djibouti's heavy reliance on expatriate administrators and
technicians is a reflection of the country's underdeveloped human resource
base. The literacy rate is only 9 percent, and the primary, secondary and
high-level enrollment ratios are estimated at 40 percent, 10 percent and
0.6 percent, respectively.
10.       The economy suffered a decline in the years immediately after
independence in June 1977, reinforced by the outbreak of hostilities
between neighboring Ethiopia and Somalia. In 1979 Djibouti started to



- 3 -
recover as the result of increased investment, especially in the
construction sector and commercial sectors.  Coupled with increased capital
expenditures by the public sector, these developments contributed toward an
estimated average growth rate of real gross domestic product (GDP) of
3.4 percent per annum in 1979-81. However, since 1982 growth has been much
lower. Real per capita GDP has been on a downward trend since
independence, partly as the result of immigration from neighboring
countries. This movement, together with the steady entry into the labor
market of school leavers, has tended to intensify the problem of
unemployment in recent years.
11.       Djibouti's fiscal performance following independence was
reasonably satisfactory up to 1981. Surpluses, averaging 4.1 percent of
GDP per annum during 1979-81, were invested abroad, which resulted in the
accrual of relatively substantial investment income. However, in 1982
financial imbalances began to emerge in the operations of the public
sector, reflecting partly the slowdown of economic growth but also a
reduction in the rate of collection of direct taxes and broad exemptions
granted under the investment code. At the same time, expenditures rose
from 46 percent of GDP in 1981 to 56 percent of GDP in 1982. This
reflected largely an increase in investment expenditures, but also the
inclusion for the first time of the expenditures for the national army in
the budget, while foreign grants earmarked to cover defense expenditures
were reduced; there was also a noticeable rise in subsidies to public and
semipublic enterprises. As a result of these developments, the
Government's transactions recorded a deficit equivalent to 8.4 percent of
GDP. The deterioration in the Central Government's operations was
compounded by a pronounced drop in foreign grants from DF 11.2 billion in
1981 to DF 7.9 billion in 1982. The estimated deficit for 1983 of DF
5.0 million (7.6 percent of GDP) represents only a marginal improvement
over the performance in 1982, despite a substantial reduction in
expenditures by 12.3 percent, as foreign grants continued to decline to
about DF 4.8 billion. In order to finance the overall deficits, deposits
with domestic and foreign banks were drawn down and loans negotiated.
12.       Since independence, the Government has fostered the creation of
public and semipublic enterprises to provide social and economic services
in various fields, particularly where private sector participation was
nonexistent or deemed inadequate. The combined financial accounts of these
enterprises showed modest operating surpluses up to 1980, but they have
incurred losses since then. These losses were partly the result of a
deliberate government policy of not permitting price adjustments to reflect
fully the increases in costs of specific goods and services, e.g., wheat
flour and port services.
13.       Up to 1981 Djibouti's balance of payments was characterized by
large balance of trade deficits that were more than offset by the sum of
net receipts on services and official unrequited transfers. As a result
overall surpluses were realized, and official net foreign exchange reserves
reached a peak in early 1982 equivalent to about SDR 84.5 million,
corresponding to some six months of imports. In 1982, exports (most of
which are re-exports to foreigners stationed in Djibouti) fell by
8.5 percent, mainly as a consequence of the reduction in purchasing power
of these foreigners. Meanwhile, total imports remain essentially
unchanged, so imports not destined for re-export increased sharply from



- 4 -
about 24.5 percent to 30.5 percent of GDP. This increase reflected partly
the rise in investment-related imports of capital goods, as well as the
strong effective appreciation of the Djibouti franc. At the same time, net
receipts from services and official transfers declined sharply, and the
current account turned from a surplus amounting to 4.1 percent of GDP in
1981 to a deficit of 12.4 percent of GDP in 1982. The deficit was financed
by drawing on foreign loans and an inflow of private capital, and the
overall balance of payments remained in surplus. However, in 1983 the
continued financial imbalances in the public sector led to an overall
balance of payments deficit of SDR 17.2 million, as drawings on foreign
loans slowed and the flow of private capital was reversed.
14.       Monetary developments during the period 1979-81 mainly reflected
favorable developments in the balance of payments and in the substantial
external budgetary support, with increasing net foreign assets of both the
Treasury and the commercial banks; credit to the private sector grew at
13.0 percent. In 1982 this pattern was broken as Government deposits with
the commercial banks declined and net foreign assets fell. Money growth
accelerated to 23 percent as growth in credit to the private sector
continued at a rate of about 40 percent despite the slowdown in economic
activity. The rate of inflation, measured by changes in consumer prices
for expatriates and dominated by the development of import prices and
exchange rate movements, declined from 5.6 percent in 1981 to -2.4 percent
in 1982 but rose again in 1983 to at least 1.0 percent.
15.       The public and publicly guaranteed external debt of Djibouti is
still small and consists mostly of concessionary loans; at the end of 1982
outstanding disbursed debt amounted to SDR 36.3 million or 11.3 percent of
GDP, with a debt service equivalent to 2.4 percent of exports of goods,
services, and private transfers. However, the debt service ratio is likely
to at least double by 1987, as the grace period of recently contracted
loans begins to expire.
Planning and Aid Coordination
16.       The main concern of the authorities is to achieve a satisfactory
and sustainable rate of growth. Given the very limited natural and human
resources of the country and its unique location, recourse to an open
economy, driven by an active private service sector, is a logical choice.
However, the services sector, which is very sensitive to external shocks,
has so far not been able to generate a sustainable rate of growth or to
generate enough foreign exchange to meet growing import expenditures.
Therefore, a redirection of efforts is made towards a broadening of the
economic base (small scale industry, fishing, transport, livestock and even
agriculture), while trying to improve the performance of the service
sector.
17.       Although Djibouti has only a nominal planning institution (the
General Directorate of Planning, attached to the Presidency) an informal
system, based on ad-hoc commissions, was quite effective in organizing,
with the help of UNDP and the Bank, a Donors' Conference which took place
in November 1983. The Conference was aimed at broadening international
support to the country and at reversing the trend of declining
concessionary assistance. A five year investment program was proposed to



- 5 -
the Conference which was well organized and efficiently run. The main
objective of the program is to correct the structural weaknesses of the
economy through particular efforts in diversification, development of human
resources, and the continuing build up of essential infrastructure. The
size of the proposed program was US$570 million, of which US$20 million was
to be financed from domestic resources and US$240 million had already been
secured. Out of the remaining US$310 million, US$230 million was
apparently secured at the Conference, although some sectors have apparently
been over-financed. In addition, there were a number of pledges for
increased technical assistance, which the Government considers critical,
given its past absorptive capacity problems. The Government has just
constituted a new "Comite de Surveillance", which will be in charge of
managing the secured investment financing.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN DJIBOUTI
18.       Djibouti joined the Bank and the Association on October 2, 1980.
The Bank Group assistance strategy is aimed at helping to strengthen the
country's economic management and development institutions, meet the basic
needs of some of the poorest parts of the population, develop natural
resources such as geothermal energy and improve human resources training.
19.       The proposed Geothermal Exploration project would be the third
Bank Group operation in the country, after the US$3.0 million credit for a
Technical Assistance project, approved by the Board on April 20, 1982, and
the US$6.4 million credit for a Highway Maintenance project signed in
January 1983. The Technical Assistance project, cofinanced with a parallel
contribution of US$1.46 million from UNDP, is designed to improve the
Government's capabilities to formulate an appropriate development strategy,
to coordinate development efforts and to engage in planning, project
preparation and monitoring. The project provides two long-term advisors to
the Planning Directorate and one to the Statistics Directorate. In
addition to training, equipment and vehicles, it also finances a Project
Preparation and Sector Studies Fund to conduct background and feasibility
studies necessary to design and implement a development strategy. The
planning component of the project will now be attached to the planning unit
in Finance due to difficulties of leadership in the Planning Directorate.
The Highway Maintenance project is now effective and a Bank mission visited
Djibouti in December 1983 to assist with its start-up.
20.       Discussions between the Government and the Bank regarding the
preparation of an Urban Development project began in 1981, following which
the Government commissioned a feasibility study for a program of
investments in the urban sector financed by an IDA Project Preparation
Facility of US$500,000. The project, which has been appraised, would focus
on the introduction of viable urban investments, simplified procedures for
the transfer of title and the provision of building permits and the
strengthening of urban institutions to establish a means for the Government
to continue to improve the basic living conditions in the city of
Djibouti. Government has also asked for Bank assistance in the education
sector. An Education Sector Memorandum has been prepared. Based on its
findings and on a UNESCO preparation mission, a proposed Human Resources
project will be appraised in March 1984. The project will address mainly
the quality improvement and expansion of primary education.



- 6 -
21.       The Bank participated in the Donors Conference of November 1983
where the Government presented its investment program for the period
1984-88. A technical secretariat to the "Comite de Surveillance" of the
Donors Conference will be established with the task of monitoring the
overall evolution of the Djiboutian economy, and of preparing and
monitoring the projects for which financing has been obtained. To
strengthen this secretariat, the Bank has proposed to assign to it the
project economist and the macroeconomist of the Technical Assistance
Project. Assistance of outside consultants financed by the Studies Fund
will also be provided.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Resource Base, Supply, and Demand
22.      Due to the lack of any developed energy resources, Djibouti is
currently relying exclusively on petroleum imports to meet its commercial
energy requirements. The country's hydropower potential is nil due to the
absence of permanent rivers. The geology is not favorable to hydrocarbon
accumulation, and forests are almost nonexistent. Solar and wind energy
resources are considered significant but remain untapped; their potential
is currently being evaluated (para. 27). Djibouti's most immediate hope of
improving its energy balance lies in the use of its geothermal energy
resources which appear significant but are yet to be developed.
23.      The country's total internal energy consumption has grown by about
6 percent per annum over the last six years and reached about 70,000 TOE
in 1982 (essentially petroleum products); per capita energy consumption was
215 kg of oil equivalent, relatively high by African standards, due to
Djibouti's important expatriate community. The estimated breakdown of
final energy demand is estimated as follows: residential: 28 percent;
transport: 66 percent; and industry and commerce: 6 percent. Imports of
petroleum products totalled about 2.6 MMB (million barrels) in 1982, of
which only 19 percent were consumed internally (or US$15 million,
accounting for about 8 percent of the country's net imports), the
difference representing bunkering and aviation sales.
24.      Gross electric consumption rose by 8.8 percent on average in the
last four years and reached 106 Gwh in 1982 (i.e., about 320 kWh per
capita), of which 92 percent was concentrated in the city of Djibouti;
growth over the next ten years is forecast at about 10 percent per annum,
which reflects the repressed demand of past years when inadequate
generation facilities were unable to fully satisfy demand. Total installed
capacity is currently 36 MW (exclusively small diesel groups, some of which
are 20 years old) and is to be increased to 66 MW by the end of 1984 with
the commissioning of two new 15 MW diesel groups (para. 27); Djibouti's
long-term power development plan shows requirements for increments in
capacity of 15-20 MW every 3-4 years (taking into account the retirement of
old equipment), with the next increment due by 1988. There are about
14,000 power customers in the country, and it is estimated that less than
25 percent of the population has access to electricity.



Sector Institutions, Policies and Issues
25.      Responsibility for making energy policy lies primarily with the
Ministry of Industrial Development, which oversees Electricite de Djibouti
(EDD), the local state-owned power utility, and Etablissement Public des
Hydrocarbures (EPH), the public agency in charge of regulating the
importation and distribution of hydrocarbon products by three foreign oil
companies. In addition, the Institut Superieur d'Etudes et de Recherches
Scientifiques et Techniques (ISERST), an autonomous agency reporting
directly to the Presidency but working in close collaboration with the
Ministry of Industrial Development, is responsible for the promotion and
development of geothermal and renewable energies through its Earth Sciences
Department (para. 31). Domestic energy prices are set by the Ministry and
enforced by EDD and EPH respectively. The current institutional set-up for
the sector is considered adequate.
26.      Prices.  Overall, Government policy for energy prices is sound.
Prices for international sales of hydrocarbon products (bunkering and jet
refueling) are unregulated; domestic retail prices have been regulated
since 1980, but are higher than border prices as a result of local sales
taxes and duties as shown below:
Unit Prices (US$/gal) as of November 1, 1983
Retail          CIF Djibouti
Gasoline (premium)                   2.87                0.94
Gasoline (regular)                   2.55                0.93
Kerosene                             1.23                0.89
Diesel oil                           1.45                0.87
Fuel oil (EDD)                       1.08                0.66
Taxes and duties have, however, been lower on kerosene than on other fuels,
as the Government has used two grants from Saudi Arabia (totalling about
US$10 million over 1980-83) to reduce net taxation on kerosene and to
a lesser extent on diesel oil, primarily for social considerations. No
further external funding is expected for such a purpose beyond 1983 and the
Government intends to review the existing price structure in 1984. Average
electricity tariffs range from USc19 per kWh for residential use to USc16
for industrial customers, reflecting the high cost of operating and
maintaining EDD's largely obsolete generating equipment, and its exclusive
reliance on diesel-based generation. Following the recent completion of a
tariff study undertaken by EDD with the assistance of Electricite de France
(EDF), a new tariff structure based on the principles of marginal costing
is to be put into effect in the course of 1984.
27.      Investments.  Total proposed investment in the energy sector for
the 1983-87 period is about US$67 million (current prices), with the power
sector accounting for 67 percent of this figure, geothermal energy
(including the proposed project) for 26 percent and renewable energies for
7 percent. Proposed power investments include the expansion of the
existing power station with the installation of two 15 MW diesel groups and
related distribution and sub-transmission works, under financing from



-8-
French bilateral aid, the Islamic Development Bank, and the OPEC Fund.
Investments in the geothermal sub-sector would include the proposed
exploration project as well as an office building for ISERST for which
external financing is being sought. Finally, ISERST, assisted by US
consultants, has been carrying out since 1982 a program for the promotion
of renewable energies (primarily solar and wind) with a US$4 million grant
from USAID; as part of this program, an overall energy assessment of the
country is to be completed by mid-1984.
Geothermal Potential and Status of Exploration
28.      Djibouti is located on one branch of the Red Sea/East African rift
zone and is characterized by high heat flow, abundant thermal springs and
fumaroles and an intense history of volcanism (continuing in the Assal
area); in addition, many areas are undergoing crustal extension and
fracturing. These conditions allow for heat transfer by both the continued
upwelling of magma and the deep convective circulation of water within the
fractured rocks into areas of very high temperature. Where fracturing has
been intense, the necessary conditions of permeability necessary for
steam/fluid accumulation may be found. Given these characteristics, the
overall potential for discovering commercial geothermal resources in
Djibouti can be rated as favorable, with only Kenya and Ethiopia having
possibly more attractive prospects in Africa. There is a good probability
that at least 100 MW, and perhaps more, of commercial electric power
capacity may be sustained during the next 30-50 years by the country's
geothermal resources.
29.      Exploration was started in 1971 by Bureau de Recherches
Geologiques et Miniares (BRGM) in the Lake Assal area, at a time when
Djibouti was still a French territory; work in this area culminated with
the drilling in 1975 of two deep wells (about 1,000 m), which encountered
high temperatures (230-260 C) but could not be fully tested because of
budgetary constraints. Full tests were later run in 1981 by BRGM, under
UNDP funding, and showed one well to be non-productive while the other
produced an excessively saline fluid (130g/1) and eventually plugged itself
due to severe scaling problems.
30.      Reconnaissance work was also carried out after independence in
other areas of the country by Aquater (of the ENI group) and Geotermica
Italiana (a private consulting firm), under partial funding from the
Italian Government. With the exception of the Lake Assal area, which is
the only area in the country where deep drilling has taken place, the
best-known prospects are Hanle/Gaggade, followed by Arta;  both areas have
been covered by electrical resistivity surveys; in the Hanle/Gaggade area,
a temperature gradient well (450 m) was drilled and a gravity survey and
tectonic analysis have been performed on the Hanle graben in 1983. Other
areas, explored to a lesser degree, are Lake Abbe and North Ghoubet.
Institutional Framework for Geothermal Exploration and Development
31.       ISERST.  The Government entity responsible for all aspects of
geothermal exploration and development in the country is ISERST, an
autonomous agency created in 1979 whose funding has been obtained from



public budget allocations and bilateral sources; its budget for 1983 was
about US$1 million. ISERST's Earth Sciences Department, which is
specifically responsible for geothermal energy, also carries out the
country's geological mapping, performs hydrological analyses, and oversees
the Arta seismological laboratory. ISERST's two other departments are
respectively in charge of research in forestry, agriculture and fishery
(Life Sciences), and sociological, ethnological and archeological studies
(Human Sciences). The Earth Sciences Department's staff includes six local
geologists/geophysicists and four French experts (for geological mapping
and hydrology), none of whom has specific experience in geothermal
exploration. ISERST has, however, benefited from the services of
geothermal experts financed by France and Italy on an ad hoc basis
over the last four years. Also, meetings of a selected group of some
15 international experts in geothermy (called the International Scientific
Council) has been convened on various occasions (the last time in October
1983) to advise ISERST on matters relating to geothermal exploration.
32.       Although ISERST is soundly managed, its Manager will not be able
to devote all his time to geothermal activities and will be assisted by an
expatriate geothermal project manager, hired under the proposed project,
who will coordinate all aspects of geothermal exploration as the head of a
special Project Unit within ISERST's Earth Sciences Department. In
addition, ISERST's staff will be trained in geothermal matters both on the
job by the project engineering firm and through formal courses abroad as
part of the project (para. 41). ISERST, with the help of consultants, has
prepared a detailed training program. Training activities would include,
inter alia, scholarships at Italian universities and attendance at special
technical seminars and short-term courses organized by Italian geothermal
firms, under bilateral Italian financing, as well as attendance at selected
conferences and courses in other countries, under UNDP financing
(para. 46).
33.       The Ministry of Industry has been fostering a close association
of EDD in the making of policy for geothermal exploration/development as it
will have direct responsibility for the production of electricity from any
field developed by ISERST. Collaboration between ISERST and EDD has been
very good and is expected to continue. The Government and ISERST would
agree that, in case of discovery, ISERST's geothermal assets would be
ultimately transferred to EDD under appropriate financial terms and that
appropriate arrangements would be made at that time for the transfer of
qualified local geothermal staff from ISERST to EDD when geothermal power
production is started (Section 3.02 (a), draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Government would also agree to ensure that the cost of
geothermal exploration and development investments would be recovered
through EDD's tariffs once production is on stream (Section 3.02 (b), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Government Objectives and Strategy for Future Geothermal Exploration and
Development
34.       The Government's major objective in the energy sector is to
reduce the country's dependence on imported fuel. In light of the
favorable conditions for the discovery of commercial geothermal resources
in Djibouti, the favorable economics for their development (para. 50), and
the lack of other viable indigenous sources of energy, the Government has



- 10 -
rightfully given a high priority to its geothermal program. However, the
production of electricity represents for the time-being the only
economically viable option for the use of geothermal energy in Djibouti,
although industrial use on a minor scale may prove feasible in the longer
term, e.g., for salt extraction or processing of minerals (diatomite and
perlite). In addition, the forecast increment in domestic power demand is
not expected to exceed 30 MW over the next decade, whereas an average
geothermal field by international standards is capable of sustaining about
50 MW for 30 years, when fully developed. The Government has thus decided
to concentrate its exploration efforts in one area at a time, due to the
small size and concentration of the domestic power market which will not
accommodate the development of two simultaneous discoveries.
35.       The Government, with the help of its consultants, has carefully
evaluated and ranked the country's prospects by assessing results of past
exploration and taking into account considerations of accessibility and
proximity to the power market. This analysis, with which the Bank agreed,
showed that the Assal discovery could not, in all likelihood, be developed
on a commercial basis due to the costly investments required to correct the
technical problems previously encountered (para. 29) and that the
Hanle/Gaggade area should be considered as the priority prospect for the
initiation of deep exploratory drilling. In the future, the Government
intends to pursue a sequential approach, as follows:
(a) a program of two gradient wells on the Hanle
graben and complementary surface exploration
(detailed geology, geochemistry, gravity and
electrical resistivity surveys) on the Gaggade
sub-area would be carried out, so as to determine
the most appropriate deep drilling sites;
(b) a program of four deep exploratory wells would
be initiated on the basis of this selection while
sufficient flexibility would be preserved to permit
the necessary adjustments in site selection and
drilling program which might be required as more
data becomes available during the course of
exploration; at the same time, provisions would be
made to discontinue the work in case of
discouraging results; and
(c) in case of commercial discovery, all available
resources would be concentrated on the development
and ultimately, production of the prospect. If the
Hanle/Gaggade area does not warrant development,
the Government would refocus its exploration
efforts on one of the alternative areas (para. 30)
and would, if appropriate, devise a new exploration
program for it. Assal could also be reconsidered
at that time if new techniques are developed in
coming years which would enable the tackling of
salinity and scaling problems in a cost effective
way.



- 11 -
Steps (a) and (b) would be the object of the proposed project. This
strategy, which will enable the Government to minimize its investments in
expensive drilling operations, while avoiding lengthy disruptions in its
exploration program, has been endorsed by potential co-financiers and
deserves full IDA support.
36.       Although possible in theory, private sector involvement in
geothermal exploration (as in the Philippines) cannot be realistically
expected in the case of Djibouti due to the small size of the power market
and the country's current economic situation. This is confirmed by the
lack of industry response to a promotion effort carried out recently in the
Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) under the Bank's auspices, in spite of a more
attractive environment. IDA's role should thus be to assist the Government
in mobilizing adequate financing for geothermal exploration from bilateral
and multilateral agencies.
IDA's Role
37.       Although involved at a relatively late stage in the sector, IDA
has already made some important contributions during project preparation
and appraisal. In particular it has helped: (i) to improve project design
by revising the scope of the Government's original project proposal which
was overdimensioned and too open-ended; (ii) to update and confirm the
preliminary economic justification of geothermal-based power, and (iii)
to mobilize additional cofinancing and structure an appropriate project
financing plan by ensuring that the constraints of bilateral aid were
properly weighed against the need for efficient project management and
operations. More generally, IDA's future role in the sector should be:
(a) to support the Government's objectives to reduce
its dependence on imported fuel by exploring and
developing indigenous sources of energy, thereby
ensuring significant savings in foreign exchange;
(b) to help the Government formulate and apply a
consistent strategy for geothermal exploration
along the lines described above (para. 35);
(c) to bring the proper emphasis to local staff
development and promote an efficient and
business-like management of sector institutions;
and
(d) to ensure that the project is carried out
efficiently through frequent and close project
supervision.
38.       The Government has requested that the project include studies
which EDD would need to undertake during project execution, in order to
evaluate the economic and technical feasibility of incorporating geothermal
power generation into its overall system (para. 41). These studies will
lead to an updating of EDD's least-cost expansion plan and would thus
provide IDA with a first opportunity to review power planning methodology.



- 12 -
This, and the commissioning of the two new diesel groups (para. 27), is
expected to result in significant improvements in Djibouti's power system
efficiency. In addition, the Government has also indicated that it expects
IDA to support a possible follow-up project (geothermal field development
and, possibly, power generation/transmission). This would provide an
opportunity for IDA to help EDD improve further plant efficiency and power
system planning.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was appraised in June 1983, jointly with the
OPEC Fund and the Italian Government. Negotiations were held in Washington
in April 1984. The Djiboutian delegation was headed by H.E. Fahmi El Hag,
Minister of Industry and Industrial Development. A Credit and Project
Summary appears at the beginning of this report, and a Supplementary
Project Data Sheet is given in Annex III. No Staff Appraisal Report has
been prepared.
Project Objectives
40.       The project's main objective would be to explore the country's
only known source of mineral energy. It would seek to prove commercially
exploitable geothermal reserves. In addition it would strengthen ISERST,
the country's geothermal research institute, through appropriate technical
assistance, and enable it to take a more active role in geothermal
exploration and development operations. EDD would be provided with
assistance preparatory to incorporating geothermal power production
facilities into its system.
Project Description
41.       The project would consist of:
(a) drilling in the Hanle/Gaggade area, including:
(i) a program of two temperature gradient wells
(about 450 m deep) in the Hanle graben, with
necessary geological and temperature logging, and
(ii) up to four production-size exploratory wells
(each about 2,000 m deep);
(b) complementary surface exploration in the
Gaggade sub-area, including: (i) detailed geology,
geochemistry, gravity, electrical resistivity, and
possibly magnetotelluric surveys if this is
justified; and (ii) studies to integrate data and
determine possible alternative drilling sites;
(c) technical assistance to ISERST, including:
(i) consulting services for further project
preparation (drafting of TOR's and bidding
documents, and preparation of a training program);



- 13 -
(ii) services of an expatriate geothermal project
manager for ISERST, to be hired for a three-year
period; (iii) engineering services for the
supervision of the deep drilling operations and the
carrying out of specialized services (logging,
testing, reservoir studies, etc.); (iv) training
of ISERST staff in Djibouti and abroad; (v)
purchase of specialized geothermal equipment to be
used during project execution; (vi) office
equipment and vehicles; and (vii) external
audits of ISERST's accounts (para. 49); and
(d)  detailed power studies to be undertaken by EDD
during project execution, in order to determine the
technical and economic feasibility of incorporating
geothermal power into its overall system (para. 50).
42.      The Hanle/Gaggade prospect consists of two grabens located on each
side of a NW-SE trending horst (Babalaou massif) which are considered to
form part of one single geological unit. The prospectivity of the
Hanle/Gaggade area is supported by gas geochemistry and geothermometry
analyses which suggest that temperatures over 200 C may be attained at
drillable depths, as a result of heat produced by regional crustal
fracturing (rather than the presence of a magmatic heat source). This is
very similar to the conditions prevailing in the Basin and Range areas of
the western U.S., where large geothermal fields are being put in
production. The extensive geochemical analyses which were carried out by
Italian consultants in the area also suggest that any fluid found in this
area is unlikely to present the salinity and scaling problems which
characterize Assal (para. 29). In addition, Hanle/Gaggade is one of the
most accessible zones in Djibouti, being located near a paved road. Deep
drilling of the area is therefore fully justified. The proposed temperature
gradient wells are required to locate deep drilling sites and design the
optimal drilling program. A program of four deep wells is considered
technically necessary to fully explore the area, although the possibility
of discontinuing drilling would be provided for in case of discouraging
results.
Project Implementation
43.      ISERST would have overall responsibility for implementation of the
project; however, given its limited operational experience, ISERST's staff
would need to be strengthened by one full-time expatriate serving as
geothermal project manager, who has already been selected, and would
receive assistance from the geothermal engineering and consulting firms
involved in the project. The deep drilling operations would be carried out
by an experienced foreign drilling contractor while ISERST would entrust
the day to day supervision of the drilling operations, the procurement of
consumable drilling materials, and related specialized services to an
experienced geothermal engineering firm which is expected to be hired by
June 1984. This firm would also provide on-the-job training to ISERST's
staff. The gradient drilling on Hanle and the complementary surface works
on Gaggade would be carried out by experienced geothermal
contractors/engineering firms. The role of the expatriate project manager



- 14 -
will be crucial, particularly in light of the need to coordinate the
activities carried out under the separate contracts financed by the various
cofinanciers. The role of the International Scientific Council (para. 31)
would be that of a general advisory body, to be called upon only when
important policy questions are discussed (e.g., assessment of a discovery,
design of a field development program); it would not interfere with the
immediate management of the project, as this would only create confusion
and costly delays. Appropriate environmental and safety criteria would be
applied during drilling operations. The impact on the environment during
subsequent field development and production would be minimized, possibly by
reinjecting the waste fluid into the ground. However, no major
environmental impact is expected since the Hanle area is desertic,
uninhabited and currently unsuitable for agriculture.
44.      Temperature gradient drilling on Hanle is expected to start in
July 1984 and would be completed by October 1984. Complementary surface
exploration works in Gaggade would start by early 1984 and would be
completed by December 1984. Deep drilling could start by the beginning of
1985 (taking into account the time required for mobilization and site
preparation) and would be completed by June 1987, allowing time for testing
and moving between locations, as well as final tests and reservoir
engineering studies. Given the particularly difficult local environment,
drilling time is estimated at about three months per well (2,000 m deep).
Water for drilling would come from existing and to-be-drilled water wells
in the area.
Project Cost
45.      The total cost of the project, net of duties and taxes, is
estimated at US$16.6 million, with a foreign cost of US$14.9 million
(90 percent). The cost of gradient drilling has been estimated on the
basis of informal quotes received from several contractors. The cost
estimate for the deep wells is based on drilling costs of US$15,000 per day
(including materials and supplies); US$1 million for rig
mobilization/demobilization; US$1.3 million for drilling supervision and
logging services; and US$0.9 million for testing and reservoir studies
(1983 prices). Those estimates are in line with current market rates.
Total cost estimates include physical contingencies of           20 percent for
drilling costs and 10 percent for all other components. Price
contingencies of 3.5 percent for 1984, 8.0 percent for 1985 and            9
percent for both 1986 and 1987 have been applied for the foreign and local
cost components.
Financing Plan
46.      The proposed IDA Credit of USS6.0 million equivalent would cover
the foreign cost of: the gradient drilling program on Hanle (under a
PPF advance already approved) the drilling contractor's services and
20 percent of the consumable materials for the drilling program, possible
magnetotellurics in the Gaggade sub-area; and external audits of ISERST. A
UNDP grant of US$1.0 million would finance the services of the Geothermal
Project Manager; training of ISERST staff abroad; and the power studies to
be undertaken by EDD. A grant of US$4.4 million made by the Italian
Government will cover the cost of: project preparation (already carried



- 15 -
out); the engineering and specialized services for the deep drilling
program; the rest of the technical assistance to ISERST (training,
specialized and office equipment, and vehicles); and detailed geology
geochemistry, gravity and electrical resistivity surveys on Gaggade.
Additional financing is to be provided by a US$1.0 million loan made by the
OPEC Fund (17 years including 5 years grace period, 1 percent service
charge) and a US$2.5 million AfDF credit from the African Development Bank
(BAD), both of which would cofinance with IDA the consumable materials for
the deep drilling program. The Italian grant will be provided on a
parallel basis. The OPEC Fund and the BAD financing would be joint with
IDA. The Government would also agree to contribute an aggregate amount of
at least US$1.7 million equivalent towards the cost of the project, about
equal to the estimated local cost component. The BAD credit is expected to
be formally approved in July 1984. Arrangements for cross-effectiveness
with other cofinanciers have been provided (Section 5.01 (b), draft
Development Credit Agreement). The project financing plan can be
summarized as follows:
IDA UNDP Italy BAD OPEC Govt. Total
Deep drilling                     5.4   -       -    2.5   1.0  1.7  10.6
Gradient drilling on Hanle        0.5   -       -      -     -    -    0.5
Complement.  Works on Gaggade   0.1   -        0.4    -      -    -    0.5
Technical assist.  to ISERST:
(i)   Project preparation
& engin. services       -    -      2.9    -      -    -    2.9
(ii)  Project manager            -   0.6      -     -      -    -    0.6
(iii) Training                   -   0.2    0.4    -       -    -    0.6
(iv) Equipment                  -    -      0.7    -      -    -    0.7
Power studies                      -   0.2      -      -     -    -    0.2
6.0  1.0    4.4   2.5   1.0  1.7  16.6
47.      The proposed Credit would be made on standard IDA terms and passed
on to ISERST and EDD as grants (Section 3.01 (b), draft Development Credit
Agreement). Acceptable arrangements would be made for the future transfer
of ISERST's geothermal assets to EDD under appropriate financial terms, and
the recovery of exploration and development investments (para. 33).
Procurement and Disbursement
48.      The contracts for gradient drilling (about US$500,000) and deep
drilling (about US$6.2 million) would be awarded following ICB and
consumable drilling materials (about US$4.4 million) would be procured
following LIT, in accordance with IDA guidelines (Schedule 1, draft Project
Agreement). The firms in charge of carrying out the geology, geochemistry,
gravity and electrical resistivity surveys on Gaggade and of supervising
the deep drilling operations would be selected by the Italian Government
with terms of reference reviewed beforehand by IDA. Hiring of the contrac-
tors in charge of the gradient drilling program and the complementary
surface exploration works, and selection of the engineering firm for the
supervision of the deep drilling program would be conditions of Credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01, draft Development Credit Agreement). INSERST
would agree to submit to IDA a proposed location and detailed drilling



- 16 -
program for each deep well before it is spudded; IDA approval of the first
two deep well sites would also be required before spudding of the first
well (Section 2.01 (b) (ii), draft Project Agreement). Credit disburse-
ments would be fully documented and would be for 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for goods and services financed by IDA except for audit
services for which all of the cost would be financed. Disbursements are
projected on the basis of the Bank's experience with similar projects in
the region and the project's own characteristics, given the absence of a
standard disbursement profile for Djibouti (no fully disbursed credit
yet). The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1986.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
49.      ISERST keeps its accounts in accordance with Government accounting
standards and publishes annual statements. It will hire external auditors
acceptable to IDA to audit its 1983 financial statements and to make
recommendations as to the changes that may be needed in its system of
accounts in order to accommodate future large expenses under the project.
It also intends to strengthen its current accounting/administrative staff
to that effect. ISERST would agree to maintain its overall financial
statements as well as separate project accounts in accordance with sound
accounting principles and to have them audited yearly by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditor's reports would be submitted to
IDA within four months of the end of each fiscal year, starting with 1983
(Section 4.02 (b), draft Project Agreement). External audits for 1983
through 1986 would be financed under the proposed Credit. ISERST would
submit both quarterly and annual reports on project implementation in a
format acceptable to IDA, as well as a project completion report no later
than six months after the closing date of the Credit (Section 2.05 (b) (i)
and (d) (i), draft Project Agreement).
Project Justification
50.      Since the existing data on Hanle/Gaggade does not permit
estimating even a range of reserves with reasonable accuracy (this can only
be done after deep drilling), it is not possible to provide a thorough
economic analysis of the proposed project. However, a preliminary
comparison was made between a theoretical geothermal-based project at
Hanle/Gaggade (using conservative assumptions for well productivity and
success ratio and taking into account the investments necessary for field
development, construction of a 21 MW power plant and a 160 km transmission
line to the city of Djibouti) and an equivalent diesel-based plant, the
only feasible alternative within Djibouti's power development plan
(para. 24). The comparison (see detailed assumptions and calculations in
Annex V) shows a definite cost advantage to geothermal-based power, with
average incremental costs (including exploration and development drilling)
ranging from USc8.6 to USc9.8 per kWh (excluding distribution costs), vs
UScd0.7 to UScI2.6 per kWh for the diesel-based alternative. It also shows
that such a geothermal-based project would generate expected savings of
between US$32 and 45 million (1983 prices) or almost two and three times
the cost of the proposed exploration project, respectively. This analysis
is considered sufficient to justify the initiation of a deep exploratory
drilling program at Hanle/Gaggade. However, more detailed economic and



- 17 -
technical feasibility studies will need to be undertaken during the course
of the exploration program as more information becomes available on the
technical characteristics of the prospect. Their financing would be
provided under the UNDP grant (para. 46) and EDD initiate them as soon as
two wells have been shown to be productive (Section 2.01 (d), draft Project
Agreement). Upon project completion, all existing data will then need to be
integrated into a revised power system development plan in order to
optimize the field development program and the design of generation and
transmission facilities. ISERST should agree to consult with IDA on its
proposals for any such future field development, in light of the results of
the above studies (Section 2.01 (e), draft Project Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
51.      The immediate expected benefit from the project is the proving of
commercial geothermal reserves in the Hanle/Gaggade area. When developed,
these reserves would contribute to reducing the country's current exclusive
reliance on imported fuels to satisfy its energy needs. Another benefit
from the project would be to prepare local entities (ISERST and EDD) to
take an active role in future geothermal exploration, development and
production. The main risk associated with the project is that insufficient
reserves will be found, or that their characteristics (in terms of
temperature or chemical composition) will be such as to prevent development
and production on an economical basis. However, given Djibouti's overall
prospectivity and the current data on the Hanle/Gaggade area, technical
experts have estimated the probability that none of the four exploratory
wells could be economically put into production at no more than 30 percent
and it is believed that this risk is outweighed by the potential benefits
associated with a commercial discovery. Preliminary calculations have
shown the net present value of expected savings associated with a
geothermal exploration/production project (assuming conservative drilling
success ratios) as compared to a diesel-based power project, to range from
US$32 to US$45 million, almost twice and three times the estimated cost of
the proposed exploration investment, respectively (para. 50).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Djibouti and the Association, the draft Project Agreement among the
Association and Institut Superieur d'Etudes et de Recherches Scientifiques
et Techniques and Electricite de Djibouti, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Special conditions of the credit are listed in
Section III of Annex III to this Report.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
4
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 7, 1984
I



- 19 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                           page   1  of  6
DJIBOLTI                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DJIBOTI1                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT LSrIMATE) /b
RECENT               MIDDLEI INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
19bO-/       1970/lb  ESTIMATAL         AFRICA S. OF SAiLARA    N. AFRICA 6 t11  EAST
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. DI)
TOTAL                                    22.0         22.0          22.0
AGRICULTURAL                              2.5          2.5           2.5
GNIP PER CAPITA (US$)                         * *                     480.0               1147.9                       1340.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OF COAL EQLIVALENT)          352.0       6718.0       2143.0                 724.2                        blU.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)         81.0        160.0        380.9
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF IOTAL)            49.6         62.0          73.7                 28.5                         47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATlON IN YCAR 2000 (MILL)                                    U.b
STATIONARY PUPULATION (MILL)
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. t31.                            3.7          7.3         16.0                  56.5                         36.o
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND                33.1          65.3        143.7                 131.8                       449.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                                ..           ..            ..                 45.9                          43.9
15-b4 YRS                                ..           ..            ..                  51.2                         52.B
65 AND ABOVE                             ..           ,.            ..                   2.8                          3.3
POPULArION GROWIH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                   2.7          6.8          7.9/c                 2.6                          2.9
URBAN                                    ..          9.0          9.6                   5.3                         4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)               ..           ..            ..                  47.6                         42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)               ..           ..            ..                  15.2                         12.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    ..           ..            ..                   3.2                          3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TIOUS)
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. FPR CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                              ..           ..            ..                 95.7                          97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)             ..           ..            ..                  97.1                        102.3
PROTEINS (GRA0 S PER DAY)                ..           ..           ..                   5B.0                         72.0
OF WlICH ANIMAL AND PULSE               ..           ..            ..                 17.2                          17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE              23.0         16.0         1O.u                  23.6                        15.2
NFALTD
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIR8IH (YEARS)             ..           ..         45.0/d                51.9                         57.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)            69.1         32.6         30.0/e              117.6                        104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..         43.0/d               25.4                         59.3
URBAN                                    ..           ..         53.07d               70.5                         84.9
RURAL                                    ..           ..         20.07W               12.3                         37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              6230.U        3640.0       4300.0/f            12181.6                       3536.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                    ..        600.0        610.07T             2292.0                       1820.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                120.0         170.0        260.0/f             1075.4                        643.3
URBAN                                   ..           ..            ..               402.3                        545.0
RURAL                                    ..           ..            ..              3926.7                       2462.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..         16.5         13.7/f                  *-                        26.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..            ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..            ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..           ..                   ..                         46.2
URBAN                                   ..            ..           ..                   ..                         77.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..                   ..                         16.1



- 20 -                                                     ANNEX  I
page 2 of 6
T A B L E 3A
DJIBOUTI                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DJIBOUTI                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHITED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960-b       1970b-  ESTI?ATEL-/      AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                        ..           ..           ..                  97.2                         89.6
MALE                        ..           .             ..                1031                         104.8
FEMALE                      ..           ..           ..                  88.5                         72.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                        ..           ..           ..                  17.2                         41.7
MALE                        ..           ..            ..                 23.5                         52.8
FEMALE                      ..           ..            ..                 14.2                         31.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)             37.9          44.0         16.3_L                 5.2                        10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               36.0         36.0         39.0/g               42.9                         31.9                       N
SECONDARY                             13.0         12.0         13.0                 23.7                         23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                   ..            .,         10.0                37.1                         43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP                ..        48.7         42.9/f               18.8                         18.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/ITOUSAUD POP               ..        43.8          48.3                97.8                        138.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                  .          6.3          14.2                18.6                         45.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                  ..           ..           ..                 18.2                         31.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..           ..          2.3/h                0.6                          1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)                  ..
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        ..           ..           ..                 36.1                         10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   ..           ..           ..                 56.8                         42.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      ..           ..           ..                 17.5                        27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                                 ..          ..                 37.0                         25.6
MALE                                    ..           ..           ..                 47.1                        45.4
FEMALE                                  ..           ..            ..                27.0                          5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 ..           ..           ..                  1.3                          1.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
HIGHEST 207 OF HiOUSEHOLDS              ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
POVERTY TARGET GREOUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..            ..               534.2                       276.1
RURAL                                   ..           ..            ..               255.9                       177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                491.5                       400.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                188.1                       283.3
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                  ..                         22.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                  ..                         30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate' between 1979 and 1981.
/c  This high rate reflects steady immigration from neighboring countries; /d 1976; UNICEF data; /e UNICEF data, for
1978; /f 1977; /g 1978; /h 1975.
May 1983



AMonux 
- 21 -                                                                                page 3 of 6
cnpotabla banana, of  b. look of atoadordiad datftitiana  mad -oaari  toad by diIfteeouoooe"iasi  tolrl                       the data.  The dat  a.               ...n.telam   ..atu  to 
d-aib  ardor, of  ogolttudo, itdi-sta  aettda. sad tarh otaei..  -arsi  -aJor ditarauta. bat-a.otati
TVer. artt..gr.p P.Ara Cl) ahba-pe  tutr t-roop of abh  auhbt    nootty ad (21 a r-ot,r troop alt). a-eot   higher o-erge Into.. th    the t-ntry group of the
aghiunt  -utory (anca.Pt for  High It_os   iii E.ttae  grouP abt  ;tiddaIn---t.                 l t  frti-oh   and tMuddit Uast  1a thoae  b-roua  ofaruaroc-ulua
ttfi.tfias).  tn tha otea     -agop data tha. a.r.a. art population aagbtd -riaot it sausto  auth itdiuaoot aud af.o  to yh                           ajoiy  oftteourIoa  itn
goP bo: data for that Ili-dtto.  SIt:tahab  toatog  of o--tetaasoo   ahe in4itoto.a dopoda on Otho.. anattabiloy it dot   o  isotuifr,ooto    utb
aoerisadin rlatlg aooogt  of  ut tdiosoor to suothao   T .     .oa ...e.s ara ouly osato~l in tosparln   the  ao  o   n   lolao    t   as   eu   hoouysd
AREfA oaadaqA.                                                                                        "PolainprPantn-ouain diotld by  isbat of proptitiog
~"'t -To.)I auFoo  0000 oopttalol loud araaatd anlaud ootara; ii6),                                ptoas tutidtu    sd ito  s_hool ot  oi-oraity   late).
1971 sod (9I0 dato..Polt    rot ttNstom  Parson-   ouoiodinidad hy  ubor of ptootitiog
Mrnlo   -Eiat  If ag,jltol.u.o Ita -     ad t,apo iooi         . or .p ..ostani             solo and faoola g.d.t..uat  ...aato  noter. .aniti _taa an
fintopo. puaua,sra   u  kloohan gerdaua ot to li  fo1l.); 19h0,                                  torsaooolt.i..
lift mod 1990 doom.                                                                              Pupu1.iott    P-  iaia   r      otl  pa.sdrt)      oplot   ttl
uhat, tod rura) dlniddbybirasott nosier of hosptalud
tar PER CAPITA (U10) - GNP0 Per -ptop. sata Ast noIrnat asnhst peloes t                                 atailobte  in poblit td p,inate g...to  so.d spettliad ho-pitat tAnd
tuliulsitod by s-  ouontostbhd mA V.r1d Itk AtLos (I979-ti haste);                                    rshsbitlattiooet--n.  tt-Pltolasruasotuhlishmett   pet-tenly stffed
i9il. 1970  ..ad 19fi dots,                                                                           by on  .oat one ph pyio.Oaalttonapnid-                     plniltpa1ly  -tmidial
tar. cr0 ntioldd         huno  hoalits, hoea, 1-Iodid   has1th And
atuffCf CONSUMPTInOt CAPITA -            1'P dotoS apapau   Wopino of  -oeeri-t                                               P-ittnor   u   p 'anetysttfftd hr aPhyalola  (hot bps Ae.diia
peitaty sn.argylo)anlgna, Aonoaou  oonot go  to    yr-,ttao                                           sltto.oua ..aldotfe  coo.) oihio  offtl-ptetansottocd
O                     co~~~~.d geonhorsa  olapoIroity   oAlgaao   olrotittprtpt;poiea ttod  ageo  efoaP.oltto.Pt sa  atalpru
iihO. 197), oud 1980 data,                                                                           urban hoapitola  -otod   ,ilspIt         tgIStral  hoa'pitola, audroa
heptao  toot  orrelhoopittia and outtLual andsoeiyaoo
ANDOUOOlI VITAL. STATISTICS                                                                      Opcolod   oPtooatIcueonyodrot.
Tots) Porulatiti. aid-Otar (oltatodo) - Ia of Joty 1; 1990, 7til. ad 1981          MtAd lono 1pen Ooatpitl Bed- Tota  nober if adalto.. to or dlo-hangeo
data.                                                                     t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rue hoaplta1  d)ided by the tobet of loda.
InbanPplon on (er l o. If titl)      P               ltb,o,uho   ,to toa  ppo.imono;
*                      ~~~~~~~~~difttanet defi.tlttn   of orh   aes  sayaf_oo   ooparahility 00 dato                   HOUSINbG
asn    totirn; 1960, 1970, sod 1991 dato.                                                   Snro   ion tfHtttuohild (teran   e  hIooortotd)     otl  ubnand euro)
______________________                                                          htoaet~~~ b -- - .odtt.ntieto ofairupo    iduloul   hi ah.ra ltiog qoartoro
PPutlatlo.t I  y-o  2000 - C-ortetppuo tp-ojarittoo  st  booed to 1991                             aud thuirat.io  so        A hoarder to 1odar ey in say tit hr  _inlded Ir
auto   ipulotiun bylgemo  su  o Ithe1ir  . sutoity  nd ftrllIty                                  the hiuoehold foraolaio   pu-poara.
rts Proe ctonp tastn   o f.              Itmlity raao  uspts o_li.fthaAupltuur ohorua  t  no                                            Ot),ohn,..cd rot)  naog  oumber
loea  moto  lift oopouosiy ut il.htI.........o .tth .toiy's  aro  proo r                                     noe  n  lturanJad  -na   nope  oneolt
..,ita  toots  tonal, aod fsl  lIeaytta-c y-bilting at 77,5                                      dooltto   -oPentloollp.  D0.tl 1 ii, ainlde  oi-esoettonuttd
paints.  The porstotro for fortillty rao  lt  bn  thret lanlaonouie  Pat.,
aaIan, dnlnei  fertilIt  atodo   obotitlsdpo   acl                                              neanOetlt0 protf da.) lit  -tta,upon   tdrta 
pltntIM  raro--o.  factt  -uottoy    then Iattdtoo   hoeleCnotinldoe 1tt-  olti  le-sinntny ii lnotnon-                                                          o00n  nttm
ne- naitim. ofanuaity ond fortity truafrpoeto   opaa                                              fttl   r Ainoi  rural dotlli.go teapotiolne.
since the bthlrtitotI   qulO ITito.  ethlae,sd mlEthDgoUlCATION
_iuturpal       tspoaat        TIst  ohlotend olyofe  ferIiyratta                            Adju~ted fort)1bent  Pioln
Populafit  ml seoa  ettimted ot oth  boaia of othe pt-jenut   rte-priaryo-h-l-age  iplatit;to lly )-T loo   hlldrnme  hlt
iaiao   he ppln  itth -pa  2000), And toort   f  elo   f                                       n     u  adjutod  nrIiffnoot          taot    If primary    . edtott;fi
tetIlyrte  nnpaeai   eo                                                                    nC-inle"t tIiothotoatat  odntttiulantyoon d  10   orteo
l..r ottoap pnrulutto  to roo-hrd - PThpea Fe            entttoalie-  po.tporia are belta 00 0100  thte  fifflot  mnhio) at.
,mplatlot olse all) hr reoihed.                                                                   otdayoon-ttt..mal and femalo - Cuatnodaa-hb-;oetdr
IPiplfu  )At-tty                                                                                        odcro    tire    et   oryton   PPru..r  pploary ..n..trutinn;
Par~n.he.- tld-satp.uptto Pne  sqar  Chooser (101 he-trea) If                                   rntogera,tatio,rtonrtritlog loon.o.o.                               mfur
otall  ara      u  1070  and, 190) date                                                            popla totally of 12 ii 17 year. if ode; tre ptrnnr arr
pre to. ho:   eicloulln   - Comptnd 00 thono for  gnoututlltd                                         geuo.r.ly ein)del.
oily)  lOt.0, 197) .of 1980 dat,                                                              Vipolou  Ionlae,n (prnni ISI           "iudary) -  .-ioaionc   tooliutinoj
Po    A'io   ea ltro-un   (prto)      ildOr- (0-14 pero,       kirht-ogo (15-                  !,itnldtehoo,ldonu                 tohobo  proir...ouhi.h tpurte i.d,peod-
h4 yearo), adretired (Il  y.ar.  .td Ito)  sptrontageo  t aid-yeon                                 ently ont-      eatst    f arnoda-ytm utom
pooll 6;lo., 1971  And 10   oa                                                            Potttattrrii-o2                y  and  atodary - Total atodenim enrolld In
Porolaflotn troath bateI peott)-tota  - Annua  l roth raise of tutat std-                             peoaynod  ..noodopYteeIo d1ltded hy n-e-  of ra...hero in Ott our-
peon  poplattifo  19n -hf  iiO-1md 1.970-01                                                       ropodng_neo
ftpototion Onto_h  tot  (rraiP          rban - Ant_I arog      ea     f oth-                       adult 10 trapy toto! (n ti ) - It:ttert   dolto  (otte to tend toP ante 10
piplattuit foe 1950-h), l9t)-7), and 1970-tl,                                                      a- ..r...mf  of itta1 adult pipo1Lot  aged IS yoora todonr
Ce.de Birth bat ~(nr tioni-d) -  ooA-1 line tirtba pet thonaod of mid-
~poor pipulo196o  1970 0, ,A oo  1901 d ataCI'llthtPt-t-Cdnh..                                                                                                                An
bis erndoie    OtaAnaag o.sbet of datahterao : Aus   0111  orI                               i itary tohtilem.1
he onoo  rpodo     MnIoo  If ah. sopert.eott  Praoo  agt-spectfIo                              RudIo Re.otnora (eon thtuutnd tpoPIaito) - All typos of rtetn-os for rodtn
fertility  -Itaa;  -oullyfio-yat.. -naago   ending It t960, 1970, And                              bnnadnonio  tn getot1 puttit Per o1tu....d of pupolmolo;  ntld
1981.                                                                                              tOcnedrc ine d   .Tootre  and to 700Pm then rgbtrtint ofadi.
Pt'Yplcto-pttra  Muua   thooud)-  Aotoal oushr of-aopatr..                                         aataa   to efot  d.ta fie nenuit peara  -ay  -i he noepaahle atone  -oe
of ttroh-nitrtl denttt oidrrauplteo o  ua'.tln...l fatly plancit                          ott,romhliahed IIe...o. ig
progrte.                                                         TV totelnora Ire rthouauod y~~~~~~PPIpulttool -;TV r....tnios fur hndota  to
doalloPotu     op   rnto   Oarldesn  - -fc                             ..g te s..t. etnra   piblinjf  pI Ihoon                           )o);tolde- to) annd fTV renoi-oa
utee  of nttld-hongae(-4fom unoahrt-uto   daticro  to                                               ontire o In --eorm  attn  rittoioof TV menu..Inf.t
o))  eonld a_ae  to soc.e  Aie 0tu.Ouprr   lcluonp   tnoodpplt ) - Sotte  tyg
Indro ifPi.     eanto  pe    att   )96t7-7 Il0) -Itdet if pen  -tmi t                                  ohtunn   drootdprtulio r-rodi8gonen .                    t..       It1 t0 nt-ldtrrd
anond) prdocIli.   fnlfn .        imtit.s   Pndntoteoldem  seed aud                                tt he ndotly'*t   tpermtloifu   temeh
teed aud Ia  0tlum    orbtl.Csoitsoo   pela.ngood  (e.g.Cneea  denial AtIttndotce per Cpnito per tear - ite   n  fro-bto
sugu'reae  uaea         ogn)eho  ae  dil  t.. toota.  outnont  tt.atilneta aild doring t1he ytar, tontudtng adisatono  ti dttoa-io nIIeaa and
toff-e nrd tre n.erldd.AOggreaote poodooti  of tac ..hotor  10                                     sihile uotoa.
heo tt tautol strago prducen ptlne ttnghts;199-h5, 1970, And 1901
Pe n os       piply  fnlno  (to:rcnto  ufreolesu ) - Coeptond fPt                                  Oto  =oho  Pitit. (ath-uodm) - EIn....i-llp otti-  oeos  ticludlog arsed
nioripquinalna  uf  et fond mppllsa enalablen  i ..cutiry pee capIta per                     ftrcru nooeaplipYedb tot -iludin& boumalno, atodans*ot,oa
-da;y. AnmIlotle supte   tprisa duseato   rdoln, pesta Ipopult...Io   f  l  aoee.    ftttnInart1 tid  te   art, to
eaon,  n   hengee in sooth.  oat1 mpplios eioladraosa  fed   tdo,                            -p-atale; fill, 1970 aod 1901 deta,
quoniteoodlofn   prooattg, sod I..aaa to ditsttbF.-u Pepl  (peno-ot) - P ..eale  baho  fo.  i   etotg   ftn                                                             aorfr.
oequesonteneotts-td bp PAP board to phyaiouigloo  neeado for  -ota                          dgtuir    eoc)-tboo Ounce in fasmiog, f                         h-or,uting mod
mo 'tfot  and boo   _oaadeeltgenioa o            WeYrr,bd    .egt,fotgt  p.  eroeae of tital labor force; I960, 190f  and f901 datb,
a go  od an dtartbuttn   f pupultiotto  tod s1ooing 10 peroo -  te aoOtdooenr                            rcn L -Ibtr finece            i1 ...n g   ......ta.n..t s..dcor.
atr hPiot.l _lloe); 1961-hO, 19ff tad 1900 dota.                                                      sod ren-etnity  outer and gao coP cuan.fttllbr   force) 1960,
Per purin  aurply  f oieo(a a ten dan) - Prten ttuto. fPero  o.Pot.                               1970 mud 1991 data,
ot   opy  ffn  pedy   i apl  of.fod ta defioed A. aboePrtI antiorpein) -nt                                                          ot,saecdfel-Pnc tIoo  a
ieqlraons  on  llott tIosratablished by fOlDAP- ponda o.       I to                             cltytiorraptd                    total -aLa,adfst   oo   ico
atltoaoso  f 90  osa.  f total pettat  per dey And 20 goA-, oftlst d                        P...e..a1o  of Otto), aie and fettle  pepola'ttt   Oa lgaraptar
P"lo  prteo  ofe ahit  IS heom   itld.h   ia  prtl.  OThes                                         196D, 107,  .nd 1991 data.  rheto ass boaod on ila'a partnlpat tot ratto
attadoed.  r  Outerttha   hos  ut 75  rAsl      f  t.to  penitio mud 23 gras                       reiil"Ie-e   nutn  of the  Ptpa)ttoo, and Ibug  olatea-d.A
tf  tl_l proot.n o    oetefirtohm aortd, "peopicd by PAO It the                                   t   alat.oetrtottaouot
a                      ThiPd ~~~~~~~lur,Id PuI lurtey; 1961-65, 1970 and 1980 dtio.                                      pcoti        liroeory Rott   - Ratlo  it popoletio.nntdot IS and h5 cod tier to
Par omnta protrl  tP'Iy Onto otts sod  "I.a. - Peotoi soopty of itd                             thr toallot  fout
derlo-d fete atttlaad pol.ea In Seast pt day; 1961-65, 1970 mod 1977
Child(gt 1-4) Detoh bane (rer ihiotaid) - den-ia  daaoh  pee tboo d It                             Ptretg   fPltnIcn bt   ioa  od hOod) - iRcetn-d bp elihmi 5
aerop1-4 yeora, tohcbldre-  In thIog grop  fo  eatde-eloptag                                 Pfoment, ith-a  Of prc:tit *pooneat 20prei  and Poae-  4l portent of
ttoiimdota deetnu   fro  lifa  totles; 19h0. 1970 mtd 1981 data.                              hoela
Tfi Fononfauny at tirob (yrear)- Areae  ubop of psra of lIfe rosalolg                              7t17Tf"IlTtjsoite   arenapproat  semiett  poneny lenelt, and
at bilrth; 19h0, 1970 audtOt Aatt.                                                                 sheud  he Itienpranod      l1i otbcti deratle  c-titta
tfent Mntto ftat gat_  Ierthotso)    AttIa  dsbof inofcota otde' o                                et--ted Ab-onato Pno yt tnnoe Coel (toy nor cPols) -arbon and rim)1
peer of moo Pero theaid line birth.; 1990, 1970 aod 1981 dat.                                       Aal        onrytctotntt   the  Inco.  1eor  belta  hic~hfa eto .lo
koa  f. ta   Ator (peerto-  ftpboot - tita)   lrb,, sond pase            -euetntl    dqut  dOn  plot eoeottt-food rnqotre...o  O  _tt
thobet of people (ftota,  ebso, tnd n )so   ne.sn...ecr..s on aofa                                 afftedable.
naasPPty(ilotdas treto-d surfei  eters or  tot..reatd boa                                    fatloa-d telotino Ponertn Inc..t 1en.  (CO oU              m e -rhtod rotut1
u     tnnalolda ttai  me t.. mfootproteced buo..bilem, spritgs, mood                         goaeoltin   p-inety totte  lane  CoInooh    of-oaeprcpita
atloyotl)a.     etetgeu         ierepolnl peoloatae   itoperattua  iinmon if the ..tanry.  Orbut lent  Ie dorio-d fromte  oa
oboeapabIttI     ott   eeinp            oae  at sor  oto  201 e.te                          tene  wIth adj-tostit too highter toat  f lining it orb.urt
fru  a         .bm   say he  Ioadered  ba eing olthl  reaonble scoes  ofabt                      Omola-ed Popu.utI-n filno Abo.ilti  P.ort  -toeCn)(oon) - orhac
bauae. Inrrloearess... bles ..s  woud iplyr. abt She booeife on                                mod  uro) - Per-t if popiottin  (urho  androtl)   Aremo  ".bsl.tr
the dmy It fotbtog tie foatly'a voter neds.
pInte-lomcifptt(oal  nobao, and-onal  seined bycra
dapt.... a. rpncooaus if theirrsettepepolatto-    toc-ut  diap .atI
saY docludo tht iu cloAnd diapeem) , vItb  -e ethbut troata..ot, of                                                                      Erios=   mod Sbolo lits mutto.n
h...o.e.ceetaodwmatr-tta taiby  atse-boeoe ayate. to th. us  of pit                                                                tcicntnl  deayoto aid PnnjtptIons.  epItponso
prinViea aid attalar Loa.a..atla.                                                                                                                       My 1983



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
DJIBOUTI: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1982
Annual Rate of Growth
(Constant prices)
US$ Mln      %        1979-82        1981-82
GDP at Market Prices                  355,0   100,0          3,0             2,3
Gross Domestic Investment              87,3    24,6         38,0            22,5
Gross Domestic Saving                 -35,1      9,9            -              -
Gross National Saving                   4,3      1,2            -              -
Exports of Goods and Services         121,1    34,1         -4,6            -9,7
Imports of Goods and Services         243,5    68,6          8,8             5,1
OUTPUT IN 1982
Value Added
US$ Mln.        %
Agriculture                                        22,3           6,3
Industry                                          49,1           13,8
Services                                         222,5           62,7
Unallocated                                       61,1           17,2
355,0         100,0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1982            % of GDP
US$ Mln        1978-82    1982
Total Receipts                             132,2           34,4      37,2
Current Expenditure                        111,9           22,6      31,5
Current Surplus                             20,3           11,8       5,7
Capital Expenditure                         65,3           17,8      18,4
Capital Grants                              29,8            7,6       8,4
Global Surplus/Deficit                     -15,2             1,7     -4,3



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                  1978    1979    1980    1981    1982
(In US$ Mln. outstanding end period.)
Money Supply                             83,4    103,0   111,9  119,5  147,8
Bank Credit to Public Sector            -36,2    -46,7   -66,4  -77,9  -57,8
Bank Credit to Private Sector            26,1      41,5    55,7   68,8   95,4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money Supply
As Percentage of GDP                     34,9      36,1    34,0   33,6   41,4
GDP Deflator (1978 = 100)                100,0    114,9   128,1  134,4  132,2
Annual Percentage Changes in:
GDP Deflator                               -       14,9    11,5    4,9   -1,6
Bank Credit to Public Sector               -       29,0    42,2   17,3  -25,8
Bank Credit to Private Sector              -       59,2    34,2   23,4   38,6



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
DJIBOUTI: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million)
1978     1980       1981 1!      1982 1/
Exports of goods, NFS.                109      143        138          121
Imports of goods, NFS.                130      214        222          243
Resource Gap                         -21       -71        -84         -122
Factor Payments, Net                 -18       -17        -15          -28
Unrequitted Transfers, Net             46       73         73           68
Balance on Current Account              7      -15        -26          -82
MLT Borrowing, Net                     -1        8         -1           23
Private Investment, Net               -5        10         11           12
Capital Grants                         20       28         24           13
Errors and Omissions                    -       -3          5           -2
Variations in Reserves                  -      -28        -13           36
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Fixed parity between Djibouti france and US$
US$ 1 = DF 177.721
Exports in 1982
US$ mln.                   %
Exports of Goods in Transit                       33                     27
Re-exports of Goods                              50                      41
Exports of Services                              38                      32
Total                                            121                    100
EXTERNAL DEBT, December 1982                              US$ mln.
External Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed              40.1
DEBT SERVICE AS % OF 1982 EXPORTS
1.  Debt service as % of total exports                       2.8
2.  Debt service as % of locally produced exports2/          9.0
1/ Provisional estimates.
2/ Since almost all goods exported from Djibouti are re-exports, total
foreign exchange revenue earned by the Djibouti economy comes mainly
from exports of services.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN DJIBOUTI
A. Statement of Bank Loans IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1984)
Loan or                                            US$ million Amount
Credit                                               Less Cancellations
Number     Year      Borrower   Purpose         Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1232-DJ    1982      Djibouti   Technical         -    3.0       2.22
Assistance
for Planning
& Statistics
1303-DJ    1983      Djibouti   1st Highway             6.4      6.04
TOTAL                                       -   9.4       8.26
of which had been repaid                      -     -         -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/         _     9.4
TOTAL undisbursed                           -   9.4       8.26
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.    Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1984)
None



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.    Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         11 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                   Consultants
(c)  Appraisal mission:                     June 1983
(d)  Negotiations:                          April 1984
(e)  Board Presentation:                   May 1984
(f)  Date of effectiveness:                August 1984 (planned)
TI.   Special IDA Implementation Action
None
iII. Special Conditions
The Government would:
(i) Ensure that, in case of discovery, ISERST's geothermal
staff would be transferred to EDD when geothermal power
production is started and that the cost of productive
geothermal wells would be ultimately recovered through
EDD's tariffs (para. 33);
(ii) Pass on the Credit proceeds to ISERST as a grant, provided
that in case of a commercial discovery, arrangements
acceptable to IDA would be made between the Government,
ISERST and EDD to ensure the transfer to EDD of ISERST's
productive assets under appropriate financial terms when
geothermal power production is started (paras. 33 and 47);
and
ISERST would:
(i) discuss with IDA its proposals for development of any
discovery resulting from the proposed project (para. 50);
and
(ii) Submit to IDA a proposed location and detailed drilling
program for each deep well before it is spudded; IDA
approval of the first two deep well sites would also be
required before spudding of the first well (para. 48).



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
EDD would:
(i) initiate the proposed power studies as soon as two wells
have been shown to be productive (para. 50).
Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i)  Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the cofinanciers' respective loans and
grants (para 46);
(ii)  Hiring of contractors for (a) the temperature gradient
drilling program and (b) the complementary surface
exploration works (para. 48); and
(iii)  Selection of the engineering firm for the deep drilling
program (para. 48).



- 28 -
ANNEX IV
DJIBOUTI
GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION PROJECT
Key Dates in Project
Hiring of consultants for complementary works on Gaggade   May 1984
Hiring of expatriate Project Manager                           May 1984
Hiring of contractors for gradient drilling on Hanle           June 1984
Hiring of deep drilling engineering firm                       June 1984
Call for bids on deep drilling contract                        August 1984
Completion of gradient drilling                                October 1984
Completion of complementary exploration works                  December 1984
Signing of deep drilling contract                              January 1985
Spudding of first deep well                                    April 1985
Initiation of geothermal power studies by EDD                  June 1985
Completion of last deep well                                   June 1986
Completion of tests and studies                                April 1987



NAUDI AUAB A                                                                                                   DOUMEIRA
DJI BOUT I                                       - 
S/DAT.~~~~~A- 
sur"M                                 ~~~~GEOTHERMAL EXPLORATION 
PROJECT
SOMALIA
S  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
-IEN 
I                            A~~udOiONOil-,
C) F,/~
--------- -----                             A N C                                                                 zK'''
A
/                         0,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
F~~ A FFA U~~~~ -Ih/0
OF                     M-ol0- 
DA0                       2                                             -K'Aol'i'h
<5'      /                                                                       N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D h 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
EDt TOOC'fP
Doy0~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~0
losre ~ ~ ~~~0- C



