r OFFICIAL      CREDIT NUMBER 1488 DJI
UUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Geothermal Exploration Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   (   O, 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1488 DJI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         )wi4A               , 1984, between
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI (hereinafter called the Borrower or Djibou-
ti) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Prcj-
ect described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the   Borrower  has  requested  from  the Republic   of
Italy a grant (hereinafter called the Italian Grant), in an
amount equivalent to four million four hundred thousand dollars
(US$4,400,000) to assist in the financing of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement between the
Borrower and the Republic of Italy;
(C) the Borrower has requested from the African Development
Bank (hereinafter called the ADB) a loan (hereinafter called the
ADB Loan), in an amount equivalent to two million five hundred
thousand dollars (US$2,500,000) to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
between the Borrower and the ADB;
(D) the Borrower has requested from the OPEC Fund for In-
ternational Development (hereinafter called OPEC Fund) a loan
(hereinafter called the OPEC Fund Loau), in an amount equivalent
to one million dollars (US$1,000,000), to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
between the Borrower and the OPEC Fund;
(E) the Borrower has requested from the United Nations De-
velopment Programme (hereinafter called UNDP) a grant (herein-
after called the UNDP Grant), in an amount equivalent to one
million dollars (US$1,000,000), to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
between the Borrower and UNDP; and
(F) Parts A, B and C of the Project will be carried out by
Institut Sup6rieur d'Etudes et de Recherches Scientifiques et
Techniques, an etablissement public existing under the laws of
Djibouti, (hereinafter called ISERST) and Part D by Electricitg
de Djibouti, an 6tablissement public also existing under the laws
of Djibouti (hereinafter called EDD), with the Borrower's


﻿-2-
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to ISERST the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, ISER5T and
EDD;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Developmeat Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "ISERST Legislation" means, collectively, the Bor-
rower's Ordonnance No. 78-021 of February 23, 1978 and Dfcret
No. 78-046 of June 14, 1978, as amended from time to time.
(b)   "EDD Legislation" means, collectively, the Borrower's
D6cret No. 77-079/PR/MRI of December 20, 1977 and Arr6te No.
83-0447/PR/MIDI of March 22, 1983, as amended from time to time.
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Asso-
ciation, ISERST and EDD of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement.
(d) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower


﻿-3-
pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated March 17, 1984, and
March 27, 1984, between the Borrower and the Association.
(e) "Geothermal Project Manager" means the person referred
to in Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01.  The   Association  agrees  to  lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to five million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 5,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Asso-
ciation shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
oi the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1,
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1994, and ending December 1,
? 33, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 2003 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. ISERST is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLY III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 hereto,


﻿- 5,
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause ISERST and EDD to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all their
respective obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to
be  taken   all  action,   including   the  provision   of  funds,
facilities,   services   and   other   resources,   necessary   or
appropriate to enable ISERST and EDD to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available as a grant to ISERST,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, in case of commercial dis-
covery under Part A of the Project, take all appropriate steps to
enable:
(a) ISERST to transfer to EDD its geothermal staff and
assets and to make EDD assume the costs of geothermal exploration
activities under such Part of the Project, all under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association; and
(b) EDD to recover the costs of geothermal exploration
activities and exploitation investments under such Part of the
Project, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association
(and in particular through tariff adjustments).
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions .the follow!ng additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) ISERST or EDD shall have failed to perform any of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that ISERST or EDD will be able to per-
form their respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The ISERST Legislation or the EDD Legislation shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as


﻿-6-
to affect materially and adversely the ability of ISERST or EDD
to perform any of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ISERST or EDD or for the suspension of their respective
operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower, to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan (including the
Italian Grant, the ADB Loan, the OPEC Fund
Loan or the UNDP Grant) made to the Borrower,
for the financing of the Project shall have
been suspendedi- cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower, to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower, from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement
and of ISERST and EDD under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)  The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower, ISERST and EDD.


﻿-7-
(b)  Any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
(c) The event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of     Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) The Association has been notified by the Republic of
Italy, the ADB, the OPEC Fund and UNDP that all conditions pre-
cedent to the first disbursement of their respective loan and
grants to the Borrower for the Project, except for the effective-
ness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
(b) The Borrower has made available to ISERST the equiva-
lent of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in Section 3.01
(b) hereof.
(c) Contracts for the works under Parts A (a) and B of the
Project, satisfactory to the Association, have been entered into
by ISERST with contractors acceptable to the Association and the
consultants for Part C (b) of the Project have been employed as
provided in Section 2.02 (b) of the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by ISERST and EDD and is legally binding upon ISERST and EDD in
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date   (V\0.A3     \LE  \   )    is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-8-
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
(20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addressis
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 hereof, the
Minister of Finances and Economy of the Borrower is designated as
representative cf the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finances
and Economy
Djibouti
Republic of Djibouti
Telex:
5871 DJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   ixV
Regional Vice    esident
Eastern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Works under Part A       3,540,000          89.4% of foreign
of the Project                             expenditures
(2) Goods under Part A         850,000         100% of foreign
of the Project                             expenditures
(3) Works under Part B          90,000          100% of foreign
of the Project                             expenditures
(4) Consultants'                70,000          100%
services under
Part C (f) of
the Project
(5) Refunding of               520,000         Amount due
Project Prepara-
tion Advance
(6) Unallocated                630,000
TOTAL         5,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term        "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods and services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Bor-
rower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of


﻿- 11 -
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are to explore Djibouti's
indigenous sources of geothermal energy and, in particular, to
prove   commercialliv  exploitable  geothermal  reserves  in   the
Hanle-Gaggade area and to strengthen ISERST's operational
capability to enable it to gradually take a more active role in
geothermal   exploration  and   exploitation   activities,  while
preparing   EDD  to   incorporate  geothermal   power  production
facilities into its system. To that end, the Project consists of
the following Parts:
Part A:
Drilling in the Hanle-Gaggade area, including:
(a) a program of about two temperature gradient wells (each
about 450 m deep) in the Hanle graben, including necessary
geological and temperature logging, and studies to integrate
their results with the existing data in order to select deep
drilling sites; and
(b) a program of up to four exploratory wells (each about
2,000 m deep).
Part B:
Complementary surface exploration in the Gaggade sub-area,
including:
(a) geophysical works (gravity, electrical resistivity, and
possibly magnetotelluric surveys if justified); and
(b) studies to integrate data and determine possible alter-
native drilling sites.
Part C:
Strengthening of ISERST, through:
(a) the provision of the services of a geothermal project
manager in ISERST;


﻿- 13 -
(b) the provision of engineering services for the supervi-
sion of the deep drilling operations and the carrying out of
specialized services under Part A (b) of the Project;
(c) the training of ISERST staff in Djibouti and abroad;
(d) the purchase of specialized geothermal equipment to be
used during the execution of the Project;
(e) the provision of office eqo ipment and vehicles; and
(f) the carrying out of external audits of ISERST's
accounts.
Part D:
Detailed studies to be undertaken by EDD during the execu-
tion of the Project in order to determine the technical and
economic feasibility of incorporating geothermal power production
facilities into its system.
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 1987.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of    O ve
198 .
FOR SECRETARY


