CREDIT NUMBER 1488 DJI
SOFFI CIAL
DOCUNIENTS
Project Agreement
(Geothermal Exploration Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INSTITUT SUPERIEUR D'ETUDES ET DE
RECHERCHES SCIENTIFIQUES ET TECHNIQUES
and
ELECTRICITE DE DJIBOUTI
Dated                            , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1488 DJI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                , 1984, among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Asscciation), INSTITUT SUPERIEUR D'ETUDES ET DE RECHERCHES
SCIENTIFIQUES ET TECHNIQUES (hereinafter called ISERST), and
ELECTRICITE DE DJIBOUTI (hereinafter called EDD).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even      date
herewith between Republic of Djibouti (hereinafter called the
Borrower or Djibouti) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million seven hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,700,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that ISERST and EDD agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS ISERST and EDD, in consideration of the foregoing,
have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
kxecution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of ISERST and EDD declares its com-
mitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Sched-
ule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end,
ISERST shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project and EDD
Part D of the Project described in said Schedule with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
(b)  (i)  ISERST shall spud each of the exploratory wells
under Part A of the Project only as and when the
Association shall have reviewed and approved both
the site selection of, and the drilling program
for, such well.
(ii) It is further specified that the Association's
approval of the site selection of the second of
such wells shall be required before ISERST may
spud the first of such wells.
(c) ISERST shall, until completion of the Project, continue
to employ a Geothermal Project Manager whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
(d) EDD shall initiate Part D of the Project, as and when
at least two wells under Part A of the Project shall, after
appropriate testing, have shown productive results.
(e)  (i) As and when a discovery of geothermal sources
shall have been made in the Hanle-Gaggade area,
ISERST shall seek the views of the Association as
to the commerciality of such discovery and
ISERST's proposals to eventually develop such a
field.
(ii) As and when such a discovery shall have been
determined to be commercial, taking into account
the A,ociation's views and the results of the
studies included in Part D of the Project, ISERST
and EDD shall each take all appropriate steps, in
cooperation with the Borrower, to ensure that the
actions referred to in Section 3.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement may be promptly
completed  in   a   manner  satisfactory   to  the
Association.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist ISERST in carrying out
Part C (f) of the Project, ISERST shall, by June 30, 1984, employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers


﻿-3-
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
(b) In order to assist ISERST in carrying out Part C (b) of
the Project, ISERST shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
(c) In order to assist ISERST in carrying out the Project
(with the exception of Part C (b) and (f) thereof), ISERST shall,
as and when needed, employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) ISERST undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by ISERST to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) ISERST shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) ISERST shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules of
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) (i) ISERST shall: (A) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived therefrom), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;


﻿-4-
(B) enable the Association's representatives to
visit   the  facilities   and  construction   sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (C) furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such
information   (including   quarterly   and   annual
reports prepared according to a format acceptable
to the Association) as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived   therefrom,  the   expenditures  of   such
proceeds and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(ii) EDD   shall  provide   ISERST  with  all   necessary
assistance in the preparation of the quarterly and
annual reports referred to in sub-paragraph (b)
(i) (C) above.
(c) Upon the award by ISERST of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish & description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d)  (i) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in
in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for   this   purpose   between   ISERST   and   the
Association, ISERST shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by ISERST,
EDD and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(ii) EDD   shall   provide  ISERST  with   all  necessary
assistance in the preparation of the completion
report referred to in sub-paragraph (d) (i) above.
(e) ISERST shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all its installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment and any relevant records and documents.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. (a) ISERST and EDD shall each, at the request
of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of Parts A, B and C of the Project (as
regards ISERST) and Part D of the Project (as regards EDD), the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)    ISERST  and  EDD  shall   each  promptly  inform  the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of Parts A, B and C of the Project
(as regards ISERST) and Part D of the Project (as regards EDD),
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by ISERST and EDD of their respective obligations
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
ISERST and EDD
Section 3.01. ISERST and EDD shall each carry on its opera-
tions and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound adminis-
trative, financial and engineering practices under the supervi-
sion of qualified and experienced management (including the Geo-
thermal Project Manager, as regards ISERST) assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ISERST shall at all times operate and maintain
its machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.
Section 3.03. ISERST shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ISERST shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition,


﻿C                                  -6-
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures of the Project.
Section 4.02. ISERST shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
and the separate accounts of the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts, financial statements, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Sieoction 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect 'n the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes seffective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, ISERST and EDD thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If   the  Development  Credit  Agreement   terminates  in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph


﻿-7-
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ISERST and EDD of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand against a receipt or by
mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States or America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ISERST:
Institut Supfrieur d'Etudes et de Recherches
Scientifiques et Techniques
B.P. 486
Djibouti
Republic of Djibouti
Telex:
5811 DJ


﻿-8-
For EDD:
Electricite de Djibouti
B.P. 175
Djibouti
Republic of Djibouti
Telex:
5842 DJIBELEC
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, (i) under
this Agreement, or under Section 2.10 of the Development Credit
Agreement, on behalf of ISERST may be taken or executed by its
Directeur or such other person or persons as ISERST shall desig-
nate in writing, and (ii) under this Agreement on behalf of EDD
may be taken or executed by its Directeur General or such other
person or persons as EDD shall designate in writing, and ISERST
and EDD shall each furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vce President
Eastern Africa
INSTITUT SUPERIEUR D'ETUDES ET DE
RECHERCHES SCIENTIFIQUES ET TECHNIQUES
By
Authorized Representative
ELECTRICITE DE DJIBOUTI
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, ISERST shall prepare and forward
to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for
the publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifi-
cation to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods and works in question. ISERST shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods, of-
fered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods included in Part A of the Project may be
awarded through limited international procedures in accordance


﻿- 11 -
with the procedures set forth in Part A.3 of this Schedule and
Part A of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 1.2 and 3.9 there-
of).
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, ISERST shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, ISERST
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
ISERST and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension


﻿- 12 -
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of ex-
treme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, ISERST shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform ISERST and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


