Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2351 ETH
          (Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project)
                              between
                             ETHIOPIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 24, 1992
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2351 ETH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 24, 1992, between ETHIOPIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Associa-
tion).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower intends to carry out an emergency
recovery and reconstruction programme as it initiates a longer-term
effort to reduce poverty and achieve sustainable growth through
structural economic reform;
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      (C)   the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "EELPA" means the Ethiopian Electric Light and Power
Authority, a body corporate established under the laws of the
Borrower;
      (b)   "ETA" means the Ethiopian Telecommunications Authority,
a body corporate established under the laws of the Borrower;
      (c)   "ERA" means the Ethiopian Roads Authority, a body
corporate established under the laws of the Borrower;
      (d)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 17, 1989, and
December 5, 1989, between the Borrower and the Association;
      (e)   "Special Account" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (f)   "ONCCP" means the Office of the National Commission for
Central Planning.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
and four million, nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 104,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts (the
Import Special Account and the Social Fund Special Account) in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1995, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  3
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commenc-
ing July 15, 2002, and ending January 15, 2032. Each installment to
and including the installment payable on January 15, 2012, shall be
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  4
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend, out of the proceeds of the
Credit:
            (i)    an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR
                   2,100,000 to EELPA under a subsidiary loan
                   agreement to be entered into between the Borrow-
                   er and EELPA, under terms and conditions which
                   shall have been approved by the Association and
                   which shall include interest rate of seven and
                   three quarters percent (7.75%) per annum, repay-
                   ment over 20 years including five years of grace
                   and the foreign exchange risk to be borne by
                   EELPA; and
            (ii)   an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR
                   2,800,000 to ETA under a subsidiary loan agree-
                   ment to be entered into between the Borrower and
                   ETA, under terms and conditions which shall have
                   been approved by the Association and which shall
                   include interest rate of seven and three quar-
                   ters percent (7.75%) per annum, repayment over
                   20 years including five years of grace and the
                   foreign exchange risk to be borne by ETA.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, until comple-
tion of the Project, the cabinet-level Steering Committee chaired by
the Prime Minister  which shall be responsible for the general
oversight of the Project. The Steering Committee shall include the
Minister of Finance, the Minister responsible for the Commission for
Foreign Economic Relations, the Minister of ONCCP and the Governor
of the National Bank of Ethiopia.
      (b)   The Steering Committee shall meet regularly to discuss
the progress of the Project and to make policy decisions on the
implementation of the Project as needed.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, until com-
pletion of the Project, the Project Monitoring Unit (PMU). The PMU
shall include, as members, a unit manager, one representative from
the private sector, nine representatives from the public sector, the
manager of the Social Rehabilitation Fund, a port and shipping
advisor, and an inland transport advisor.
      (b)   The PMU shall be responsible for: (i) monitoring the
implementation of the Project; (ii) advising implementing ministries
and agencies on Project issues; (iii) informing the Steering
Committee on the progress of the Project; and (iv) preparing
quarterly progress reports referred to in Section 3.05 (a) of this
Agreement.
      Section 3.05. Without limitation to or restriction upon its
other reporting requirements under the General Conditions and this
Agreement the Borrower shall, with effect from the quarter ending
June 30, 1992:
      (a)   submit, quarterly, to the Association for review,
progress reports on the implementation of the Project. Said progress
Page  5
reports shall cover, inter alia, (i) status of disbursements and
procurement, (ii) volume of imports, their clearance through the
ports and transportation to Addis Ababa and other centers, (iii)
effectiveness of internal distribution of goods to beneficiaries,
(iv) status of reconstruction activities, (v) generation and use of
counterpart funds, and (vi) any Project implementation policy issues
and proposed solutions;
      (b)   cause the Social Rehabilitation Fund Management Unit to
submit, quarterly, to the Association for review, progress reports
on the implementation of Part E of the Project. Said progress
reports shall cover, inter alia, (i) the sub-projects approved for
financing, and (ii) problems and proposed solutions associated with
implementation of the Social Rehabilitation Fund activities.
      Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation or restriction to the
provision of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower
and the Association agree to undertake not later than November 30,
1992, a review of the progress of the Project, based on performance
indicators satisfactory to the Association and pursuant to the
provisions of this Agreement; and
      (b)   the Borrower shall promptly undertake or cause PMU to
promptly undertake such modifications in the execution of the
Project as shall be necessary, in the Association's opinion, as a
result of the review referred to in paragraph (a) above, for the
achievement of the objectives of the Project.
      Section 3.07. (a) For the purpose of implementation of Part E
of the Project, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   establish and maintain, under arrangements
                   satisfactory to the Association, a Social Reha-
                   bilitation Fund for the purpose of financing
                   community-based social and economic sub-pro-
                   jects. The Borrower shall operate the Social
                   Rehabili-tation Fund in accordance with proce-
                   dures, terms and conditions and eligibility
                   criteria satis- factory to the Association; and
           (ii)    maintain the Social Rehabilitation Fund Manage-
                   ment Unit under PMU to administer the operation
                   of the Social Rehabilitation Fund. The full-time
                   head of the Social Rehabilitation Fund Manage-
                   ment Unit shall have qualifications and experi-
                   ence satisfactory to the Association.
      (b)   The Social Rehabilitation Fund Management Unit shall be
responsible for reviewing and approving sub-projects to be financed
under the Social Rehabilitation Fund under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall deposit an amount equivalent
to Birr 20.7 million into the Social Rehabilitation Fund to be used
for financing sub-projects under Part E of the Project.
      Section 3.09. After a review of the transportation capacity by
the Association, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures,
including the hiring of an international transport firm, to ensure
that goods financed under the Credit are transported efficiently
from the ports to the distribution centers inland.
      Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, not later than May 31, 1992:
      (a)   issue directives allowing the Commercial Bank of
Ethiopia to participate in providing credit for the purchase of
fertilizers; and
      (b)   issue directives permitting the private retailing of
fertilizer.
      Section 3.11. The Borrower shall implement measures satisfac-
Page  6
tory to the Association to ensure that building materials, tyres and
spare parts for buses financed under the credit costing the
equivalent of $11,000,000 are sold to the end users in the private
sector.
      Section 3.12. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1992, eliminate all road freight tariff regulations.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than six months
                   after the end of each such year, a certified
                   copy of the report of such audit by said audi-
                   tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records, accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                   to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
                   ciation has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, or-
                   ders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
                   ments) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
Page  7
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has established the Project Monitoring Unit
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
      (b)   the Borrower has implemented measures, satisfactory to
the Association, for:
            (i)    facilitating the transportation inland by road
                   transport of cargo imported to Ethiopia through
                   the Port of Djibouti;
           (ii)    permitting the licensing of private domestic and
                   foreign freight forwarding and clearing agents
                   to operate in Ethiopia and to facilitate their
                   access to facilities at the Port of Assab; and
          (iii)    allowing public sector companies and agencies to
                   employ freight forwarding and clearing agents of
                   their choice.
      Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Finance
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 1905
            Addis Ababa
            Ethiopia
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MINFIN                    21147
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  8
                         ETHIOPIA
                         By /s/ Berhani Gebre-Christos
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and             4,602,000        100% of foreign
     Materials under Part                       expenditures
     A.1 of the Project
(2)  Equipment and            26,295,000        100% of foreign
     Materials under                            expenditures
     Part A.2 of the
     Project
(3)  Equipment and             5,916,000        100% of foreign
     Materials under                            expenditures
     Part A.3 of the
     Project
(4)  Equipment and             1,972,000        100% of foreign
     Materials under                            expenditures
     Part A.4 of the
     Project
(5)  Equipment and             2,630,000        100% of foreign
     Materials under                            expenditures
     Part A.5 of the
     Project
(6)  Equipment and            16,369,000        100% of foreign
     Materials under                            expenditures
     Part A.6 of the
     Project
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7)  Petroleum                13,147,000        100% of foreign
     Products                                   expenditures
(8)  Civil Works under        13,345,000        80%
     Part B of the
     Project
Page  9
(9)  Transportation            7,888,000        100%
     under Part C of the
     Project
(10) Consultant's              2,761,000        100%
     Services under Part
     D of the Project
(11) Goods and services        3,287,000        100% of foreign
     for sub-projects                           expenditures and
     under the Social                           30% of local
     Rehabilitation                             expenditures
     Fund
(12) Refunding of                420,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Pre-                               suant to Section
     paration Advance                           2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(13) Unallocated               6,268,000
                             ___________
         TOTAL               104,900,000
                             ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b)   payment made for expenditures under Category (11) unless
the Borrower has submitted to the Association evidence satisfactory
to the Association that (i) the Social Rehabilitation Fund has been
established pursuant to Section 3.07 of this Agreement, (ii) the
Borrower has deposited Birr 20.7 million into the Social Rehabili-
tation Fund as provided in Section 3.08 of this Agreement, and
(iii) the Borrower has submitted to the Association terms and
conditions and eligibility criteria satisfactory to the Association
for financing sub-projects under the Social Rehabilitation Fund; and
      (c)   payments made for expenditures under Categories (4) and
(5) unless the Borrower has concluded Subsidiary Loan Agreements,
satisfactory to the Association with EELPA and ETA, respectively,
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
                          SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
rehabilitating, reconstructing, maintaining and operating priority
sectors of its economy damaged by civil war.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Importation of Goods Specified in Schedule 4 to this
            Agreement for:
Page  10
1.    The Construction Sector
2.    The Industrial Sector
3.    The Transport Sector
4.    The Power Sector
5.    The Telecommunications Sector
6.    The Road Sector
7.    Petroleum Products
Part B:     Civil Works
1.    Resurfacing and regravelling of roads.
2.    Rehabilitation of road maintenance equipment.
Part C:     Transportation of Goods
      Transportation of goods from the ports to distribution
centers.
Part D:     Consultants' Services
1.    Preparation of designs and specifications for rehabilitation
of roads.
2.    Strengthening the capacity of the Ethiopian Road Authority to
carry out and supervise road rehabilitation activities.
Part E:    Social Rehabilitation Fund
      Financing community-based social and economic activities on a
pilot basis principally in Shoa, Addis Ababa and Tigray, and the
acquisition of office equipment and vehicles.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1994.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
      "2.8  Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid in
      at least one of the following forms:
            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Business; or
           (ii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods re-
                  quired; or
          (iii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide technical circulation."
Page  11
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."
2.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds
of the Special Account, such copies together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Agreement.
3.    Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by
a third party inspection firm.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ethiopia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Raw materials for the public sector estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $35,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids obtained from a list of
potential suppliers eligible under the Guidelines broad enough to
ensure competition and in accordance with procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9,
2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.    Goods and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $15,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at
least three suppliers from at least two different countries eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items for the Social Rehabilitation Fund
estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Civil works under the Social Rehabilitation Fund estimated to
cost up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$1,500,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
Page  12
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
5.    Other specialized and proprietary items for Part A of the
Project, estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $14,000,000, may be purchased directly under
negotiated contracts with original suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for raw materials, goods
and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
              List of Eligible Imports to be Financed
                         under the Credit
Petroleum products
Electrical generating, distribution and instrumentation equipment
Telecommunications equipment
Vehicles
Road maintenance equipment and materials
Fire fighting equipment
Radio communications equipment
Spares for food processing machinery
Spares for sugar machinery and sugar plantations
Spares for beverage making industry
Page  13
Spares for textile machinery
Spares for leather and leather products industry
Spares for cement industry
Spares for printing machinery
Spares for chemical processing industry
Spares for metal working and engineering industry
Spares for electrical generating and distributing equipment
Spares for telecommunications equipment
Spares for civil aviation control and lighting equipment
Spares and tires for buses
Corrugated metal sheeting
Glazing and glazing materials
Nails, screws and fixings
Black sheet
Door and window fittings
LTZ profiles
Electrical wires, fuses and electrical domestic protective
      equipment
Lamps and lamp fittings
Electrical meters
Water meters
Sanitary ware
Pipes and fittings
Lint cotton, polyester yarn, acrylic fibre, nylon yarn
Wool waste
Jute and Kenaf
Dyestuffs and chemicals
Chrome and chemicals
Natural, thermoplastic and synthetic rubbers
Fatty acids and other soap making agents
Cold and hot rolled steel sheets
Zinc, Galvanized iron sheets
Steel coils
Pig iron, steel billets, and bars
Paper pulp
Plasticol and can materials
Packing materials
Resins, PVC, polythene
Polyethylene, polyurethane, and Chemicals
Footwear outers, linings and bergamode
Aluminum sheets, electrodes, lockers, handles
Bolts and nuts and fasteners
Printing ink, printing chemicals, paper, printing plates
Canvas, elastic lace, elastic yarn
Soya Flour and Milk Powder
Vitamins
Yeast and Sodium Bicarbonate
Food flavoring and preservatives
                           SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) for the Imports Special Account and Category (11) for
the Social Fund Special Account set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $15,000,000 for the Imports Special Account and
$750,000 for the Social Fund Special Account to be withdrawn from
the Credit Account and deposited into the respective Special
Page  14
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the respective Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special
Accounts such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have re-
quested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the respective Special
                  Accounts, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                  Association requests for deposits into the Spe-
                  cial Accounts at such intervals as the Associa-
                  tion shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the respective Special Accounts such amounts as
                  the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                  have been shown by said documents and other
                  evidence to have been paid out of the respective
                  Special Accounts for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective
Special Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Accounts:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Cate-
gories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
Page  15
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the respective Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into
the respective Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Accounts.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6(a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
