Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
DANISH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2351 ET
Danish Grant Agreement
(Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Credit)
between
ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
Provided by the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK
Dated July 30, 1993
DANISH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2351 ET
DANISH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1993, between ETHIOPIA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, as Administrator (the Administrator) of Grant 
Funds Provided by the GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK (the Government).
WHEREAS: (A) the Recipient has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association (the Association) and the Government in the financing of its 
Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Credit (the Program) referred to in the Preamble 
to Development Credit Agreement Number 2351-ET, dated April 24, 1992, between the 
Recipient and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement);
(B)
the Association has granted a Credit for this purpose on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
(C)
the Government wishes to make available to the Recipient a grant of nine 
million Danish Kroner (DKr 9,000,000), (the Danish Grant) to assist the Recipient in 
financing part of the Program on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
(D)
pursuant to an Agreement dated July 30, between the Government and the 
Association (the Administration Agreement), the Government appointed the Association 
as Administrator of the Danish Grant funds for the purpose of providing assistance to 
the Recipient;
(E)
the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Recipient under the Agreement, shall be considered as part of the bilateral 
development aid extended by the Government to the Recipient;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association, acting as Administrator of the Danish 
Grant, pursuant to the arrangements between the Government and the Association 
referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement, except in the phrase "member of the 
Association" in Section 2.01 (5) and Section 6.02 (e);
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Danish Grant extended to the Recipient under this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, shall 
be amended to read "Danish Grant Account";
(e)
Section 2.01 shall be modified to read:
"Section 2.01. 'Project' means the import and other activities that may 
be financed out of the proceeds of the  Danish Grant pursuant to the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement."
(f)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Section 4.01. Withdrawals from the Danish Grant Account shall be made 
in dollars; provided, however, that, if the expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Danish Grant have been paid or are payable in another 
currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient and at the 
time 
of a withdrawal from the Danish Grant Account, purchase such currency 
with 
the proceeds of such withdrawals."
(g)
in Sections 6.02 and 7.01 the term "Association" shall also include the 
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(h)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date, as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Grant Agreement, the performance by the Recipient and the 
Administrator of their respective obligations under the Development Grant 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Danish Grant.";
(i)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 
7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted.
(j)
the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Recipient.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the term the Danish Special Account means the Special Account referred 
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
Page  3
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant of nine million Danish Kroner 
(DKr. 9,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Danish Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Danish Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Category (2) of Schedule 1 
to the Development Credit Agreement as it may be amended from time to time by 
agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Program, open and maintain 
in dollars a special account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits into and payments out of the Danish 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, contracts 
for goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Danish Grant shall be procured, in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, 
which is hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if 
it were fully set forth herein. The references to the Association in said Schedule 
shall be deemed to be references to the Association acting as Administrator of the 
Danish Grant.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the 
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in paragraph (a) above, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way restricting or 
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under this Agreement, 
by notice to the Recipient, cancel such amount of the Danish Grant as, in the 
Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Danish 
Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles III and IV 
of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with 
the same force and effect as if it were fully set forth herein. All references to the 
"Association" in such Articles III and IV of the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be references to the Association as Administrator of the Danish Grant under 
this Agreement. All references to the Credit and the Credit Account shall be deemed to 
be references to the Danish Grant and the Danish Grant Account, respectively, and all 
references to the Borrower shall be deemed to be references to the Recipient.
ARTICLE IV
Representation; Transfer of Rights
and Obligations
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient shall be the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN
21147
Page  4
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Section 4.03. In accordance with the agreement referred to in the Preamble to 
this Agreement, the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement 
may be transferred to the Government. The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon 
notice by the Administrator to the Recipient to that effect, the Government shall, 
ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as if the Government had been an 
original party to this Agreement, without any further action or formality required on 
the part of any party, and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have any 
rights or obligations as a party under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness and Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature.
Section 5.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Danish Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Berhane Gebre-Christos
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   as Administrator of Grant Funds
   Provided by the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE
Danish Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of the Program and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Danish Grant; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $1,500,000 to be 
Page  5
withdrawn from the Danish Grant Account and deposited into the Danish Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Danish 
Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with 
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Danish 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Danish Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administration shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Danish Grant Account and deposit into the Danish Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Danish Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Danish Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator 
shall specify.
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Danish Grant Account and deposit 
into 
the Danish Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other 
evidence to have been made out of the Danish Special Account 
for 
Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the 
Administrator from the Danish Grant Account in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Danish Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Danish Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Danish Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Danish Grant less the amount of 
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Program, shall equal the 
equivalent of the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Danish Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Danish Grant shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and, to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Danish Special Account as of the date of such 
notice, will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Danish Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
     (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
Page  6
request; or (B) deposit into the Danish Special Account (or, if 
the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator 
into the Danish Special Account shall be made until the Recipient 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case 
may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Danish Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, and with the 
Administrator's consent, refund to the Administrator all or any portion of the funds 
on deposit in the Danish Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Danish Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
