Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CIDA GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2351 ET
Development Grant Agreement
(Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project)
between
ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
Provided by the
CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
Dated December 29, 1993
CIDA GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2351 ET
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 29, 1993, between ETHIOPIA (the Recipient) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, as Administrator (the Administrator) of Grant 
Funds Provided by the CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (CIDA).
WHEREAS: (A) the Recipient has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association (the Association) and CIDA in the financing of its Emergency 
Recovery and Reconstruction Program (the Program), referred to in the Preamble to 
Development Credit Agreement Number 2351-ET, dated April 24, 1992, between the 
Recipient and the Association (the IDA Development Credit Agreement);
(B)
the Association has granted a Credit for this purpose on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
(C)
CIDA wishes to make available to the Recipient a grant in an amount of 
four million nine hundred thousand Canadian Dollars (Can$4,900,000) (the CIDA Grant) 
to assist the Recipient in carrying out part of the Program on the terms and 
conditions hereinafter set forth;
(D)
pursuant to an agreement, dated August 17, 1993 and September 1, 1993, 
between CIDA and the Association, (the Contribution Agreement) CIDA has requested the 
Association, and the Association has agreed, to administer the CIDA Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of the Contribution Agreement; and
Page  2
(E)
the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Recipient under this CIDA Grant Agreement shall be considered as part of the bilateral 
development aid extended by CIDA to the Recipient;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definition
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the 
"General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements", dated January 1, 
1985 (the General Conditions), with the same force and effect as if they were fully 
set forth herein subject, however, to the following modifications thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association, acting as Administrator of the CIDA Grant, 
pursuant to the the Contribution Agreement between CIDA and the Association referred 
to in the Preamble to this Agreement, except in the phrase "member of the Association" 
in Section 2.01 (5) and Section 6.02 (e);
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Development Grant Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
CIDA Grant extended to the Recipient under this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General Conditions or in 
this Agreement, means the account opened by the Administrator in its books in the name 
of the Recipient to which the amount of the CIDA Grant is credited;
(e)
Section 2.01 shall be modified to read:
"Section 2.01. 'Project' means the expenditures for the Ethiopia 
Social Rehabilitation Fund (ESRF) that may be financed out of the 
proceeds of the CIDA Grant as provided in Section 2.02 (a) of the CIDA 
Grant Agreement.";
(f)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
     "Section 4.01. Withdrawals from the CIDA Grant Account shall be 
made in Canadian dollars.";
(g)
in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall also include the 
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(h)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and 
the Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the 
Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program 
referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Recipient and the Administrator of their respective 
obligations under the Development Grant Agreement, and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the CIDA Grant.";
(i)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, 6.05, 
7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted; and
(j)
the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Recipient.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the IDA Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth, and the term "CIDA Special Account" means the Special Account 
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Grant
Section 2.01. (a) The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to herein, a grant in an amount of up to 
four million nine hundred thousand Canadian dollars (Can$4,900,000).
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement, the Administrator shall be relieved from its obligations set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement to make any payment to the Recipient to the extent that 
any amount of the Contribution is not received from Canada as a result of 
non-appropriation by the Parliament of Canada for the fiscal year in which the payment 
of any such amount is to be made.
(c)
Promptly after deposit of the Contribution, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the T-Account and pay to itself the amount of 
the Contribution allocated to Category (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the CIDA Grant may be withdrawn from the CIDA 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to 
finance expenditures for goods and services under the Ethiopia Social Rehabilitation 
Fund.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in Canadian dollars a special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into and payments out of the CIDA Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, goods and 
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the CIDA Grant shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the IDA Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree Articles III and 
IV of the IDA Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the 
same force and effect as if the provisions of those Sections were fully set forth 
herein. All references to the Association in Articles III and IV of the IDA Credit 
Agreement shall be deemed to be references to the Administrator of the CIDA Grant 
under this Agreement. All references to the "Development Credit Agreement" shall be 
deemed to be references to this Development Grant Agreement, and all references to the 
"Credit" shall be deemed to be references to the CIDA Grant.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Representation
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Recipient hereunder 
shall terminate on the date on which the IDA Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. The representative designated in Section 6.01 of the IDA Credit 
Agreement shall be the representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.04. The addresses specified in Section 6.02 of the IDA Credit 
Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 4.05. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the IDA Credit 
Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Contribution Agreement, the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to CIDA. The 
Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice to that effect by the Administrator to 
the Recipient, CIDA shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice, be 
substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as 
if CIDA had been an original party to this Agreement without any further action or 
formality being required on the part of any party and, from such date, the 
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this 
Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Berhane Gebre-Christof
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as Administrator of Grant Funds
  Provided by the
CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
By /s/ Edwin Lim
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Contribution
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Contribution Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Can $ Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods and
   4,514,000
100%
services for
Sub-projects
under the
ESRF
(2)
Goods and
     288,000
100%
services for
the ESRF
Management
Unit
(3)
Administration
98,000 Amount due pur-
fee
suant to Section
2.01 (c) of this
Agreement
Page  5
TOTAL
   4,900,000
SCHEDULE 2
CIDA Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project which are to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the CIDA Grant; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of CAN$500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the CIDA Grant Account and deposited into the CIDA Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments out of the CIDA 
Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with 
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received satisfactory evidence that the CIDA Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the CIDA Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Recipient for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the CIDA Grant Account 
and deposit into the CIDA Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator requests for 
replenishment of the CIDA Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify. On the basis of such requests, the Administrator shall withdraw from the CIDA 
Grant Account and deposit into the CIDA Special Account such amounts as shall be 
required to replenish the CIDA Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount 
of payments made out of the CIDA Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the CIDA Grant Account as 
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposits furnished pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the CIDA Special Account for which 
the Recipient requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
showing that such payments were made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the CIDA Special Account shall be made by the Administrator when 
either of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the CIDA 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
     (ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the CIDA Grant, minus the amount 
of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator, pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, 
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the CIDA Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the CIDA Grant shall follow such procedures as the Administrator 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the CIDA Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the CIDA Special Account:
Page  6
      (i)
was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
     (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 
4 of this Schedule, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator, deposit into the CIDA Special Account (or, if 
the Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Administrator into the CIDA Special Account shall be made until 
the Recipient has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the CIDA Special Account will not be required to cover further payments 
for Eligible Expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting to 
the CIDA Grant Account.
