Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               Ft L E   CO  P Y
Report No. 2515a-SE
SENEGAL
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 26, 1980
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00          =  CFAF 210
CFAF 1 million  =  US$4,762
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                        US Equivalents
1 meter (m)               =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =  2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEBTP     -      Centre Experimental de Recherches et d'Etudes du Batiment et
des Travaux Publics
CEREEQ    -      Centre Experimental de Recherches et d'Etudes pour l'Equipement
GDOT      -      General Directorate of Transport
DER       -      Maintenance Division
DRC       -      Directorate of Road Construction
DRME      -      Directorate of Road Maintenance and Equipment
DSP       -      Directorate of Studies and Programming
FED       -      European Development Fund
GDPW      -      General Directorate of Public Works
GNP       -      Gross National Product
ME        -      Ministry of Equipment
MOF       -      Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
MOP       -      Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
OECF      -      Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
ONCAD     -      Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement
ORT       -      Organization for Rehabilitation through Training (Switzerland)
PCM       -      Central Equipment Division
UNDP      -      United Nations Development Program
vpd       -      vehicles per day
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paxe No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR                ......
A.  The Land and the Economy  ....*......*                 ...................       1
B.  The Transport System  .......  *..........................                       2
C.   Transport Policy, Sector Management and Investments  .*..                       3
D.   Bank Assistance to the Transport Sector                     ................    4
II.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR             ...................*..     ............             6
A.   The Network              ............................................           6
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic                    .............     7
C.  The Road Transport Industry                     ............................     8
D.  Road Maintenance .o.o. ....... .... . . .. . .  ......  ...   . . ....... .. . *  9
E.  Administration ....9. ... . .. .. .  * ..*. ..  * .. . ..  .... .... .0.  .. .  10
F.   Staffing and Training  . ....... ............ .... .          ...........      11
G.   Investment and Financing  ...... ooo.. o.......         ............           11
H.  Engineering and Construction  ...........................                       13
III. THE PROJECT .......*... ..  ......... . . . ... ...  .......  ..*.. ... . ... ..*.   14
A.  Project Objectives  ..* ..... . o. oo........                                   14
B.   Project Description   ... ...................    ..........                    14
C.   Project Cost and Financing  ............                 .................     19
D.   Implementation  ...... . .... . .. . .  ............. *......   *- ...-        21
E.   Procurement  ..............       ...*..o.. .. ... .. . .......- ..- ...       23
F.   Disbursements  ......... . ..  ......... ......4.0.0 ... ...  ......           24
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ...............               ........................         25
<          ~~~A.  General ..o.......... ....... ...           00...........    00... O...............  25
B.   Maintenance Program  ....o .....*...oo ....................                    26
C.   Road Strengthening and Rehabilitation  .               ................        27
D.   Construction of the Louga-Dahra Road  ....... o.o..o....o.                     29
V.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ..... . ... .....o....... .  .......... oo    . .....o......  .-.  31
This report was prepared by Pierre Sooh (Highway Engineer), Peter Parker
(Economist), and Frida Johansen (Economist) on the basis of an appraisal
mission in November-December 1978. It was edited by Charles W. Applegate.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.  Annual Highway Expenditures, FY1971-79
2.  Road Design Standards
3.   Equipment to be Procured
4.  Technical Assistance for the Training Program
- Outline Terms of Reference
5.   Consultants Services for Technical Assistance to the DRME Maintenance
Program -  Outline Terms of Reference
6.   Study for Design of Pavement Maintenance and Strengthening Programs
- Outline Terms of Reference
7.  Description of Paved Roads to be Strengthened and Rehabilitated
8.   Project Costs
9.   Highlights of the Economic Evaluation of Strengthening Paved Roads
10. Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHART - Organization of the Ministry of Equipment
MAP   -  IBRD 11900R1



SENEGAL
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. The Transport Sector
A.   The Land and the Economy
1.01      Senegal is a small (196,000 km2) coastal country located at the
extreme west of the Sahelian zone of Africa. It has only limited natural re-
sources. Soils are generally poor, and droughts cause periodic crop failures
and severe food shortages. The large river basins have been only marginally
exploited to date. Population is about 5 million and is growing at about 2.7%
p.a. About 70% of the inhabitants derive their livelihood from agriculture,
mostly small scale rainfed farming. Farming is concentrated in the Cap Vert
peninsula and the surrounding "groundnut basin". The modern sector of the
economy is concentrated in Dakar, the national capital and former capital of
French West Africa, where industrial activity is growing.
1.02      Agriculture contributes about 35% of gross domestic product (GDP);
groundnuts alone account for about 20% and sometimes more than half the value
of exports. Fluctuations in rainfall and world prices, therefore, have a
considerable impact on the Senegalese economy. Phosphate mining, the second
most important economic activity, is equally subject to wide price fluctua-
tions which further aggravate economic instability. Industries, mainly import
substituting, are being developed in Dakar under Government protection and
participation. During the 1970s, public and private investment increased from
10 to 15% of gross national product (GNP). Per capita GNP was estimated at
US$420 in 1977, but average income in Dakar is roughly five times as high as
in the countryside despite recent producer price increases.
1.03      Senegal's prospects for rapid economic development are limited,
given the few available natural resources and the country's dependence on
exports.  The Government's long-range development strategy remains based
on promotion of agriculture and export-oriented activities, with a view to
reducing the impact of uncertain weather and prices. The agricultural program
calls for development of areas less affected by rainfall fluctuations where
cash crops other than groundnuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production
is  being developed in the arid northern p-rt of the country along the Senegal
River.  The Government also aims at a mcdi 3t expansion of phosphate mining
and development of light export industries and tourism. However, many of the
areas suitable for rainfed agriculture are already being exploited, and insti-
tutional and, to a lesser extent, marketing constraints will limit the rate of
development of irrigation-based agriculture. Further, given the Government's
limited financial capability and the risks it will have to assume, only a
cautious view of the rate of future economic development is warranted.



-2-
B.   The Transport System
1.04      Senegal's transport system is quite extensive, consisting of a
1,034 km railway network; a 13,740 km road network, including 2,800 km of
paved and 5,550 km of all-weather roads; a deep-water protected port at Dakar
(the only one with such characteristics in the Sahel zone) plus three secondary
ports; and an international airport at Dakar and several smaller domestic
airports. All modes perform an important international function, supporting
Senegal's role as a regional center and transit country. Apart from The
Gambia (see Map), there are no major barriers to the development of transport
within Senegal.
1.05      The railway comprises about 660 km of mainline between Dakar and
the Mali border, forming part of the international line linking Dakar with
Bamako (Mali), and 374 km of branch lines. The railway has traditionally
been the dominant carrier of domestic freight but has lost its position
over the past decade due to deteriorating service and efficiency. Rail
passenger traffic also declined substantially following the expansion of
the road network and the vehicle fleet, particularly for short-haul traffic.
The railway has recently started to regain freight traffic as a result of
strong managerial action, and the technical assistance and training program
implemented under the Third Railway Project (Loan 1518-SE, US$11 million,
1978). In FY1978 the railway carried about 1.7 million tons of freight, the
bulk of which was shorthaul phosphates from the mine to the Dakar port, and
Mali transit traffic.
1.06      The road network is generally well-developed relative to the size
and growth of the national economy. It is concentrated in the more heavily
populated coastal regions and groundnut-producing areas with a number of main
roads running parallel to the railway. The highway subsector is discussed in
Chapter 2.
1.07      Senegal's port and waterway system consists of major port facili-
ties at Dakar, supplemented by secondary ports at St. Louis, Kaolack and
Ziguinchor. Cargo through Dakar port doubled in the last decade and now
totals about 6 million tons p.a. The most important traffic includes petro-
leum (for the national refinery, the port's bunkering services and aircraft
refueling), international traffic for Mali and Mauritania, and phosphates.
Traffic through the secondary ports, generally domestic, has been declining
due to increased competition from road transport. The Bank's Dakar Fishing
Port Project (Cr. 1405-T-SE, US$6 million, 1977) is directed at developing the
domestic fishing industry by financing facilities and technical assistance
for the port of Dakar.
1.08      Dakar airport serves as a strategic stopover on routes between
Europe and South America, and between New York and West and East Africa.
Dakar airport plus secondary airports constitute a basically adequate infra-
structure. The Bank is assisting the development of the Dakar airport and two
secondary airports as part of the Second Aviation Project (Ln. 1665-SE, US$7
million, 1979).



- 3 -
C.   Transport Policy, Sector Management and Investments
1.09      Prior to independence in 1960, Senegal's transport system was
designed primarily to carry the significant volume of import/export traffic
exchanged between France and all of French West Africa. Comprehensive port
facilities were developed at Dakar, and the railway was constructed to provide
access to the interior and to Mali and Mauritania. Following independence,
Senegal emphasized the development of its road network, primarily paved roads
radiating from Dakar, to support the growth of groundnut exports and to rein-
force Dakar's role as the capital city. Recently, the Government slightly
reduced transport's share of the development program and now places more
emphasis on (i) secondary and feeder roads in support of agriculture, mining,
industry and tourism projects and (ii) opening peripheral regions and provid-
ing more interregional links. The existing infrastructure, which has been
largely neglected, still needs to be properly maintained and fully used.
1.10      Senegal's development policy is translated into five-year plans.
In principle, the investment plan is based on proposals from the technical
ministries and is reviewed by interministerial committees and the Ministry
of Planning within financial guidelines specified by the Ministry of Finance.
In practice, however, there are insufficient basic planning data and too few
trained personnel, and a coordinated transport policy is still lacking. To
overcome these constraints, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
provided a team of experts, including a transport specialist, who helped
prepare the Fourth and Fifth Development Plans, and the Ministry of Equipment
subsequently created a Directorate of Studies and Programming (DSP), which is
supported with technical assistance financed under the Third Highway Project.
The technical ministries are only now becoming more involved in the technical
and economic feasibility analyses of proposed projects.
1.11      During the Fourth Plan, Senegal spent about 15% of public invest-
ments (CFAF 31 billion) in the transport sector, and two-thirds of that in
the highway subsector. CFAF 38 billion has already been spent on transport
under the Fifth Plan (FYs1978-81) of which CFAF 21 billion has been for roads.
Investment in the transport sector in FYs1978-81 is expected to amount to
CFAF 59 billion, a 20% increase in real terms. Given the present economic
difficulties, the Government has stated its intention to slow down investment
and to concentrate on completing ongoing works in the sector. Past and planned
investments are as follows:



Actual and Planned Investments in the Transport Sector, FYs1965-81
(CFAF billion)
Actual                    Planned
Fiscal Years                     1965-69        1970-73        1974-77      1978-81
Roads                              4.4            n.a.           20.0         39.6
Rail                               2.8            4.2             4.3           5.2
Ports and Rivers                   1.6            n.a.            3.2         11.6
Aviation                           0.2            n.a.             3.5         3.0
Total                         9.0           14.1            31.0         59.4
Source:   Ministry of Planning
1.12      The proposed levels of transport investment are generally reasonable
at this stage of development, given the country's priority need to support
the directly productive sectors, with the exception of investment in paved
roads (Chapter 2). Proposed investments in the railway represent a declining
proportion of the total but are needed to enable the railway to fulfill its
long-term economic role, under assumptions of reasonable efficiency, of pro-
viding the principal outlet for landlocked Mali, carrying phosphate traffic,
and of supporting Dakar's role as a regional center. Railway investment
mainly covers the purchase of rolling stock and training. Ongoing investments
in ports include the fishing ports at Dakar and Saint Louis and dredging the
Dakar and Sine Saloum canals. The Government has also proposed improving
two secondary fishing ports. Investments for air transport include strength-
ening the runway for international traffic and aprons at Dakar, buying equipment
for Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring airports, and buying additional aircraft for
the domestic airline. The Government is preparing a Comprehensive Transport
Plan with assistance provided under the Third Highway Project. The plan will
provide useful recommendations for the appropriate level and composition of
investments in the transport sector and will assist in the preparation of the
Sixth Five Year Plan.
D.   Bank Assistance to the Transport Sector
1.13      The Bank Group has been a major contributor to the development
of the transport sector. Over the past 12 years, the Bank Group has invested
US$89.7 million in the sector under 11 loans/credits (three railway, two port,
two aviation, one feeder road and three highway projects) plus feeder roads
under agricultural projects.
1.14      Execution of the first two railway projects, which were primarily
designed to rehabilitate the track and provide rolling stock, was hampered
by delays mainly stemming from misunderstanding of bidding procedures and lack
of experience in mechanized track-laying, and from changes in scope mostly
due to a shortage of local funds for spare parts. In addition, the railway's
operating performance was less than satisfactory due to a shortage of ade-
quately trained personnel. Despite this, the projects, together with parallel



- 5 -
projects for the connecting Mali railway, helped prevent a collapse of opera-
tions on the Mali-Senegal railway system. The ongoing Third Railway Project
is designed to improve operational performance through a technical assistance
effort and strong measures to strengthen management.
1.15      The First Dakar Port Project was designed to restore and expand
general cargo handling facilities and included important institutional objec-
tives. It was satisfactorily implemented. The ongoing Second Port Project is
designed to increase the fishing port's capacity and efficiency through civil
works and technical assistance; the project also provides for a study of the
development of container traffic and required port facilities. Project
implementation is satisfactory.
1.16      The First Aviation Project comprised extending the runway of Dakar's
international airport, enlarging aircraft parking aprons and related works
to make the airport suitable for large aircraft thus enabling Senegal to
maintain its position as a staging point for transatlantic flights. The
project was satisfactorily implemented. The recently approved Second Aviation
Project aims at maintaining the attractiveness of Dakar for international
air traffic through the strengthening of the main runway and taxiways and at
modernizing navigational equipment at Senegal's two busiest domestic airports,
Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring.
1.17      The First Highway Project (Cr. 198-SE, US$2.1 million, 1970) provided
for the construction of 78 km of feeder roads, the purchase of maintenance
equipment, consultant services and preinvestment studies. The project was
completed satisfactorily except that the economic return was lower than
expected due to the impact of successive droughts on agricultural production
and traffic. 1/
1.18      The Second Highway Project (Cr. 366-SE, US$8.0 million, 1973) pro-
vided for the strengthening of 34 km (reduced from 110 km) of paved roads;
a four-year program to improve highway maintenance, including organizational
improvements, workshop construction, training, and procurement of equipment
and spare parts; and consultant services and preinvestment studies. The
reduced pavement strengthening was completed satisfactorily. The Third High-
way Project (Ln. 1222-SE, US$15 million, 1976), a follow-up on the operations
under the Second, provides for the strengthening of an additional 199 km of
paved roads, technical assistance and consulting services to continue the
maintenance program and improve transport planning through DSP, preinvestment
studies, and a study of the domestic contracting industry. Implementation of
the strengthening program has been satisfactory. However, the execution of
the maintenance component is beset by difficulties as explained in para. 2.12.
The technical assistance to DSP was not well utilized at the beginning of the
project, but efforts are now concentrated on the execution of a comprehensive
transport study which is proceeding more satisfactorily. The studies financed
under the project have been satisfactorily completed. Since funds remained
under the Loan, it was agreed in early 1979 to finance further improvements to
regional workshops and to the training center in Dakar.
1/   See Project Performance Audit Report, Senegal First Highway Project,
September 20, 1977.



- 6 -
1.19      The Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1221-SE, US$6.6 million, 1976) pro-
vides for a three-year program for improvement and/or maintenance of 1,250 km
of feeder roads, technical assistance, and procurement of equipment and sup-
plies. Project implementation has been seriously hampered by lack of local
staffing and funding. However, the Government has recently given the project
high priority in support of its rural development policy and is taking appro-
priate steps to improve implementation.
1.20      The strategy for future investment in the transport sector is seen
as: (i) assuring the efficient operation, maintenance, and necessary rehabili-
tation of existing transport facilities; and (ii) making selective investments
in new capacity where justified on the basis of traffic demand or complementary
investments. The proposed project seeks to implement this strategy by assur-
ing that the road network is adequately maintained and rehabilitated when
required.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Network
2.01      Senegal has a relatively well developed road network compared
to other, larger African countries whose GNP's are about double Senegal's:
including roads under construction Senegal will have about 50% more paved
roads than Cameroon which has a comparable GNP, and about 10% more paved
roads than Ivory Coast or 70% more than Zaire.  The country's classified road
network totals about 13,740 km, including 2,840 km of paved roads and 5,550 km
of all-weather gravel and earth roads; the rest of the system (5,350 km) con-
sists of tracks.
2.02      While the paved network has grown by about 25% since 1972, the
length of the lower standard roads increased by 61% due in part to the re-
classification of the network. The development of the network is shown below:
1972       1974         1978
Paved roads                             2,256       2,586        2,836
Engineered gravel and earth roads         645         456          448
Other all-weather gravel
and earth roads                       1,640       2,794       5,108
Tracks                                  4,480       7,435       5.350
Total                           9,021      13,271      13,742
Source:   General Directorate of Public Works.



-7-
2.03      This rapid growth in the classified network has not been matched
by a corresponding increase in maintenance capability, either in terms of
personnel or finance. In addition, many roads built before independence in
1960 are nearing the end of their economic life. As a result, the condition
of the network has deteriorated significantly and only the new roads remain
in good condition. It is estimated that as many as half the paved roads are
showing such signs of deterioration as uneven surfaces, potholes, pavement
cracks, ravelled edges, and washed-away shoulders. A similar situation exists
on gravel and earth roads, which are passable during part of the year only.
In 1978, after a continuous dialogue with the Bank, the Government began
addressing the basic problems. Earlier, the Second and Third Highway Projects
provided for organizational improvements and maintenance programs, but their
implementation was only partly successful. The proposed project will assist
the Government in solving these problems and help to bring the road network up
to standard. These improvements are a prerequisite to achieving the country's
development objectives (para. 1.03).
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
2.04      Statistics on the vehicle fleet are collected by the Directorate
of Transport (DOT) of the Ministry of Equipment (ME). DOT registers new
vehicles, collects some information on withdrawals, and estimates the size
of the fleet. DOT estimated that the fleet totaled 80,488 at the end of 1977,
or about one for every 60 inhabitants. This is relatively high compared to
neighboring coastal countries: 1/80 in Ivory Coast and 1/180 in Nigeria.
The overall fleet, about two-thirds of which is passenger cars, has grown
at about 4% p.a. since 1970. The number of buses and heavy vehicles, however,
has increased almost twice as quickly, as well as having increased in size and
weight. The legal maximum axle load was recently increased from 10 to 13 tons.
2.05      The table below shows the growth and composition of the vehicle
fleet:
Estimated Vehicle Fleet, 1970-77
Passenger                         Special       Road
Year        Cars       Buses     Trucks      Vehicles   Tractors      Total
1970       38,235      3,407     17,481        688          532       60,343
1971       40,380      3,485     18,078        691          563       63,197
1972       42,734      3,716     18,821        715          593       66,579
1973       44,218      3,939     19,624        748          642       69,729
1975       47,493      4,168     12,115        827          722       74,325
1976       49,257      4,326     22,071        865          803       77,322
1977       50,875      5,622     22,145        992         854        80,488
Growth
Rate (X)      4.2       7.4          3.4       7.5          7.0           4.2
Source: General Directorate of Transport.



-8-
2.06      Traffic data is collected by the General Directorate of Public
Works. Traffic volumes are highest in the Cap Vert region, especially in and
around Dakar where they reach an average of 6,000 to 10,000 vehicles per day
(vpd). Outside this region, traffic decreases rapidly, averaging a maximum
of about 2,000 vpd on the main road between Dakar and Kaolack, about 150 km
to the east. Traffic on the remainder of the paved road network ranges from
about 50 vpd to about 1,000 vpd.
2.07      The increases observed in the fleet and the traffic flows are
broadly corroborated by fuel consumption statistics. Gasoline consumption
grew at about 7% p.a. since 1970 as shown in the following table:
Road Vehicle Fuel Consumption, 1970-77
(in thousands of cubic meters)
Growth Rate
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977           X
Gasoline      105    112    120    124    125    140        159    167        7
Diesel Fuel   28      35      40     51      88     90       99    112       22
Total         133    147    160    175    213    230        258    279       11
C.   The Road Transport Industry
2.08      The road transport industry comprises three major segments:  (i) a
modern, private sector, generally with significant foreign ownership; (ii) a
traditional private sector of owner-drivers and small firms; and (iii) vehicles
owned by public and semi-public agencies such as the Office National de
Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement (ONCAD), which is responsible
for most groundnut transport, partly through subcontracting arrangements.
The modern sector is made up of a few large firms, which have their own
maintenance and repair facilities and generally have new vehicles. They
carry the products of trading companies and modern businesses (petroleum,
logs, refrigerated products, etc.) at economic rates. Some trading companies
also have their own fleets. The traditional sector is made up of owner-
drivers or small firms carrying primarily groundnuts, foodstuffs, cattle and
small loads, generally in small, older trucks. Most of its income is earned
from the seasonal transport of groundnuts; off season, competition is fierce
for the decreased volume of traffic. Tariffs charged by the traditional
sector appear to be low but are sustained by frequently over-loading vehicles,
neglecting maintenance and insurance, and deferring vehicle replacement. This,
in turn, accentuates the differences between the modern and the traditional
sector and prevents small firms from gaining access to more lucrative modern
markets.
2.09      The regulation of the road transport industry is satisfactory under
the Directorate of Transport (DOT) which was created in part for this purpose
in 1963. The regulations have not inhibited the development of the industry,
as evidenced by the rapid growth of the vehicle fleet. The Government limited
entry into the trucking industry to Senegalese nationals in 1973, which
strengthened local control over the industry. Some road transport tariffs are



- 9 -
regulated and some are not. Groundnut tariffs, for example, are set by ONCAD
and vary widely according to type of road travelled. ONCAD's system ade-
quately reflects relative differences in vehicle operating cost, travel time,
and the need to use small vehicles on poor roads. Official tariffs tend to be
respected by the traditional trucking sector only when hauling for public and
semi-public agencies. Inter-urban bus and taxi fares are also regulated and
respected, as they are well known to the public.
*        2.10       Regulations limiting vehicle weights and dimensions are also satis-
factory, with the maximum axle load having recently been increased to 13 tons.
However, the regulations are not enforced. In a 1974 survey, from 30 to 40%
(according to the road) of all trucks checked were overloaded.  This was
particularly prevalent among phosphate trucks travelling from Taiba to Dakar
and for sugar transport between Richard Toll and Dakar, and has resulted in
considerable damage to these roads. Enforcement of axle-load regulations is
considered a sine qua non for the proposed project if investments are to last.
Although a vehicle scale was provided under the Second Highway Project, it is
still not operational. The Government has agreed to prepare an action program
by December 1980 and take effective steps to enforce axle load limits and
restrict the importation of vehicles to those that fall within the legal
weight and dimensions. The DSP with technical assistance provided under the
Third Highway Project, intends to investigate ways to assist and educate the
domestic trucking industry in traffic laws and safety, as part of a compre-
hensive transport plan. This issue is being actively pursued in connection
with the supervision of the Third Highway Project.
D.   Road Maintenance
2.11      Road maintenance is the main problem affecting the sector.  The
paved road network is showing signs of deteriorating or weakening on about
1,600 km. Depending on weather conditions, transport on some gravel and
earth roads is possible only during part of the year.
2.12      Efforts to improve road maintenance began under the First Highway
Project, when, in 1972, consultants Louis Berger International, Inc. (USA)
recommended establishing a centrally administered road maintenance system.
Under the Second and Third Highway Projects, equipment and technical assis-
tance were provided, and 233 km of paved roads were rehabilitated and
strengthened. These projects have significantly improved the road network.
The overall objective of achieving proper maintenance on the entire network,
however, has not yet been attained.  Equipment has been purchased, a cost
accounting system partly implemented, a road inventory completed, the regions
have prepared annual work programs, and some personnel have been trained and
are in place. Actual maintenance operations are not yet satisfactory, bri-
gades do not operate efficiently, performance budgeting data is generally not
evaluated, equipment repair is slow, and operating funds insufficient and
late. The main problems impeding proper maintenance can be summarized as:
(i) cumbersome organizational set-up, as discussed below; (ii) the shortage
of qualified road maintenance technicians; and (iii) the inadequate funds for
road maintenance.



- 10 -
2.13      To improve road maintenance operations, the Government is taking
four major steps: First, the road maintenance structure has been reorganized,
the purpose of which is to (a) make the regions responsible for maintenance,
(b) have contractors carry out periodic maintenance, (c) execute routine
maintenance by force account and (d) simplify procedures (para. 2.17).
Second, a permanent training program for road maintenance will re established
(para. 2.20). Third, road maintenance will be adequately financed from the
Road Fund (para. 2.26). Fourth, to protect past and future investments the
Government will be asked to tighten and strictly enforce its regulations on
axle-load limits (para. 2.10). The proposed project will assist the Govern-
ment in solving these problems by continuing efforts begun under previous
projects in conjunction with new measures to improve organization, training
and financing.
E.     Administration
2.14      The Ministry of Equipment's Public Works Department (DPW), which was
in charge of road construction and maintenance, became the General Directorate
of Public Works (GDPW) in March 1979. The organization of the former DPW was
one of the problems impeding road maintenance.
2.15      Before its reorganization, DPW carried out road maintenance through
a central Maintenance Division, an Equipment Division, two mobile regravelling
brigades, and eight regional divisions. The Maintenance Division was ineffec-
tive because it was not able to exercise control over the regions. The
Equipment Division operated independently and did not coordinate its work
with that of the Maintenance Division; in addition its equipment was poorly
maintained and was not delivered to the regions on time. The mobile brigades
did not execute the regional regravelling programs on schedule, and the
quality and quantity of their work was inadequate.
2.16      During supervision of the Second and Third Highway Projects, the
Bank and the Government discussed the best means to achieve effective road
maintenance. In 1978 they agreed on a new set up, the main features of which
are the following:
(a)  Road maintenance operations were to be decentralized--brigades,
personnel, equipment and workshops to be under the direct
authority of regional offices;
(b)  Regions were to concentrate on routine road maintenance, main-
tain and make minor repairs on its equipment and supervise
periodic maintenance works (regravelling and resurfacing)
which was to be done by contractors; and
(c)  The Maintenance and Equipment Divisions were to be merged into
a Directorate of Road Maintenance and Equipment (DRME) located
in Dakar. It was to monitor regional programs through a per-
formance accounting system and to provide logistical equipment
support to the regions by operating a central workshop for
major equipment repairs and overhauls and by setting up a
central depot for spare parts.



- 11 -
2.17      The Government has incorporated these ideas into the new organiza-
tion, GDPW. GDPW includes DRME, the Directorate of Study and Planning (DSP)
which previously reported directly to the Minister, a Directorate of Road
Construction (DRC), and eight regional divisions corresponding to the eight
administrative regions of the country (see organization chart).
F.   Staffing and Training
2.18      GDPW has about 1,300 employees among whom are 50 engineers ; 120
technicians; 670 mechanics, operators and drivers; 160 administrative em-
ployees; and 300 skilled and unskilled laborers. Most of the engineers and
technicians were trained in French professional schools and a few were trained
in Senegal's Ecole Polytechnique de Thies and Institut Universitaire de
Technologie de Dakar. Senegalese technical schools offer only basic training
with no specialized training in public works. A study by consultants Organi-
zation for Rehabilitation through Training (ORT), carried out in June 1978,
showed that out of 1,300 GDPW positions 880 required skills which are only
partially or not taught at all in Senegalese schools.
2.19      The ORT study further showed that, except for engineers and tech-
nicians, 80% of the employees are over 40 years old and that a third will
retire in five years when they reach 55. As a result of the Government's
policy to slow down the growth of the civil service work force, only about
15% of GDPW's employees was hired within the last 10 years. According to the
study, 55% of the technicians and 90% of the mechanics, operators and drivers
have an inadequate level of professional training and about 46% of the
employees excluding engineers and technicians, especially the younger ones,
are illiterate. It is estimated that in the next five years GDPW will need
to recruit and train 600 employees, including 5 engineers, 90 technicians,
465 mechanics, operators and drivers, 30 accountants and 10 storekeepers, and
retrain about 600 existing employees.
2.20      The shortage of trained manpower is one of the reasons why Senegal
lacks well-maintained roads. The Second and Third Highway Projects provided
for on-the-job training of mechanics and operators and training of cost
accountants; these projects also financed improvements to GDPW's training
center and the purchase of training equipment. The proposed project will
reinforce this effort and introduce training as a permanent institution
within GDPW. The training component will include the first three years of an
upgraded training program, run by a Senegalese manager assisted by consultants.
It is expected that at the end of the project, training will be carried on by
Senegalese.
G.   Investment and Financing
2.21      Senegal has invested substantially in the development of its road
network. The paved road network increased from 1,047 km in 1956 to 2,836 km
in 1978.  Contracts have been signed or projects are underway to increase it
by an additional 500 km in the next four years, all of which are prefinanced
at relatively high cost. All this road construction may not be economically
justified. The Government has stated its intention to de-emphasize new road



- 12 -
construction, which is in line with what the country can afford to invest
outside of the primary sectors. It is also consistent with the recently
adopted policy of fiscal restraint, including reducing commercial borrowing,
which was partly a result of discussions with the IMF and the Bank Group in
1978 and 1979.
2.22      Highway expenditures, exclusive of foreign financing, increased from
about CFAF 2.5 billion (US$11.9 million) in FY1971 to CFAF 4.0 billion
(US$19.0 million) in FY1979 (Annex 1).  Almost one-half of this has gone
toward new construction and the other half to maintenance and administration.
An additional CFAF 2.7 billion (US$12.9 million) in new construction was
financed annually from foreign borrowing during FYs1970-77; the Bank Group,
European Development Fund and the Arab Bank for Economic Developmint in Africa
were the principal donors.
2.23      Road maintenance is financed from the general budget, while new
construction is financed from external sources and/or from the Road Fund
(through the investment budget). Coming from the general budget, funds for
road maintenance (and administration) are subject to debate and cuts in the
legislature with the result that funds are less than needed and are not made
available until late in the maintenance season, delaying the maintenance
program. Funds for new construction, on the other hand, were not subject to
the same review process. The result has been that while maintenance funding
has been inadequate, there has been overinvestment in new paved roads.
2.24      The Road Fund, a special account established in 1953, is allocated
an earmarked portion of fuel taxes. The Road Fund is used for construction
both directly and for paying prefinancing by contractors. Because of the ease
of obtaining funds, road construction has commonly been prefinanced by con-
tractors in recent years. This practice has resulted in construction costs
that are about 30% higher than would have been the case under competitive
bidding. The debt service on prefinanced construction alone will average
CFAF 5.9 billion (US$28.1 million) p.a. during FYs 1980-82.
2.25      In addition to fuel taxes, road user taxes include vehicle entry
duties and miscellaneous fees. It is estimated that, at present, total road
user revenues are more than double the total amount spent on roads. Revenues
from import duties and miscellaneous fees were estimated by consultants
Berenchott-Bosboom to total CFAF 3.3 billion (US$14.8 million) in 1972, the
only year for which statistics are available. The Government collected
CFAF 13.1 billion (US$59.5 million) in fuel taxes in 1975, the most recent
year for which data are available, as shown below:
Revenue from Fuel Taxes, 1975
Tax Rate         Consumption          Revenues
(CFAF/litre)   (million litres)    (CFAF million)
Regular Gasoline            44                74.5                 3,278
Premium Gasoline            60              112.6                  6,756
Diesel Fuel                 29               107.9                 3,129
Total                                  295.0                 13,163



- 13 -
2.26      The Government and the Bank have discussed the dual problem of under-
investment in maintenance and over-investment in construction and have arrived
at a tentative solution. The Road Fund will be used to finance maintenance
and the investment budget to finance all new road construction. Under this
solution, the Road Fund would finance both routine and periodic maintenance,
including road rehabilitation and strengthening and equipment renewal and will
be provided with about CFAF 3.0 billion (US$14.3 million) starting in FY1981.
This allocation will increase in following years in accordance with increases
in the road network and inflation. The Road Fund would also be used to
finance small construction works ("Fonds de travaux et bretelles") costing up
to CFAF 300 million p.a. In addition the Government will create a special
account ("caisse d'avance") in the Treasury to finance small, local road
maintenance expenses totaling not more than CFAF 700 million (US$3.3 million)
a year; the special account will be replenished from the Road Fund.
2.27      As a prerequisite to negotiations, the Government has provided the
Bank with an acceptable draft decree specifying the sources of funds to be
allocated to and the uses and amounts of disbursements from the Road Fund. As
conditions of effectiveness, the Government will have to issue and publish (i)
a decree reorganizing the Road Fund, and (ii) an arrete establishing the
special account (caisse d'avance).
2.28      The Government has agreed to delete road maintenance funds from the
general budget, to include road construction in the investment budget and to
transfer the debt service on roads already built from the Road Fund to the
national debt. In addition, to keep a rein on new construction expenditures,
the Government has agreed to consult with the Bank before undertaking a new
road investment program.
H.   Engineering and Construction
2.29      DSP is responsible for feasibility studies and final engineering for
road construction, and DRC for road construction. Engineering studies for
road construction and supervision of construction works are carried out mainly
by foreign consultants; local consultants, including the Government-owned
Societe Nationale des Etudes de Developpement (SONED), have been successfully
acting as subcontractors. Contracts for road projects are normally awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding. DRC calls bids and evaluates bids. Approval
and signature of contracts are the responsibility of the National Tender Board
and either the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister, the latter if the
contract amount exceeds US$250,000. The construction industry is dominated by
foreign contractors (75% of the business), but the domestic construction
industry is making determined progress. Two major Senegalese construction
firms are competitive in all sectors of the industry, and 110 small- and
medium-sized firms are engaged primarily in the housing sector.



- 14 -
2.30      The Government wants to promote the local consulting and construction
capability. The proposed project will support this objective by enabling
local consultants, either in joint ventures with or as subcontractors to
foreign firms, to participate in studies and supervision under the project,
and by grouping the civil works into medium-sized lots of about US$10 million
to accommodate domestic contractors.
2.31      The national soils laboratory, Centre Experimental de Recherches et
d'Etudes pour l'Equipement (CEREEQ) satisfactorily carries out all soils
studies for design and construction supervision of all civil engineering
structures, technological research, and construction materials with the
assistance of the French Centre d'Experimentation du Batiment et des Travaux
Publics. From its financial statements, CEREEQ appears sound. However, it has
had difficulty in carrying out its work on time, because it must depend on
advances from the general treasury. The Government has agreed to grant CEREEQ
sufficient financial autonomy, including if necessary a caisse d'avance, to
enable more efficient operations.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives
3.01      The main road network of Senegal is now approaching a form which
meets the country's economic and social needs, but the roads have not been
kept in good repair. The lack of regular maintenance on all roads and of
timely strengthening of more heavily trafficked roads has meant that road
pavements have deteriorated to the extent that vehicle-operating costs are
grossly inflated. Efforts have already begun under previous Bank projects
to improve the planning and execution of road maintenance and to strengthen
and rehabilitate some of the more heavily trafficked roads. The major
objective of this project is to continue to increase the Government's capacity
to keep the road system in adequate condition, particularly reducing the acute
shortage of trained technicians and other skilled workers; to improve the
Government's capacity to plan road maintenance and strengthening and rehabil-
itation works in the most economical way; to rehabilitate 200 km of heavily
trafficked roads; and provide for the construction of the Louga-Dahra road.
B.   Project Description
3.02      To achieve the above objectives, the proposed project includes:
(a)  the first three years of a training program, with classroom
instruction and a training production brigade for road main-
tenance personnel, including:



- 15 -
(i) procurement of materials and supplies; and
(ii) technical assistance and fellowships for local
trainees and for training of consultants'
counterparts abroad;
(b)  a two and a half year technical assistance program for
execution of road maintenance;
(c)  procurement of equipment and construction of offices for
the Government soils laboratory (CEREEQ) to enable it to
participate in the preparation and supervision of road
maintenance programs;
(d)  design of proper and systematic pavement maintenance and
strengthening programs through the introduction of appropriate
technologies;
(e)  strengthening and rehabilitation of 200 km of primary paved
roads; and
(f)  construction of the Louga-Dahra road (85 km) to two-lane,
paved standards.
Training Program
3.03      One of the major problems impeding the efficient execution of
road maintenance is the lack of trained personnel at all levels of the road
maintenance organization (para. 2.19). The training program envisaged under
the project should provide needed personnel for the next five years to carry
out proper and timely road maintenance operations. During the three-year
program, about 360 existing employees should be retrained, including 30
engineers, 35 technicians, 280 mechanics, operators and drivers, 10 accountants
and 5 storekeepers. Another 360 employees should be recruited and trained,
including 3 engineers, 50 technicians, 280 mechanics, operators and drivers,
20 accountants and 7 storekeepers. The training program as prepared by
consultants ORT would combine classroom instruction with field training,
greater emphasis being placed on the latter. A mechanized brigade will be
used for field training, which, in addition to its training functions, is to
maintain trunk roads in the Cap Vert and Thies regions assigned to it by GDPW.
3.04      The Third Highway Project provided improvements to the training
center building and construction of an annex at the central workshop in
Dakar; procurement of equipment for the training center, the annex, and for
the training/production brigade; and six man-months of technical assistance.
The proposed project will provide technical assistance (210 man-months) to



- 16 -
implement the three-year training program, including the selection of trainees
and the operation of the training/production brigade; and procurement of
supplies for the operation of the training program. About 20 fellowships will
be granted to GDPW personnel to enable them to study abroad for 6 to 12
months. During their training period, GDPW personnel will receive daily
allowances in addition to their normal salaries. These should serve as
an incentive to prospective trainees and should attract existing GDPW personnel
from distant GDPW divisions. The training center will be headed and run by a
competent Senegalese professional with the help of consultants. Senegalese
instructors will receive on-the-job training in the center and additional
training abroad. As designed, the proposed training package is the most
cost-effective means of providing specific skills in road construction and
maintenance to GDPW personnel after their formal training in the Senegalese
schools. The training program will be reviewed every twelve months by the
Government and the Bank. Details on consultants' qualifications, team com-
position, length of service and terms of reference are given in Annex 4.
Consultants' terms of reference have been agreed upon at negotiations.
Technical Assistance for Road Maintenance
3.05      Consultants' services for improvement of road maintenance were pro-
vided under the First and Second Highway Projects and are continuing under
the Third. Consultants were expected to assist in: (i) planning and organiz-
ing the annual maintenance program; (ii) supervising and training maintenance
brigades in the field; (iii) training DPW personnel in cost accounting pro-
cedures; and (iv) organizing and supervising equipment repair at the central
equipment division and local workshops, and training local personnel in all
these activities.
3.06      Under these projects, consultants have started road maintenance
brigades in each region, conducted on-the-job training of road technicians
and mechanics, and helped the regions execute their annual road maintenance
programs. They were successful in introducing to reluctant GDPW personnel
cost accounting as a tool for management of road maintenance programs. Their
work was hampered by institutional and financial difficulties experienced by
the country. The new organizational set-up (para. 2.17), the financing of
road maintenance through the Road Fund and the creation of a special account
for minor expenses (para. 2.27) should help solve these problems.
3.07      The additional technical assistance (106 man-months) will be provided
to DRME under the project to assist the regional services in: (i) setting up
the new organization; (ii) planning and supervising the execution of mainte-
nance operations; and (iii) consolidating performance accounting as a tool for
management of maintenance programs. Details on consultants' qualifications,
team composition, length of services and terms of reference are given in
Annex 5. Consultants' terms of reference have been agreed upon at negotiations.



- 17 -
Equipment and Offices for Soils Laboratory
3.08      CEREEQ, the national soils laboratory, carries out research on the
utilization of construction materials and conducts soils investigations for
the design and construction supervision of civil engineering structures
including roads, bridges and buildings. As required by GDPW, CEREEQ will
expand its activities to road maintenance and assist DRME in the systematic
planning and supervision of road maintenance operations and pavement strengthen-
ing programs (para 3.09). Under the Third Highway Project, soils testing
equipment was provided to CEREEQ. The proposed project will provide for
construction of a new wing to the existing building and the procurement of
pavement testing and soils exploration equipment.  Details on items to be
purchased are given in Annex 3.
Design of Pavement Maintenance and Strengthening Programs
3.09      One of the aims of the proposed project is to introduce appropriate
methodologies to carry out proper and systematic pavement maintenance and
strengthening programs to prevent premature road reconstruction. The proposed
project thus includes a study to develop a systematic approach to pavement
maintenance and strengthening. It will cover about 1,600 km of the paved
network, including about 1,100 km of roads built in the 1960's and early
1970's, which are showing early signs of deterioration or pavement weakening.
The proposed study will include: (i) a systematic pavement testing program on
the critical primary road network; (ii) a study of appropriate road mainte-
nance operations and techniques; (iii) design of appropriate seasonal routine
road maintenance programs; (iv) establishment of a long-range resurfacing
program; and (v) pre-investment studies and final engineering for pavement
strengthening works on roads that can no longer be maintained by the routine
maintenance and resurfacing programs, as will be agreed upon between the
Government and the Bank at the studies' review stage. The study's terms of
reference, given in Annex 6, have been agreed upon at negotiations.
Strengthening and Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
3.10      A 1971 Louis Berger study, carried out under the First Highway
Project, identified about 1,000 km of primary roads whose pavement needed
strengthening. Most of these roads (900 km) were built before Senegal's
independence in 1960. Under the Second and Third Highway Projects, pave-
ment strengthening works were successfully carried out on 233 km.
3.11      The proposed project will continue previous efforts and provide for
strengthening and rehabilitation of an additional 200 km of paved roads which
were proposed by consultants Louis Berger as part of the Third Highway Proj-
ect. Improvement works will be carried out on the following ten road
sections:



Road Section                         Length                 1977 Traffic
km                       (vpd)
Dakar-Rufisque                          4.6                     9,500
Diam Niadio-Ndiass                     15.0                     2,150
Nguekokh-Mbour                         4.6                      2,150
Sebikotane-Thies                      21.7                      4,500
Fatick-Kaolack                        42.0                      1,750
Kaolack-Passy                           8.1                        570
Passy-Sokone                           17.5                        500
Sokone-Karang                         11.4                        430
Kaffrine-Mbacke                       35.3                         200
St. Louis-Ross Bethio                 40.0                        960
200.2
3.12      These roads were built between 13 and 30 years ago; they now carry
up to 10,000 vpd with axle loads frequently exceeding the present permissible
single axle load of 13 tons. The pavements have not been regularly maintained
and strengthened. On some lengths, mainly those carrying lighter traffic, the
pavements can be restored to adequate condition by repairing potholes and by
providing new running surfaces, i.e., by strengthening the existing pavements.
But over much of the lengths, the condition has deteriorated to the extent
that reconstruction of the pavement is necessary, and some lengths of pavement
need to be widened to accommodate the traffic flows. As proposed under
consultant Louis Berger's June 1978 study of a pavement strengthening program,
the improvements consist of: (i) rebuilding subgrades, (ii) construction of a
new base course and a double surface treatment or a 3 cm to 4 cm asphalt
concrete wearing course; (iii) regravelling of shoulders; (iv) improvement of
drainage structures; and (v) widening of the roadway to 8.5-13 m and of the
pavement to 6-10 m on sections now below these standards. The road design is
based on a maximum single axle-load of 13 tons. It is expected that resurfac-
ing will be required after 7-8 years. A description of each of the road
sections and of the improvements proposed is given in Annex 7.
Construction of the Louga-Dahra Road
3.13      The Louga-Dahra corridor, which provides access to a groundnut-
producing area and several villages, is now served by a rail branch line
and a sand track. The line is laid directly on sand and is no longer being
maintained. The Government has been subsidizing operation of the line and
intends to dismantle it as soon as a road is built. The sand track, running
parallel to the rail line is passable only during the dry season and only to
four-wheel drive vehicles and light trucks.



- 19 -
3.14      The proposed project provides for the construction of the Louga-
Dahra road to two-lane paved standards, as per consultants SETEC in their
November 1978 study carried out under the Third Highway Project. The pro-
jected road (85 km) will be north of the rail line and crosses a flat terrain
studded with rolling sand dunes. The road is designed for a speed of 80 km/h
and a maximum single axle-load of 13 tons. The road alignment will be
straight on 67 km or 79% of its total length, with grades below 2% and 1,500
m minimum radius for horizontal curves. The roadway will be 9 m wide and
paved on 6 m. The pavement will consist of a subbase and a 20 cm laterite or
15 cm cement stabilized soil base course and a double surface treatment
wearing course.
C.   Project Cost and Financing
3.15      The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties, is estimated
at US$59.5 million equivalent, with local costs of US$15.0 million equivalent
(25%) and foreign costs of about US$44.5 million equivalent (75%). Government
has agreed to exonerate the project from taxes and duties which would have
totaled about US$12.6 million equivalent. Project costs, detailed in Annex 8,
are summarized below:



- 20 -
Cost Estimate (January 1980)
___________-----  US$ 000
Total       Foreign
Net of   as % of Total
I.  COST ESTIiIATE                   Taxes    Local    Foreign  Taxes   Net of Taxes
a)  Training Program                   262    1,709       3,042    4,751           65
Materials/supplies                 262       157        889    1,046           85
Tech. Asst/fellowships               0    1,552       2,153    3,705           60
b)  Tech. Asst. for Road Maint.          0       183      1,036    1,219           85
c)  Strengthening/Rehab. of
200 km paved roads            9,229    9,608    29,254   38,862              75
Construction works               9,179    9,179    27,536   36,715             75
Supervision                         50       429      1,718    2,147           80
d)  CEREEQ                              49        70        543       613          89
Office construction                 49        49        146       195          75
Equipment                            0        21        397       418          95
e)  Design:Maintenance &
Strengthening Programs              25       231        924    1,155           80
f)  Construction of
Louga-Dahra Road                 3,053    3,190       9,725   12,915           75
Construction Works              3,037    3,037       9,113   12,150            75
Supervision                         16       153        612       765          80
TOTAL PROJECT COST              12,618   14,991    44,524   59,515             75
of which:
Base cost                    9,950   12,175    35,710   47,885              75
Physical contingencies         963       963      2,890    3,853            75
Price contingencies          1,705    1,853       5,924    7,777            76
3.16       The foreign cost component of civil works is estimated at 75% of
total cost, net of taxes, and that of equipment, 95%. With the exception of
services provided by CEREEQ, the foreign component of consultants' services
is estimated at 80% for construction and supervision and road preinvestment
studies and 85% for technical assistance. No taxes are levied on consultants'
services in Senegal with the exception of CEREEQ, the national soils labora-
tory. The fellowships are entirely a foreign cost, while the premium given to
trainees (para. 3.04) is entirely a local cost.
3.17      The estimated quantities and costs for pavement rehabilitation and
strengthening and road construction are based on detailed engineering plans
prepared by consultants; 10% physical contingencies are allowed for these
items during execution. Project cost estimates are at January 1980 prices



- 21 -
(para. 3.15), and price contingencies have been included taking into account
expected international price escalation of 9% in 1980, 8% in 1981 and 7% p.a.
thereafter.
3.18      The cost of the Louga-Dahra road construction per km (excluding
taxes and contingencies) is estimated at CFAF 23.7 million (US$113,000),
and the road rehabilitation and strengthening works average CFAF30.2 million
(US$144,000) per km. These costs are in line with the costs of similar works
in Senegal carried out after competitive bidding. The cost of construction
supervision amounts to about 6% of construction costs. The cost of technical
assistance is based on man-month unit prices of similar services in Senegal.
The billing rate for consultant services is estimated at an average of
US$6,500 per field man-month and includes salaries and overhead (home office
expenses, expatriate allowances, social security, proposal preparation and
other indirect expenses). Reimbursable expenses payable to consultants are
estimated at US$3,500 per field man-month including housing, internal and
external travel, and telecommunications. Fellowships are estimated at
US$5,000 a year including travel; daily allowances of CFAF 1000 per local
trainee are foreseen. The cost of the proposed studies is based on a com-
bination of consultants' cost and CEREEQ official billing rates for soils,
foundation and materials studies.
3.19      Due to a significant and serious budgetary constraint experienced
by Senegal, it has been agreed that the Bank Group and any co-lender should
finance about 85% of total project costs, net of taxes. This represents the
total foreign costs plus 40% of local costs. External sources will thus
provide about US$50.9 million to finance the project. The Japanese Government
is financing, under a parallel arrangement, the total cost, net of taxes, of
the construction of the Louga-Dahra road (US$12.9 million); its OECF has
approved a 2.5 billion yen loan. The Bank Group would contribute a US$10.0
million loan and a US$28 million credit, and the Government, which has decided
to exonerate the project from taxes and duties, will contribute the remaining
US$8.6 million toward the cost of the project. The financing plan is shown
below.
FINANCING PLAN
(US$'000)
Local     Foreign      Total
Bank and IDA                         3,200     34,800      38,000
Japan                                3,200      9,700      12,900
Government                           8,600           0      8,600
Total                  15,000      44,500     59,500
D.   Implementation
3.20      The project will be implemented by the ME through its GDPW.  The
expected implementation schedule for the major activities of each project
element is shown on the chart on the next page. The project will take



SENEGAL
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR
1979              1980                    1981                    1982                    1983
ITEM            ITEM COMPONENTS                ACTIVITY                   ACTION BY.                                                                               _
3rd  4th   Ist  2nd   3rd   4th  1st  2nd   3rd  4th  1st  2nd   3rd   4th   1st  2nd   3rd   4th
Loan and Credit                               Signing                      Government/Bank
Effectiveness                Government/Bank
Training              Technical Assistance     Short Listing of Consultants    Government/Bank
Proposals                    Consultants
Evaluation and Award         Government/Bank
Consultants' Services        Consultants
Road Maintenance     Technical Assistance,     Consultant Services          Consultants
Improvement of        Road Improvement        Preparation of Bids          Contractors
200 Km of paved                               Evaluation and Award          Government/Bank
Roads                                         Construction                  Contractors                                              -                                   -     -
CEREEQ                Office Construction     Preparation of Bids           Contractors
Evaluation and Award         Government/Bank
Contractors                  Contractors
(Soils Laboratory)    Equipment               Preparation of Bids           Suppliers
Evaluation and Award         Government/Bank
Suppliers                    Suppliers
Road Improvements    Paved Road Network        Short Listing of Consultants    Government/Bank
Preinvestment         Improvement Studies     Proposals                     Consultants
Studies                                        Evaluation and Award         Government/Bank
Feasibility Studies          Consultants
Review                       Government/Bank
Detail Engineering           Consultants
Road Construction     Construction of 1/      Preparation of Bids           Contractors
Louga-Oahra             Evaluation of Bids           Government/OECF
Road (85 Km)            Construction                 Contractors              _                              =||
1/ Acquired OECF Financing                                                                                                                                                                 World Bank -20377



- 23 -
about four years to complete. The Louga-Dahra road construction should start
in June 1980 and take approximately 18 months to complete. Road rehabili-
tation should start in September 1980 and take approximately 27 months to
complete. Improvement and construction of buildings for the soils laboratory
should be completed by December 1981. Soils laboratory equipment should be
delivered by March 1981. Technical assistance for training would be provided
for three years starting September 1980. Technical assistance for execution
of road maintenance would continue for two and a half years starting July
1980.  Studies of road maintenance operations, planning and pavement
strengthening should produce road maintenance and pavement strengthening
programs requiring timely implementation to prevent the rapid deterioration of
the paved road network.  These studies should start in September 1980 and take
about two years to complete with a review by the Government and the Bank in
the fourth quarter of 1981. The Government has agreed to prepare and submit
to the Bank Group, within six months of the final disbursement, a completion
report.
E.   Procurement
3.21      The construction of the Louga-Dahra road will be executed by con-
tractors on the basis of competitive bidding, following procedures of Japan's
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) guidelines. The improvement of 200
km of paved roads will be carried out by contractors on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for
procurement. Prospective bidders will have to be prequalified. To support
the domestic construction industry, road improvement will be packaged in
medium-sized lots. Improvement and construction of office buildings, esti-
mated at US$195,000 net of taxes will be carried out by contractors on the
basis of local competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank.
3.22      The Government intends to award construction supervision contracts
to the consulting firms which carried out preinvestment studies and detailed
engineering of the road improvement, and technical assistance contracts for
road maintenance to the consulting firm which is assisting the Government in
setting up the new road maintenance organization and initiating new road
maintenance management and techniques (para. 3.06). The Bank does not
object to the hiring of consultants Louis Berger to supervise the pavement
strengthening and rehabilitation of 200 km of roads and provide technical
assistance to road maintenance. The hiring of SETEC International to supervise
construction of the Louga-Dahra road will be subject to agreement between the
Government and OECF.
3.23      Equipment will be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Bidders will compete on the
basis of cost, delivery time and reliability of after-sales service offered.
Items costing under US$20,000, including office furniture and equipment, small
tools, spare parts, cars, etc., may be procured on the basis of quotations
obtained locally; the total amount of such purchases should not exceed
US$300,000. Materials and supplies for the training brigade will be procured
on the basis of quotations obtained from local suppliers. The above arrange-
ments have been agreed upon at negotiations.



- 24 -
3.24      The consultants for technical assistance for training and preinvest-
ment studies will be selected following Bank Group procedures. To support
local consultants, foreign consultants will be encouraged to form joint
ventures with and subcontract Senegalese consulting firms.
F.   Disbursen.'SIats
3.25      The proposed Bank loan and IDA credit (para. 3.19) would be
disbursed on the following basis:
(a)  76% of total contract expenditures net of taxes for civil works
(excluding the Louga-Dahra road but including improvement and
construction of buildings and road improvement works);
(b)  100% of expenditures for consulting services, technical
assistance, fellowships, and daily allowances; and
(c)  100% of cif cost for imported equipment, materials and supplies
and 85% of costs if procured locally.
3.26      The disbursement percentages have been computed in accordance with
the policy of the Bank Group that no proceeds of loans and credits should be
disbursed on account of payment of taxes and duties in the territory of the
Borrower.
3.27      The estimated schedule of disbursements from the Loan and Credit
accounts is shown below.



- 25 -
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(us$  000)
Bank Group
Fiscal Year and                                         Cumulative Disbursements
Quarter Ending                                             at End of Quarter
1981
September 1980                                                 180
December 1980                                                2,000
March 1981                                                   4,000
June 1981                                                   6,000
1982
September 1981                                              8,000
December 1981                                              10,000
March 1982                                                  13,000
June 1982                                                  16,000
1983
September 1982                                             18,500
December 1982                                              21,000
March 1983                                                  24,500
June 1983                                                  27,000
1984
September 1983                                             30,000
December 1983                                              33,000
March 1984                                                 36,000
June 1984                                                  38,000
3.28      The disbursement on contracts of the Louga-Dahra road (US$12.9
million) will follow the guidelines of Japan's OECF.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
4.01      The main benefit of the project will be its institutional impact,
enabling the public works organization to plan and carry out its functions
efficiently. The Government has already taken steps towards its success: it
has reorganized and decentralized public works maintenance activities, it has
recognized the importance of training and is setting up a permanent training
center, and it is instituting new appropriation and disbursement procedures.
Overall, the main quantifiable benefits used in this report are savings in
vehicle operating costs to be derived from a better maintained road network.
In the case of the Louga-Dahra road construction, benefits also include the
avoidance of the cost of operating an uneconomic rail branch line. No attempt
has been made to quantify any additional benefits, such as increased economic
activity, which the road improvements might induce, or benefits from time
savings or better quality passenger travel.



- 26 -
4.02      Vehicle operating costs used in the evaluation are derived from
consultants' feasibility studies. All costs and benefits were calculated in
1978 values, net of tax; it was not necessary to apply shadow rates to foreign
exchange cost or to labor costs, as they are considered to be at their parity
levels.
Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
(CFAF/km, at 1978 prices)
Paved Road             Gravel Road
Good     Fair    Poor            Good
Private Car             24       31       38              35
Taxi                    36       47       58              52
Small truck             33       44       55              44
Bus                     64       85      102              81
Large truck             89      116      142             105
(+30%) (+60%)
Source:   SETEC, Berger, and mission estimates, 1979.
4.03      The project will have widespread beneficiaries, since it should
improve the condition of virtually the entire main network. Vehicle operating
cost savings are expected to be passed on to shippers and passengers, as truck
and bus operations are competitive, and fares take road conditions into
account.
4.04      The overall economic return from the project will be about 30%
excluding the cost of the technical assistance and training program. Benefits
from the latter are expected to be very high, but have not been included, as
their quantifications would be spurious.
B.   Maintenance Program
4.05      Senegal's public works department has about US$30 million worth of
maintenance equipment which is sufficient to implement its maintenance program.
However, this considerable investment is being underused because operating
funds are not provided on time or in adequate amounts and because the organi-
zation and management of maintenance operations have been inefficient. In
addition, the equipment is not properly maintained and wears out prematurely.
It was demonstrated under the Third Highway Project that equipment utilization
could be tripled (as occurred in the Thies pilot region) through the provision
of adequate operating funds, improvements in management and intensive training.
The thrust of the maintenance component of the proposed project is therefore
to secure the necessary institutional improvements to make the maintenance
program efficient nationwide and to sustain it on a permanent basis. The
Government will give maintenance priority by using the Road Fund for mainte-
nance instead of new construction, providing adequate operating funds, and
introducing agreed organizational improvements.



- 27 -
4.06      The project will complement steps taken by the Government by pro-
viding US$1.0 million for technical assistance for road maintenance and US$4.4
million for a training program. The cost per trainee would be a maximum of
about US$3,750, including capital costs. The training program is estimated
to be cost effective. Some trained personnel will leave the Government since
its salaries are lower than the private sector's. However, the benefits will
not be lost to Senegal, since the trainees will find jobs in the expanding
construction industry which will execute most periodic maintenance under the
proposed project.
4.07      The project also provides technical assistance to the regions to
enable them to program, budget, and manage their own maintenance operations
in accordance with the Government's decentralization policy. Given that the
annual road maintenance budget is more than US$10 million, an investment of
US$500,000 per year for competent technical assistance is considered to be
appropriate to ensure that it is efficiently utilized. Even though the
benefits from the technical assistance program should be very high, they are
difficult to quantify, since (i) the major project inputs are institutional
improvements which do not require a capital investment; and (ii) the major
capital expenditures for maintenance equipment have already been made. On the
other hand, the benefit of gaining a major improvement in maintenance effi-
ciency from a relatively small project component is evident.
C.   Road Strengthening and Rehabilitation
4.08      The roads to be strengthened, which are some of the most heavily
trafficked in the country, were built 13-30 years ago and are now approaching
the end of their economic life. Heavy maintenance, required more and more
frequently, can no longer arrest the accelerating deterioration of the
pavement.
4.09      This phase of the pavement strengthening program comprises ten road
sections totalling about 200 km. Eighty-eight kilometers of the proposed
roads form part of the main trunk road system linking Dakar with four heavily
populated regions (Thies, Sine Saloum, Eastern Senegal, and Casamance). Most
of the groundnut crop, as well as most of the imports destined for the in-
terior, pass over these sections. Thirty-seven kilometers of road are
sections of the main road linking Dakar with Banjul (The Gambia) and also
serve to evacuate groundnuts produced in the area. This road is likely to
increase in importance following recent improvements in the Banjul-Barra ferry
service across the Gambia River and in complementary road links in the Casamance
region (see Map). Forty kilometers are part of the main road between Dakar
and the Senegal River Valley and Mauritania and serve an area which is undergo-
ing intensive development of irrigation-based agriculture. The remaining 35
kilometers are sections of an interregional road which also services a ground-
nut producing area (Annex 7).
4.10-     Traffic on the project roads was estimated to range from 195 to
9,540 vpd at 1977, based on 7-day manual counts, mechanical counts, and a
review of other traffic counts, carried out by consultants Berger. Average
annual traffic volumes were estimated from the survey data on the basis of
local seasonal variations in fuel consumption. Traffic growth was forecast
after a review of available traffic statistics in each region and recent
trends in traffic and economic indicators.



- 28 -
4.11      The economic justification for the pavement strengthening and
rehabilitation rests on avoiding rapid increases in vehicle operating
and road maintenance cost, since roads are expected to deteriorate to a
"ruined" condition between 1980 and 1983. Consultants Berger recommended a
level of pavement strengthening which amounts to complete reconstruction.
The recommendc_i level of rehabilitation was then compared to the "without"
alternative, i.e., a high level of recurrent and periodic maintenance of
existing pavement. Maintenance costs were estimated from the experience with
the ongoing maintenance program.  Anticipated vehicle operating cost savings
and capital and recurrent expenditures were discounted over the life of the
pavement strengthening, taken as 15 years.
4.12      The economic return from the 10 sections ranges from 15% to 60%,
with first year returns ranging from 14% to 56% (Annex 9). The economic
return on individual links of the 10 sections were generally in the same
range, with some minor exceptions. The overall economic return from the
proposed pavement strengthening program is estimated to be 40%.
4.13      The greatest risk for this program is that maintenance may fail to
improve, thus shortening the life of the project roads. The economic return
was recalculated assuming that the roads would last only eight to ten years
according to the region, i.e., that the region would do the poorest maintenance
or none at all. Under this highly pessimistic assumption, the economic return
for 128 km ranges between 18% and 58%, and for the remaining 72 km, it ranges
from negative to 4%. The economic justification for the latter 72 km is thus
dependent upon the successful implementation of the maintenance program
assisted by the project.
4.14      The various components of the economic evaluation have not been
forecast with equal reliability. Other risks are that (i) construction
costs have been underestimated or that delay in project implementation
would increase costs more than benefits; (ii) base year traffic was over-
estimated; or (iii) the traffic growth was optimistic. Sensitivity tests
were accordingly calculated as follows:
Estimated Economic Return (%)
Lowest Return
Overall             Section
Best Estimate                                 40                 14
Costs increase 20%                            34                 12
Traffic decreases 20%                         32                 11
Traffic growth rate decreases 20%             38                 14
The rates of return are therefore sufficiently high, based solely on vehicle
operating and maintenance cost savings, to absorb any combination of reason-
ably probable adverse circumstances provided the maintenance program is
implemented.



- 29 -
D.   Construction of the Louga-Dahra Road
4.15      The corridor between Louga and Dahra is the most important transport
link within the recently created Louga region. It connects the regional
capital (Louga) with the inland cities of Dahra and Linguere (see Map). The
corridor is now served by a dilapidated rail branch line and by a sand track
passable only to 4-wheel drive vehicles and trucks during part of the year.
Other road vehicles must travel through Kebemer, a distance of about 125 km
compared with 95 km by the proposed road.  The corridor has a population of
about 230,000, including a number of villages accessible only by rail. The
region is primarily agricultural and marketed about 33,000 tons of groundnuts
in 1977.  An additional 52,000 tons of other commodities were also transported
in the corridor that year, including commercialized foodstuffs, agricultural
inputs and building materials. Consultants SETEC forecast that freight
traffic would increase to 116,300 tons in 1982 and 243,900 tons in 1997, on
the basis of population, acreage available for production, and expected
yields. Their forecast was used for the present analysis.
4.16      The rail is in very poor condition, being equipped with old 25 kg
rail, some of which are laid directly on sand. Service, provided by one mixed
train per day, is frequently disrupted due to poor track maintenance. Traffic
was a modest 144,000 passengers and 2,700 tons of cargo in FY1976; most cargo
traffic has long since diverted to road transport due to inadequate service.
The line operates at a deficit of about CFAF 75 million (US$340,000) p.a.,
which could be avoided if the line were closed. It does not appear possible
to improve transport service economically by investing in the railway, since
traffic levels do not warrant providing more than one train per day. Improved
maintenance of the existing way and vehicles could improve reliability and
reduce the average travel time. As another course of action, CFS could
provide autorail service which would require an investment of about CFAF 1.5
billion (US$6.8 million) for track reconstruction and purchase of rail cars.
Neither solution, however, would likely divert any significant volume of road
traffic, and the rail operating deficit would remain about the same.
4.17      The economic justification for constructing a paved road was there-
fore evaluated by comparison with a reference case which assumes (i) one
mixed train per day with improved maintenance (average travel time reduced
from 3 to 1-1/2 hours), (ii) an unmaintainted sand track between Louga and
Dahra, and (iii) the existing road network. Construction of a gravel road
in the corridor was not evaluated in detail, since the cost would be only
6% less than for a paved road due to the need to provide a heavy surface
course over sand; at the same time, maintenance costs would be higher and
benefits lower. The alternative of maintaining rail service after the road
is opened was also not evaluated in detail because of the expected diversion
of rail traffic to road following construction.
4.18      Freight traffic was estimated from production forecasts in the
road's area of influence (para. 4.01) and converted to vehicle equivalents
assuming a 50-55% vehicle load factor. All rail passenger traffic was
estimated to divert to public road transport because of the lower cost
and the more frequent and faster service. All road passenger traffic between



- 30 -
Louga and Dahra was estimated to divert to the new road because of the signifi-
cantly shorter travel distance. In addition, about 46% of the traffic between
Dakar/Thies and Dahra was estimated to divert to the new road, based on
relative travel costs. The Louga-Dahra road is also expected to generate
substantial traffic because of the high cost and poor quality of travel in the
corridor at present. Consultants SETEC estimated that the inc:- se in long
distance traffic would be proportional to the square of the reduction in
travel cost. This is consistent with experience following new road construc-
tion elsewhere in West Africa and was adapted for this analysis. Local
generated passenger traffic was estimated using a gravity model by consultants
SETEC, consistent with the experience in other West African countries.
4.19      Freight traffic growth was estimated on the basis of production
forecasts, and passenger traffic was forecast to grow 6.3% p.a. based on
recent trends in fuel consumption and vehicle registrations. The project
life was estimated to be 20 years. Traffic during 1981, the year the
project is expected to open to traffic, is estimated as follows:
Estimated Traffic in 1981
(vehicles per day)
Diverted                       Generated
from rail
(vehicle          from           Long
Vehicle Class        equivalents)    other roads    distance   Local /1  Total
Private Car               -               24             39         25        88
Taxi                     13               80             40          -        133
Small Truck               -               13              7         15         35
Bus                       1                8              4          -         13
Large Truck               1               14              -          -         15
Total               15              139             90         40       284
/1   Full distance equivalents; average trip estimated to be 30 km.
Source:   SETEC and mission.
4.20      Project costs consist of (i) road construction, including supervi-
sion; and (ii) road maintenance, derived from experience with the road mainte-
nance program. Project benefits accrue to (i) diverted rail traffic, taken as
the difference between road vehicle and rail operating costs; (ii) diverted
road traffic, consisting of reduced vehicle operating costs primarily due to
distance savings; and (iii) generated passenger traffic.
4.21      The economic return from constructing the Louga-Dahra road is
estimated to be 15%, with a first year return of 12%. There are no partic-
ular risks associated with the construction of the Louga-Dahra road. If
project costs have been underestimated by 20%, the economic return would be
13%, and the first year return 10%. If project benefits have been over-
estimated by 20% the economic return would be 12% and the first year return
10%. Construction therefore appears to be economically justified.



- 31 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      As a condition for negotiating the proposed Loan and Credit, the
Government has provided the Bank with a draft decree specifying the sources,
amount and uses of funds from the reorganized Road Fund (para. 2.27).
5.02      The following principal items were discussed and agreed upon by
the Government and specified as covenants in the Loan and Credit Agreements:
(a) that the Government will prepare an action program by December 1980
and take effective steps to enforce axle load limits and restrict
the importation of vehicles to those that fall within the legal
weight and dimensions (para. 2.10);
(b)  that the Government will consult with the Bank before under-
taking any new road investment program (para. 2.28);
(c) that the Road Fund will be used for road maintenance and will be
provided with an initial CFAF 3 billion in FY1981, (paras. 2.26 and
2.27);
(d)  that a special account (Caisse d'Avance) will be created and
replenished by the Road Fund, to finance small local road maintenance
expenses for a maximum of CFAF 700 million a year (paras. 2.26 and
2.27);
(e) that CEREEQ will be granted financial autonomy (para. 2.31);
(f) that the GDPW will recruit and train staff as needed
(para. 3.03); and
(g) that the Government will prepare and submit to the Bank Group
within six months of the final disbursement, a completion
report (para. 3.20).
(h) that new road investments will be added to the investment budget
(paras. 2.26 and 2.28);
(i) that the debt service for roads previously financed
under the Road Fund will be added to the national debt (para.
2.28); and
(j) that daily allowances of CFAF 1000 will be paid to the local
trainees (paras. 3.04, 3.18).



- 32 -
5.03      The following items were also agreed upon:
(a)  deletion of road maintenance funds from the general budget
(para. 2.28);
(b)  prc-otion and support of local contractors and consultants
(para 2.30);
(c)  the terms of reference for the technical assistance to implement
the training program (para. 3.04 and Annex 4) and for road
maintenance (para. 3.07 and Annex 5); and
(d)  the terms of reference for the study of pavement maintenance
and strengthening programs (para. 3.09 and Annex 6).
5.04      As conditions for effectiveness, the Government would issue and
publish (i) a decree reorganizing the Road Fund; and (ii) an Arrete
establishing a special account ("caisse d'avance") to be replenished from the
Road Fund (para. 2.27).
5.05      Agreement having been reached on the above items, the proposed
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$10 million and an IDA credit of
US$28 million, to the Government of Senegal.
4~~~~~~



SENEGAL
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annual Highway Expenditures-1 FY71-FY79
(CFAF millions)
Operating Costs                         Personnel
Operating Costa          for subdivisions                           General Administration
Year        for Maintenance 2/    and Central Workshop         Maintenance          and Overhead 3/            Road Fund 4/       Total
1970/71             710                      166                    559                    610                        450          2,482
1971/72             726                      165                    553                    602                        450          2,515
1972/73             686                      156                    573                    565                        549          2,518                  e
1973/74             776                      134                    402                    414                        730          2,462
1974/75             891                      121                    496                    503                     1,000           3,002
1975/76           1,025                      129                              1,040                                1,280           3,474
1976/77           1,179                      125 5/                 --        1,054 -                              2,860           5,218
1977/78           1,179 5/                   125  5-                -         1,040                                2,166           4,510
1978/79           1,445                      125  5/                -         1,100 - -                            1,323      6/ 3,993
1/  Excluding urban roads and external financing
2/ Including maintenance works undertaken by contract
3/ For DPW, including building and new construction
4/ Used almost exclusively for new road construction
5/  Estinate
6/  Excludes counterpart funds for IBRD and African Bank projects previously financi.d from the Road Fund
Source: DPW and mission estimates



34                                AN-INX 2
FOUrdll ,IIC1i7.l.kY PROiJI;CT
Road Desiin Standards
Design'Soeed (km/hr)
*. ...              100         80         60        40
ROAD WIDTH
Pavement (ui)                                  7         6          6         6
$Ihoudezs (vn)       ..    .1.5                        1.0        1.0       1.0
, *  ,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
EORIZONTAL ALIGNTU4ENT
Eorizontal Curves Minimum Radii
Normal (m)                                665       425        240       120
Absolute (im)                             425       240        120        40
M.aximum. Superelevation
Normal %                                    4         5          5         5
Absolute %                                  7         7          7         7
VERTICAL ALICGNMENT
Crest Cturves Minimum Radii
Normal (m)                            12,000      6,000     3,000      1,500
Absolute (m)                            6,000     3,000     1,500        500
Sag Curves Minimum Radii
Normal (ia)                             4,200     3,000     2,200      1,500
Abzolute (m)                            3,000     2,20n     1,500        700
Masxrimum_ G;7ades %                           5         6          7         8
Design Axto Load:  13t
Source: Consultants' Studies
December 7, 1979



- 35 -                                 ANNEX 3
SENEGAL
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment to be Procured
(As of January 1980)
Costs (CFA Million) tf
Total C. I. F.
Number    Unit Price           (Dakar)
CEREEQ (Soils Laboratory)
Deflectqmeter truck (type CEBTP or Lacroix)        1        60                60.00
Light vehicle                                     2          1.5                3.00
Four-wheel drive vehicle                          1          1.8               1.80
Auger mounted truck                                1        13.0              13.00
Automatic Proctor compactor                       1          1.20              1.20
Miscellaneous tools                            various      -----              0.80
Total Cost                                                        79.800
Source: GDPW and Consultants' report
1/  At an exchange rate of US$1   210 CFAF
2/ Complement to training brigade equipment provided by GDPW
3/ To repair a road patching truck provided by GDPW
December 7, 1979



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
SENEGAL
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance for the Training Program
Outline Terms of Reference
Objectives:
1.        The objectives of the technical assistance for the training program
are:
(a)  installation of a permanent training center in Dakar;
(b)  design of appropriate courses for the specialties required;
(c)  continuation and strengthening of training of mechanics
and other technical staff in the brigades and regional workshops
begun under the Second and Third Highway Projects;
(d)  implementation of training and seminars for road sector chiefs
and other skilled personnel required for the road maintenance
brigades;
(e)  management, administration and supervision of:
(i) a training-production brigade for maintenance of road
sections as specified by the Government;
(ii) the training center; and
(f) assistance to GDPW in recruiting and training additional skilled
staff needed to execute the road maintenance program.
Team Composition
2.        The center will be headed by a Senegalese professional.  A team
of seven technical experts will be assigned to the center. Composition of
the team and the length of each expert's assignment is summarized below:



- 37 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
Consultants                                                    Man-Months
(a)  mechanical or highway engineer (chief of mission)             30
(b)  road maintenance and construction expert                      30
(c) three mechanical engineers specializing in
heavy equipment for gasoline and diesel-powered
machinery                                                     90
(d)  expert in training equipment operators                        30
(e)  brigade chief                                                 30
TOTAL         210
Qualifications
3.        Each consultant should have:
(a) fluency in spoken and written French;
(b) training experience in his field in order to
facilitate professional and technical instruction;
(c) work experience in a developing country; and
(d) education commensurate with the position to be
occupied.
Particular qualifications and functions of the team members are described
below:
Chief of Mission
4.        The Chief of Mission should be a mechanical engineer (or senior
technician) with experience in operation and maintenance of road equipment,
or a civil engineer (or senior technician) with experience in road construc-
tion and maintenance. He should have at least (a) ten years' experience
in road administration, construction and maintenance, as well as in budget
matters and cost-price accounting; and (b) five years' experience in tech-
nical and professional training, preferably on-the-job training. Experience
in administration and financial management of a construction firm and/or in
manpower planning and personnel management is desirable. His duties will
include:
(i) coordinating all mission activities and maintaining liaison
with GDPW officials;
(ii) preparing professional ability tests to be used as a basis
for recruiting personnel, and recommending the personnel to be
recruited; and



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
(iii) assisting in training regional chiefs and cost accounting personnel.
Road Maintenance and Construction Expert
5.        He should be a civil technician or road works foreman with at least
five years' experience. In particular, he should have extensive knowledge of
and experience in (a) construction and maintenance equipment; (b) use of heavy
equipment; (c) various elements of road construction; and (d) soils engineering.
He should:
(i) train the work-site chiefs;
(ii) assist in training equipment inspectors and operators; and
(iii) provide technical, on-site training to sector chiefs.
Heavy Equipment Mechanics (3)
6.        They should have at least eight years' professional experience in
the use of heavy equipment for public works. Their qualifications should be as
follows: (a) specialization in both diesel and gasoline engines; (b) expe-
rience in operation and maintenance of equipment used in maintenance work;
(c) knowledge of vehicle electrical systems; and (d) basic knowledge of
general mechanics. They should:
(i) train and give refresher courses to diesel- and gasoline-
engine mechanics;
(ii)  train and give refresher courses to mechanics and mechanic-
helper/greasers for workshops and mechanized road units;
(iii) train spare-parts storemen; and
(iv)  assist in training equipment inspectors.
Expert in Training Equipment Operator
7.        This expert should have at least three years' experience in training
equipment operators.  He should be familiar with the major types of heavy
equipment currently used in road construction and maintenance.  He will:
(i) train and give refresher courses to operators of various types
of road machinery; and
(ii)  supervise the mechanics and greasers assigned to worksites.



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
Brigade Chief
8.        He should have at least eight years' experience in the use of public
works equipment and for road maintenance and construction in general. His
duties will be the following:
(i) organizing the training production brigade for maintenance
(routine and periodic) in collaboration with the Chief
of Mission and GDPW;
(ii) preparing the manpower and functional organization of the
training brigade;
(iii) assisting GDPW in preparing the training brigade's annual
work program;
(iv) supervising the road maintenance work performed by the training
brigade; and
(v) ensuring the training of GDPW personnel in the above works and
that of Senegalese counterparts who will then be able to assume
responsibility for the training brigade and any other brigades
which might be formed.
9.        The Government will assign counterparts to these experts.  The
counterparts will receive on-the-job training in Senegal and additional
training abroad, if necessary. The counterparts are destined to replace
the expert instructors at the end of the program.
Reports:
10.       Consultants should prepare:
(a) monthly progress reports;
(b) a yearly project review, its accomplishments, shortcomings,
and future orientations submitted to the Government and
the Bank for their assessment;
(c) a draft and final project completion report and evaluations.



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
SENEGAL
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consultants' Services for Technical Assistance to the DRME Maintenance Program
Outline Terms of Reference
Objectives:
1.        As the final phase of technical assistance for road maintenance
begun under previous projects (Credits 198-SE and 366-SE, and Loan 1222-SE),
the objectives of technical assistance under the proposed project are to
assist DRME and regional services in:
(a)  settling the new organization (para. 2.17);
(b)  planning and supervising the execution of road maintenance
operations; and
(c)  using performance accounting as a tool for management of
road maintenance programs.
Composition of the Team
2.        A team of five technical experts will be assigned to DRME.  The
composition of the team and estimated length of services of each expert
can be summarized as follows:
Experts                                         Man-Months
Organization expert (Mission chief)                26
Two road maintenance and construction
experts                                          40
Two mechanical engineers                           40
TOTAL          106
Qualifications and Functions
3.        Each expert should:  (a) be fluent in French; (b) have training
experience in his field; (c) have experience in a developing country; and
(c) have education commensurate with the position to be filled. Specific
qualifications and functions of the different team members are described
as follows:



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
Chief of Mission
4.        The Chief of Mission should be a mechanical or highway engineer
specializing in organization systems and should have at least five years'
experience in this field; in addition, he should have at least five years'
experience in the use of cost accounting as a management tool. His duties
will include:
(i) coordinating all mission activities and maintaining liaison with
GDPW;
(ii) implementing the new road maintenance organization in Dakar
and the eight regional services;
(iii) introducing cost accounting in the management of road maintenance
in Dakar and the eight regional services; and
(iv) continuing training of cost accounting personnel in cooperation
with the training center (para. 3.03 and Annex 4).
Road Maintenance and Construction Experts (2)
5.        They should be civil engineers with at least five years
experience. In particular, they should have extensive knowledge of and
experience in (a) construction and maintenance of roads; (b) use of heavy
equipment; and (c) soils engineering. They should assist (i) DRME and
regional services heads in planning and supervising road maintenance pro-
grams; and (ii) the chief of brigades in executing road maintenance opera-
tions.
Two Mechanic/Engineers
6.        These engineers should be well qualified and should have at least
five years' experience in repairing and maintaining public works equipment.
They will help organize workshops in Dakar and in the regions and ensure
their efficient operation. They will advise DRME and the chiefs of the
regional services on matters relating to equipment. They will be assigned
to DRME headquarters and will occasionally take field trips in the regions.
Their other duties will include:
(i) implementing systematic equipment maintenance;
(ii) procuring spare parts, equipment and tools and establishing
proper storage systems;
(iii) standardizing work in the regional workshops and establishing
functional relationships between the regional workshops and the
central workshop in Dakar.



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
Reports:
7.        Consultants should prepare:
(a) monthly progress reports;
(b) a yearly project review, its accomplishments, shortcomings,
and future orientations submitted to the Government and
the Bank for their assessment;
(c) a draft and final project completion report and evaluations.



- 43 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
SENEGAL
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Study for Design of Pavement Maintenance and Strengthening Programs
Outline Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.        The Senegalese Government intends to carry out a study on systematic
methodologies for maintenance, conservation, and betterment of its paved road
network. The Government will need the services of experienced consultants to
carry out this study in collaboration with CEREEQ, the Government's soils
laboratory.
Objectives
2.        The objectives of the study are:
(i) to review the different pavement structures' capacity to
withstand present and future traffic conditions and their
adaptability to regional, topographic, climatic and geotech-
nical conditions and, if necessary, design a new set of
typical cross-sections;
(ii) to design appropriate maintenance operations for the
different pavement structures;
(iii) to prepare short- and long-term programs of pavement
resurfacing and road improvement; and
(iv) to prepare economic and engineering studies for the improvement
of roads requiring reconstruction.
Scope of Consultant Services
Phase I
3.        Consultants should carry out:
(i) an inventory of the paved road network including existing
conditions of the roads (alignment, grades, pavement
structure, and drainage, etc.);
(ii) an estimate of traffic based on the existing data (traffic
count including its composition, loads and projection);



- 44 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
(iii) an inventory of construction materials including
quantities and qualities (existing borrow pits and
quarries);
(iv) deflection tests of the existing pavements;
(v) pavement evaluation in light of the existing conditions.
Phase II
4.        They should:
(i) review the existing pavement design and construction practices
and, if necessary, design appropriate typical sets of pavement
structures;
(ii) design appropriate maintenance operations for each type of
pavement structure and regional setting;
(iii) prepare a short- and long-term program of pavement resurfacing;
(iv) prepare a program of improvement works for roads that can no
longer be economically maintained by (ii) and (iii) above.
Phase III
5.        Following agreement between the Government and the Bank, consultants
should prepare feasibility studies, detailed engineering and bidding documents
for roads that need immediate resurfacing and/or reconstruction.
A.   Feasibility Study
6.        The objective of the feasibility study is to define the optimum
economic solution for the improvement of the identified road section. The
choice will be based on a comparison of alternatives and the optimum solution
will be based primarily on:
(i) determination of the scope of the resurfacing and/or recon-
struction to be undertaken;
(ii) the technical characteristics to be given to the sections to
be reconstructed and/or resurfaced; and
(iii) the cost of executing the works.
7.        The feasibility study will include:
(a) Traffic studies. Additional traffic counts and load
distribution should be carried out on the selected road
sections. The following vehicle types should be used:



- 45 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
heavy trucks (greater than 5t load) and buses, light trucks,
vans and land rovers, and cars. For each section of road
studied, forecasts of traffic shall be established for each
five-year period during the economic life of the proposed
investments. The forecasts should be established with the
help of origin-destination surveys of typical users of the
existing corridors.
(b)  Study of road transport costs.  for each technical solution
considered, the operating costs for each type of vehicle
as well as its evolution during the economic life of the
investment will be studied. The costs of routine and
periodic maintenance will be included, as well as the costs
of resurfacing and/or reconstruction. The interrelationship
between traffic, the vehicle operating costs, maintenance
costs and the cost of reconstruction will be considered.
(c)  Technical investigations.  Consultants should undertake
all pertinent topographic, soils, and hydrological
surveys and testing of the performance of the existing
pavement to determine new technical characteristics of
the identified road sections. All bridges and drainage
structures to be repaired or reconstructed will also be
examined and the necessary works defined. The documents
necessary for the execution of these works will be
prepared, including investigations for foundation studies
and hydrological surveys for drainage works. The consultants
should also study with special attention the materials best
adapted for the construction of the subgrade, sub-base, the
base and wearing courses. They should identify and carefully
evaluate the quality and quantity of materials of the borrow
pits and rock quarries within economical hauling distance of
the road. They should also, if necessary, carry out soils
surveys and identify quarries and borrow pits for road main-
tenance in the regions where these needs are identified in
Phase I.
(d) Economic comparison of the solutions examined. To define
the economically most advantageous solution, a comparison
will be made of the total transport costs on the road
(including all vehicle operating costs) for the economic
life of the proposed investment, as well as the costs of
investments and maintenance associated with the different
solutions considered. The comparison is to determine the
optimum technical characteristics as well as the timing of
the investment. Normal, generated and diverted (if foreseen)
traffic will be separately identified. Other benefits to be
quantified are: the economic savings due to time-savings for
the transport of high-value goods, and reduction in spoilage
of perishable goods.



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4
8.        The various solutions will be compared to a reference solution,
which is defined as the continued use of the existing road, on its present
alignment, without major investments and with maintenance as required. The
economic rate of return and the net present value using a 12% C ;count rate
will be determined for each solution, as well as the first-year return (com-
parison of costs to benefits the first year after completion). A sensitivity
analysis will be performed to account for uncertainty in any of the cost and
benefit parameters entering into the calculation. Any possible interdependence
among the variables should be considered.
9.        The costs to be taken into account are economic costs, i.e., net of
taxes and adjusted to reflect the scarcity or surplus of the resource.
B.   Detailed Engineering and Bidding Documents
10.       This step will include the preparation of detailed engineering, cost
estimates and bidding documents for the works selected by the Government on
the basis of the feasibility studies' recommendations. It will include the
final detailed topographic surveys and geotechnical studies to complement the
work done during feasibility studies as well as the staking of the road center
line and structures with permanent references.
11.       The bidding documents will be prepared for international competitive
bidding with prequalification of contractors, in accordance with the Guidelines
Concerning Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits. The consultants
will recommend the grouping of the contract works according to the directives
of the Government.
12.       As soon as the necessary elements for the detailed definition of the
works are shown, the consultants will prepare a prequalification dossier. It
will include an invitation to apply for prequalification as well as a brief
descriptive notice on the nature of the works. The consultants will also pre-
pare the newspaper publicity and the circulars for informing the embassies of
Bank member countries and Switzerland.
13.       The bidding documents shall include:
(a) all sections necessary for staking the road centerline, cross-
sections and grades and for construction of sub-grades, base
course, ditches, shoulders and the pavement, as well as for
all drainage structures and bridges and the associated
equipment fitting;
(b) the general conditions of contract, especially concerning
the rules about performance bond, price adjustment, insurance
to be provided and advance payments;
(c) the special conditions of contract, including the technical
specifications of the construction methods and materials
and the control and measurements procedures;



- 47 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5
(d) schedule of unit prices; and
(e) the quantity estimate.
14.       Consultants should also prepare a confidential report which
should comprise the detailed cost estimate, broken down into foreign
costs, local costs and taxes. The foreign cost will include, in particular,
the following: depreciation of imported equipment, imported materials and
supplies, salaries and benefits for expatriate personnel, overheads and
profits of the contractor, as well as the main foreign exchange cost of
goods produced in Senegal which are used in the project.
15.       Consultants should subcontract all soil studies to CEREEQ as
required by the Government.



- 48 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
SENEGAL
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of Paved Roads to be Strengthened and Rehabilitated
1.        The road sections targeted for improvement all present typical
characteristics of pavement structural failures. In some cases, the dete-
riorations have reached and contaminated the subgrades. The improvements
proposed consist of construction of new pavements involving strengthening
the subgrades in some cases. These improvements are designed to extend the
life expectancy of these roads by 15 years with resurfacing 7 to 8 years
after the construction.
2.        The following paragraphs present the existing conditions, proposed
improvements, and improvement costs of each road section.
3.        Dakar-Rufisque (4.6 km)
Traffic volume on this road is 9,500 vpd (1977). This road section
is 30 years old and has a 13 m wide platform with a 9 m wide asphalt concrete
wearing course laid on a 22-23 cm macadam base. The pavement, laid on natural
terrain or light fill, is badly distorted and cracked due to an unstable founda-
tion with drainage problems. The improvements proposed will consist of: (i)
construction on existing pavement of a new 27.5 cm laterite base, covered with
4 cm asphalt concrete wearing course 9.75 m wide; (ii) improving drainage
facilities; and (iii) regraveling of shoulders. These works are expected to
cost (excluding contingencies) about US$1.9 million, including taxes.
4.        Diam Niadio-N'Diase (15 km)
This road carries 2,150 vpd (1977). It is 27 years old and has a
platform 8 to 12 m wide with an asphalt concrete wearing course 6 m wide on
average laid on a 10 cm laterite base. The pavement, laid on natural terrain
or light fill, is cracked and distorted due to lack of adequate drainage
facilities. The improvements proposed will consist of: (i) construction on
existing pavement of 25 cm cement stabilized laterite base on the first 3 km,
and 15 cm of the same material on the next 12 km both covered with 4 cm asphalt
concrete wearing course, 6 m wide; (ii) improvement of drainage facilities;
and (iii) regravelling of shoulders. The works will cost (excluding contin-
gencies) about US$1.9 million.
5.        Nguekokh-Mbour (4.6 km)
Traffic volume on this road is 2,150 vpd (1977). This road is 27
years old and has a platform 10 m wide, with a 6 m wide asphalt concrete wear-
ing course laid on 30 cm laterite base. The pavement, laid on natural terrain
or light fill is distorted, cracked, riddled with potholes, and has washed-
away shoulders.  The proposed improvements consist of:  (i) construction on
the existing pavement of a new 12 cm cement stabilized laterite base, covered



- 49 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
with 4 cm asphalt concrete wearing course 6 m wide; (ii) improvement of
drainage facilities; and (iii) regravelling of shoulders. The works are
expected to cost (excluding contingencies) US$0.52 million, including taxes.
6.        Sebikotane-Thies (21.7 km)
This road carries 4,500 vpd (1977).  It is 29 years old and has a
platform 13 m wide, on average, with a 9 m wide repeated surface treatment
wearing course laid on a 10 m macadam base. The pavement, laid mostly on
natural terrain, is distorted and cracked, with badly maintained drainage
facilities. The proposed improvements consist of: (i) constructing on
existing pavement a new 27.5 cm cement stabilized laterite base on the first
6.4 km, and 20 cm of the same material on the remaining 15.2 km, both covered
with 4 cm asphalt concrete wearing course, 9.75 m wide; (ii) improvement of
drainage facilities; and (iii) regravelling of shoulders. The works should
cost (excluding contingencies) about US$4.9 million, including taxes.
7.        Fatick-Kaolack (42 km)
Traffic volume on this road is 1,750 vpd (1977). This road is 25
years old and has a platform of 8 to 10.5 m, with an average of 6 m wide sur-
face treated wearing course, laid on 11.0 cm asphalt stabilized clayey sand
base. The pavement, laid mostly on a fill 0.5 to 1.5 m high, is distorted and
cracked, shoulders are washed away, and the embankment is badly eroded. The
proposed improvements consist of: (i) rebuilding the fill; (ii) construction
on existing pavement of a new 12 cm asphalt stabilized clayey sand base cov-
ered with 3.5 cm asphalt concrete wearing course, 7 m wide; and (iii) improv-
ing drainage structures and regravelling of shoulders. The works are expected
to cost (excluding contingencies) about US$11.8 million including taxes.
8.        Kaolack-Passy (8.1 km)
This road carries 570 vpd (1977). It is 15 years old and has a
platform 7 to 8.5 meters, with an average 5.5 m wide asphalt surface treated
wearing course, laid on 15 cm laterite base. The pavement, laid on natural
terrain or a light fill, is riddled with potholes, distorted and cracked. The
proposed improvements consist of: (i) reconstruction on existing pavement of
a new 12 cm cement stabilized laterite base covered with a double asphalt sur-
face treatment, 6 m wide; and (ii) improvement of drainage facilities and
regravelling of shoulders. The works should cost (excluding contingencies)
about US$0.55 million, including taxes.
9.        Passy-Sokone (17.5 km)
Traffic volume on this road is 500 vpd (1977). This road is 15
years old and has a platform 8 to 8.5 m wide, with an average 5.35 m wide
double asphalt surface treatment, laid on 19 cm cement stabilized laterite
base. The pavement, laid mostly on natural terrain, is distorted and cracked,
with badly maintained drainage facilities. The proposed improvements consist
of: (i) construction on existing pavement of a new 12 cm cement stabilized



- 50 -
AINEX 7
Page 3
laterite base covered with a double asphalt surface treatment 6 m wide; and
(ii) improvement of drainage facilities and regravelling of shoulders. The
works would cost, excluding contingencies, about US$1.8 million, including
taxes.
10.       Sokone-Karang (11.4 km)
This road carries 430 vpd (1977). It is 15 years old and has a
platform 7.4 m to 8.3 m wide, with an average 5.35 m wide double asphalt
surface treatment, laid on 16 cm cement treated laterite base. The pave-
ment, laid mostly on natural terrain, is riddled with potholes, distorted
and cracked; drainage facilities are badly maintained, and shoulders are
washed away.   It is still apparent that the pavement has been resurfaced
lately. The proposed improvements consist of: (i) construction on existing
pavement of a new 12 cm cement stabilized base, covered with a double asphalt
surface treatment wearing course, 6 m wide; and (ii) improvement of drainage
facilities and regravelling of shoulders. The works are expected to cost,
excluding contingencies, about US$0.42 million, including taxes.
11.       Kaffrine-Mbacke (35.3 km)
Traffic volume on this road is 200 vpd. This road is 13 years old
and has a platform 8.5 m to 10 m wide, with an average 5.70 m wide asphalt
surface treatment laid on 15 cm laterite base. The pavement, laid on mostly
natural terrain, is riddled with potholes, distorted and cracked due to lack
of maintenance and settlement of the sub-grade. The proposed improvements
consist of: (i) construction on existing pavement of a new 15 cm cement
stabilized laterite base covered with a double asphalt surface treatment,
6 m wide; and (ii) improvement of drainage facilities and regravelling of
shoulders. The works should cost (excluding contingencies) about US$4.4
million, including taxes.
12.       St. Louis-Ross-Bethio (40.0 km)
This road carries 960 vpd (1977). It is 14 years old and has a
platform 8 m to 9 m wide, with a a 5 m to 5.5 m asphalt surface treatment
laid on a 12 cm to 15 cm of base shore shells material. This road is built
mostly on fill of 1.0 m to 1.5 m high across a terrain which floods during
the dry season. The fill is badly eroded and the pavement is distorted and
cracked. The proposed improvements consist of: (i) rebuilding the embankment;
(ii) construction on the existing pavement of a new 12 cm cement stabilized
base covered with 3.5 cm asphalt concrete wearing course, 6 m wide; and
(iii) improvement of drainage facilities and regravelling of shoulders.  The
works are expected to cost, excluding contingencies, about US$5.45 million,
including taxes.



- 51 -                                               ANNEX 8
SENEGAL
PROPOSED FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost 1/
-------------Us$ 000 --
Foreign
as % of
Total     Total      Total
Net of   Including   Net of
Taxes     Local    Foreign    Taxes       Taxes     Taxes
A.  Training Program                                       262     1,709      3.042     4,751       56B13
Materials and Supplies                                262        157        889     1,046       1,308      85
Materials and Supplies                           8        143       808        951      1,189       85
Price contingencies (10%)                       24         14        81         95        119       85
Technical Assistance and Fellowships                    0      1,552     2,153      3,705       3,705      60
a)  Technical assistance                             0        315     1,785      2,100      2,100       85
b)  Fellowships abroad                               0          0       100        100         100     100
c)  Fellowships, local training                      0     1,190          0      1,190      1,190        0
Price contingencies on (a) (15%)                     0         47       268        315         315      85
B.  Technical Assistance for Road Maintenance                0       183      1,036     1,219       1,219      85
Technical assistance                                    0        159       901      1,060       1,060      85
Price contingencies 15%                                 0         24        135       159         159      85
C.  Improvement of 200 km of Primary Paved Roads        9.229      9 608    29.254    3            48,091       75
a)  Construction Works                              9,179      9,179    27,536    36.715      45,894       75
Construction                                 7,194     7,194    21,579    28,773       35,967       75
Physical contingencies (10%)                   719       719      2,158     2,877       3,596       75
Price contingencies (16%)                    1,266     1,266      3,799     5,065       6,331       75
b)  Construction Supervision                           50 2/    429      1 718      2 147      2,197       80
Supervision                                     42                T           . 52  l ,0  1,962
Price contingencies (U3%)                        8        49        198        247        255       80
D.  CEREEQ                                                 49         70        543       613         662      89
Construction Offices                                   49         49       146        195         244      75
Construction                                        39         40f      117        157        196       75
Physical contingencies (10%)                         4          4        12         16          20      75
Price contingencies (13%)                            6          5        17         22         28       75
Equipment                                               0         21       397        418        418       95
Equipment                                            O         19       361        380        380       95
Price contingencies (10%)                            0          2        36         38         38       95
E.  Preinvestment Studies                                  25 2/    231        924      1,155      1,180       80
Studies                                                22       201        803      1,004      1,026       80
Price contingencies (15%)                               3         30       121.       151        154       80
E.  Construction of the Louga-Dahra Road                3,053      3 190     9,725    12,915      15,968       75
Construction Works                                  3,037     3,037      9,113    12,150      15,187       75
Construction                                     2,401     2,401      7,204     9,605      12,006       75
Physical contingencies (10%)                       240        240       720        960      1,200       75
Price contingencies (15%)                          396       396      1,189      1,585      1,981       75
Construction Supervision                               16 -V    153        612        765        781       80
Supervision                                         14       133        532        665         79       80
Price contingencies (15%)                            2         20        80        100        102       80
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                 12,618    14,991    44,524    59.515       72.133        -
Of which:
Base cost                                9,950    12,175    35,710    47,885       57,835        75
Physical contingencies                     963        963     2,890      3,853       4,816       75
Price contingencies                      1,705      1,853     5,924      7,777       9,482       76
1/ At an exchange rate of US$1 = 210 CFAF, as of January 1980
2/ Taxes levied on CEREEQ
December 7, 1979



SENEGAL
FOURTH HIG'HWAY PROJECT
Highlights of the Eoonnic Evalution of itr-ngth-ing Paved Roads
Roior- 1      Diem 810dm-         RNehokth-        Sehihotane-        Patich-         Ka-lach-        Pans.Y-       Snknne.          Mboohe-         Coinbane-            St Lools-
Poro...tnr                               Unit           Rufioque             N dians           M'hnwr            Thie-           KanSack           P .nY         Schone         Karane           D308              Gitbo           loss Bnthin
Length of Section                                         Rn                4-6              15.0               4.6              21.7             42.0            8.1            17.5           h114          -----35.3 -----40.0
1977 Traffic 1 1977-90 growth rote)
Act ...oblls                                    AAD1T 17)         4,631(4.5)        1,245(6.0)        1,245(6.0         2,537(7.0)          835(5.0)      34712.5          297(2.5)      29612.5)       129(h.6)            69(6.6)           459(7.8)
Light Truks                                     AA.8 (T           1,137(4.5)          22h(6.1)          226,(6.1)         458(6.9)          244(3.9)      130(2.5)        131(2.5        3100(2.5)      28113.7)          510(7.2)            260(7.9)
Hone ..                                          ADS (7.          1,94214.5)          377(5.2)          377(5.2)          772) 7.2)         34015.5)       58(2.5)         45(2.5)         13(2.5)       11(5.2)             6(5.2)            4917.61
Tr..cic                                         AART (7.            884(4.5)          205(6.2)          205(6.2)          3R1(6.6)          240(6.4)       22(4.1)          37(4.1)        23(4.1)       30(4.1)             7(4.1)             78(h. 7)
T-ator/Troile-                                  dADT 17.            948(4.5)           91(5.5)           91(5.5)          404(7.3)           9317.0)         910)            5(0)           310)         3514.1)             3(4.1)            1180 .2)
555TAL                                          AADT (7.)         9,142(4.5)        2,144(5.9)        2,144(5.9)        4,552(7.0)       1,752(7.0)       57412.5)        511(2.6)       435(2.6)       4861h.7)           195(6.9)           964(7.7)
nV.ement Eno-tted to be Ruined                          Ymoc            1980-81           19803-83           1980-83           1980-07          1980-83         1980-83         1980-83        1980-83        ----1980-83 -----5980-81
Construction Gnat
PFino-. loF1PM  Millions                                            410               404               117             1,090            2,595            239              400            254            -----924-------3,95
ic--nic                                      1PM' Millions          335               327                94               880            2,100            172              318           102             -----732 ------951
First Sear Benf its 2                               FAP Millions         1l1                137                37               493              693             36              57             36            -----102 ------219
late of Retur
FietltcYoc                                        %1                 33                42                 39                56               33             21              18             is------  14 ------23
Interoal                                          %/                 37                52                52                 60              42             22              23             18            ------15 ------33
iote of Retur  A-eunig  no
Ioproce-nt in Maintec-c  P-oci-e                        7.8                                  38                40                18               25              4               4            <0             ------<0-----                          20
iEn-oi  Role                                                           Solo coot-wot trave  coridor consnting Dahur with fnu  regions (Tie-                     Primar.y rod 1ith hetwee  Dahor and          Ent-reiona1l inkh                  Solo rood to
lion  loom, Eatstrn Senega, and Cneno-o).  MaIn grondnut  -acutton                      Blojut(eni)  groundnut                        serving        . gsdot ara         Senegal Rlicer
rote.                                                                                   ea to    ot.                                                                     Ve11leY and
Maurit-ol-
1/ Annoing nsnntoof the pocui1ni D.khn-Tho-   ncpn.....oy on propned hy the Gioann-nt; Internl  oon-ic retur  eetinoted to he  )60I    if -np-enoy not cotrnt-td.
7   -1iolden V5G and maneac   ot saningo us di- ...snd in teut.
Note-   All coats and Re-efits at 1978 price; project lif  15 yearn; e-ai-tiu-a.enme- cu-tr-ti- tahe- pian  in 1980, with he-ofits accring 1981-95;
Detail nay our odd to total due to rounding.
Sourne: Louis Rrg-r and Mission



- 53 -                                  ANNEX 10
SENEGAL
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents Available in the Project File
1. Louis Berger - Actualisation des Etudes de 82 km de Routes relative a la
Determination et Etude d'un Programme de 120 km de Routes:
Rapport, December 9, 1977
Note Redigee par la Division des Routes, December 12, 1977.
2. Louis Berger - Determination et Etude d'un Programme de 120 km de Routes
Bitumineuses a Renforcer, October 1977.
3. Louis Berger - Appels d'Offres pour un Projet de Renforcement de 200 km de
Routes Bitumees, June 1978.
4. Louis Berger - Programme Quadrennal de l'Entretien Routier, various reports.
5. Louis Berger/Union Mondiale ORT - Etude des Besoins en Formation du Personnel
de la Direction des Travaux et des Entreprises
de Genie Civile, August 1978.
6.  Union Mondiale ORT - Rapport d'Evaluation en vue de la Formation du Personnel
des Travaux Publics, January 1979.
7.  SETEC International - Amenagement de la Route Louga-Dahra
Phase 1: Etude de Factibilite, Rapport Preliminaire,
November 1977.
Phase 1: Etude de Factibilite, Rapport de Synthese Final,
November 1978.
Phase 2: Dossier Provisoire d' Appel d'Offres (5 Volumes),
March 1979.



I
I



SENEGAL
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF EQUIPMENT
| MINISTER OF EQUIPMENT          H
I  I
DIRECTOR OF        DIRECTOR GENERAL
INSPECTOR        ADMINISTRATION      OF HYDRAULiCS AND           DIRECTOR GENERAL         DIRECTOR OF
GENERAL          PERSONNEL AND      RURAL DEVELOPMENT             OF TRANSPORTS          METEOROLOGY          DING
ACCOUNTING
DIRECTOR GENERAL
OF PUBLICWORKS
ADMINISTRATIVE                                   TRAINING CENTER
AND FINANCiL                                      AND TECHNICAL
AFFAIRS                                           AFFAIRS
i DIRECTOR OF         |    DIRECTOR OFn              IETRO 
ROAD MAINTENANCE            STUDIES AND              DICORUOF
AND EQUIPMENT            PROGRAMMING            RODCNTUTO
|                 Rt v\ AL  n  s  SREGIONALSERVICES 
U- LW   Bank-20373
z z  w Z  w z    < < Z  z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ WcG an  237



I



SENEGAL                                                    S.                             M  A  U  R  i T A  N  t A                                                                                                          Al                 byo
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                          ,, ''
MAIN ROAD~ NETWORK                                                                                                                                                   C            - 
PAVED ROADS TO BE IMPROVED UNDER PROJE T                                                                                                                                                       sEN [A  *' t   NOAMAPeSif;
ROADS STRENGTHENED UNDER CREDIT 366 AN                             V.Gvsneo.Eiso                                                                                                                             ' N                 r
LOAN 1222
PAVED ROADS                                                                                                                                        ..  Nrre,                                                                                       /0A
A-          PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCT]ON                                                                                                                                                                   S E  L  ... I    t/-w l-n 
GRAVEL RIOADS                                                                                                                                                                                            Liber,Nk,
EARTH ROADS                                                                                                                                                                               A /     t i
-I-I-I RAILROADS                                 i         /         Jq                                                                                                                                                                                 NuP'-  S
---RIVERS                                                 g ll 59. Ouosg        2   i'r\
INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES              0                     Ce/-
b......_Med    5,o                                                                                                  v>                                f- ---             ....   ..              .  ++
DASARZ vfoqou NoustyX                                                                                                         XNomr 0 y  0006 "0                                              '
M b.y.ek  P.,str>ocE                     8.>Bb.-G-rcg.    J2dd2           Doo B.ogo. 
14~      0      9 ~C LA   IO  5011-  oMb,r g                                                                  TfT j 5 '-
.  -#53q  -c3DTo0)M5udr XCpCkSh  boOi    N'gudu    ._   N'dXareneBambrni do_                                                                   '   * IO .O1s
;1  rDK=on k                               D....lrzss                                                                                            Kid ,obo
9; t;  -0                                             k           X            n         d .:                      <                           < n.,                          M             L
j  (/S > Kf   dadiouTaubaMorlcound  }                       < eltn   oro                 <                      Nlekkole*06rit<Moko                               DEPOSITS      )~~~~~~~~~~~~~DPOSIT
M ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~MA
O     10   20  30   4050 SO   ASi                                                                                (ol.                   (KourrabgO    ToogooaO    t>                                                                     <ao 
Cop~~~ ~ SedhlioS,' Sadner  Te.n -usbdu a- our2                                                                              |                            S Ir-t                 .                                      -\
10  20 30 40 50 AS 75u H80 pO0                                  FHhOO  . Csosndin,Av                   S,4    THoo       .         OAdO    .O!Poko a ar oo
___________________________'-                         G ,   INEAprlsAU -   River               -                            '>i r
u  A                                                                             r



