Document of
The World Bank  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-269 la-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
February 28, 1980
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their ofikil duies. Its eontents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriatlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:       CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00           =  CFAF 210
CFAF 1 million    =  US$4,762
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 meter (m)                 =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2 )        = 10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASECNA    -    Agence pour la Securite de la Navigation Aerienne
en Afrique et a Madagascar
CEREEQ    -    Centre Experimental de Recherches et d'Etudes pour
l'Equipement
GDOT      -    General Directorate of Transport
DER       -    Road Maintenance Division
DRC       -    Directorate of Road Construction
DRME      -    Directorate of Road Maintenance and Equipment
DSP       -    Directorate of Studies and Programming
FED       -    European Development Fund
GDPW      -    General Directorate of Public Works
GNP       -    Gross National Product
ME        -    Ministry of Equipment
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
MOP       -    Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
OECF      -    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
ONCAD     -    Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance
au Developpement
PAD       -    Port Autonome de Dakar
PCM       -    Central Equipment Division
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
vpd       -    vehicles per day
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan, Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Senegal
Amount:         Credit:   US$ 28 million equivalent
Loan:     US$ 10 million equivalent
Terms:          Credit: standard
Loan: 20 years including 5 years of grace with interest
at 8.25 percent p.a.
Project Description: The major objective of the project is to increase Govern-
ment's capacity to keep the road system in adequate
condition, in particular, to train technicians and
selected staff, to improve road work planning and pro-
gramming capacity and to rehabilitate and upgrade impor-
tant road sections. The project would consist of the
following components: (a) a three-year training program
for road maintenance staff; (b) a two-and-a-half year
technical assistance program for road maintenance execu-
tion; (c) upgrading of the Government's soils laboratory
to strengthen its participation in road maintenance
activities; (d) design of proper and systematic pavement
maintenance and strengthening programs; (e) strengthen-
ing and rehabilitation of about 200 km of primary paved
roads; and (f) construction of the Louga-Dahra road
(about 85 km) to two-lane, paved standards.
Benefits and Risks: The main benefit of the project will be its institutional
impact; even before its start, the Government has taken
steps towards ensuring its success: reorganization of the
public works maintenance department, establishment of a
permanent training center, and provision of adequate funds
and disbursement procedures for road maintenance. The main
quantifiable benefits are savings in vehicle operating
costs from a better maintained, partly upgraded, road
network. The project will have widespread beneficiaries.
The project faces no special risks.
This docufnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Estimated Cost:                               Foreign   Local   Total
…---US$-000--------
Training Program                         2,693    1,648   4,341
Technical Assistance for Road
Maintenance                             901       159   1,060
Soils Laboratory Upgrading                 478        59      537
Road Maintenance and Strengthening
Studies                                 803       201   1,004
Improvement of 200 km Paved
Roads                                23,099    7,574  30,673
Louga-Dahra (about 85 km) Road
Construction                          7,736    2,534  10,270
Total Base Cost                    35,710   12,175  47,885
Physical Contingencies              2,890       963   3,853
Price Contingencies                 5,924    1,853   7,777
Total Project Cost            44,524   14,991  59,515
(Net of Taxes)
Financing Plan                               Foreign   Local   Total
--------US$'000 …_______
IDA/IBRD                                34,800    3,200  38,000
OECF (Japan)                             9,700    3,200  12,900
Government (14% of total)                     0    8,600   8,600
44,500   15,000  59,500
Estimated Disbursements:               FY81    FY82   FY83   FY84
--------US$ million-------
Annual                          6      10      11     11
Cumulative                      6      16      27     38
Rate of Return:            About 30 percent average
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2515a-SE, dated  February 13, 1980
Map: IBRD No. 11900RI:    Senegal road network



- 3 -
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOIDMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
AND A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$10 million and a proposed development credit
for the equivalent of US$28 million to the Republic of Senegal to help
finance a Fourth Highway Project. The Loan would have a term of 20 years
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum and the
Development Credit would be on standard IDA terms (the blend will have a grant
element of 64 percent). The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan
would co-finance the project on a parallel basis with a loan of Yen 2.5
billion (US$12.9 million equivalent) for the construction of the Louga-Dahra
road. The OECF loan, already signed and effective, has a term of 30 years
including 10 years of grace, with interest at 3.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Economy of Senegal" (212-SE) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on September 10, 1973. Since
then, a series of preparatory sector missions, a basic economic mission,
and most recently a public finance mission and an updating economic mission
have visited Senegal to update the macroeconomic data base and to review the
country's development strategy. The following paragraphs reflect the findings
of these missions, whose conclusions will be included in a basic economic
report now being finalized. Updated country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Senegal, at the western extreme of the African continent, has
three-quarters of its territory in the Sahel zone which suffers from low
rainfall and periodic droughts. In the traditional sector of the economy,
the mainstay is millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundnut cultivation for exports. Soils are generally poor,
and periodically food shortages occur in the months between the sowing and
harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins -- some of them fed in
the tropical rain zone -- have so far been exploited only marginally. Land
distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country arable land
is becoming scarce, but in the extreme southeast some good land is still
available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar, the
capital, a city of about one million inhabitants, the economic base of which
consists of excellent port facilities, an important industrial sector, and a



- 4 -
small but fast-growing tourism industry. Senegal's per capita GNP for 1978
was estimated at US$340.
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stag-
nation as real output increased at about the same pace as population, at
a rate estimated at 2.7 percent per annum. Two factors were responsible for
this situation. Firstly, with independence, Senegal lost its privileged
position as the center of French West Africa, and subsequently had to adapt to
its reduced economic, administrative, and political position. Secondly, in
the latter part of the decade, production of groundnuts (its principal export)
fell due to unfavorable weather and declining export prices.
5.        In the 1970s, Senegal's narrow-based export sector was hit by sharp
fluctuations in volumes and prices, and even with the achievement of higher
rates of both private and public investment, average annual growth was not
raised above the earlier 10 years' level. Thus, output and incomes were
depressed in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought in over a
century, which brought a decline in real national income. Thereafter, when
weather conditions improved and purchasing power of the rural population was
substantially restored, both agricultural and industrial production increased
markedly. However, in 1977 the country suffered another severe drought, the
magnitude of which is reflected in the variations in groundnut crops; from a
historical record of 1.45 million tons in 1975/76 (more than double the
average for the 1968-73 period), output fell to less than 0.6 million tons
in 1977/78; it recovered to about 1.0 million tons in 1978/79, but the
most recent crop fell again, to less than 0.7 million tons. Despite these
wide fluctuations in agricultural production, industrial output (excluding
groundnut processing) did grow at a fairly even rate of about 5 percent a
year. Thanks to the recovery from the earlier droughts, real GDP increased
at about 5 percent between 1973 and 1977, but in 1978 it is estimated to have
declined by 10 percent reflecting the effect of the 1977/78 drought, and,
after recovery in 1979, is expected in 1980 to remain about 4 percent below
its 1977 level due to the bad crops in 1979/80.
6.        The large fluctuations in physical production were aggravated by
price fluctuations of Senegal's major export and import commodities. In 1974,
the terms of trade improved by over 21 percent, because of exceptionally
high prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity. However,
in 1975 export prices for both phosphate rock and groundnuts declined sharply.
The recent hike in oil prices brought a further deterioration in terms of
trade, causing a loss in income of roughly 5 percent of GDP compared to the
favorable year in 1974. These wide international price fluctuations, together
with the above fluctuations in output, had serious consequences on domestic
prices, public finance, and balance of payments.
Public Finance
7.        The Government has responded with flexibility in adapting its
financial policies to changes in the economic environment. In 1974, the



- 5 -
the retail prices for rice, sugar, and groundnut oil were raised by 40 to 90
percent in order to reduce consumer subsidies that had ballooned following the
price hikes for these commodities on the world market. Government also
brought producer prices for groundnuts closer to world prices which were
particularly high at that time. The loss of revenue to the Treasury because
of this latter step was expected to be compensated by additional revenues from
the phosphate mine, in which Government increased its participation as well as
levied an 80 percent tax on excess profits, which accrued from the quadrupling
of export prices of phosphates in 1974. In 1974 and 1975, Government did
indeed receive high revenues from phosphates amounting to roughly US$45
million a year, or 12 percent of tax receipts.
8.        These steps led to a net increase in public savings after debt
service from a yearly average of US$25 million during 1971-73, to US$46
million during 1974-76. This high level of public savings was doubtless an
important factor in stimulating Government to increase public investment
outlays from a yearly average of US$24 million to US$49 million during the
same two periods. In addition, however, Government purchases of equity and
lending to domestic enterprises increased sharply, mainly because of increased
participation in the phosphate mine and the acquisition of two foreign-owned
public utility companies. The combined capital outlays of the Government were
thus substantially in excess of public savings, and were financed in large
part through medium-term foreign bank loans. As a consequence, foreign debt
service carried by the Central Government increased from US$8 million in
1972/73 to US$38 million in 1975/76, representing about 10 percent of Central
Government revenues.
9.        A sudden fall in world phosphate prices in 1976 eliminated Govern-
ment revenues from this source. In the following year, Government increased
taxes, limited recurrent expenditures, and undertook some new commercial
borrowing for its investment program. When it became clear that the 1977/78
crop would fail, Government endeavored to avoid famine in the countryside by
importing more cereals and absolving farmers' debts; however, the added
financial burden which these measures entailed was accompained by reductions
in capital expenditures, which were financed through heavy commercial borrowing
amounting to US$122 million in 1977 and US$200 million in 1978. As a conse-
quence, in 1980/81, when grace periods are over, debt service obligations of
the budget will reach about US$150 million (or 18 percent of Government
revenues).
10.       In August 1978, the National Assembly was called from summer recess
to approve a new fiscal package amounting to US$20 million in additional
revenues. The 1978/79 budget presented a tax reform that aimed at removal of
tariff distortions and administrative deficiencies, but which also increased
Government receipts through reductions in exemptions. Further tax measures
are in preparation for the 1980/81 budget which will bring the ratio of
Government receipts to GDP to 29 percent, as compared to 19 percent in 1970/71
and 23 percent in 1976/77.



-6-
Balance of Payments
11.       The balance of payments came under heavy pressure in 1973 because
of low groundnut exports and increasing imports of foodstuffs and equipment
goods, and Senegal's net foreign assets fell to minus US$15 million.
In the following years, the deficit on current account was reduced, but
outflows of private capital related to the acquisition of foreign enterprises
continued, and net foreign assets declined further to minus US$48 million at
the end of 1975. Since then, the situation has not improved. In 1976, the
State Marketing Board purchased a record groundnut crop at the high producer
prices established in 1974, injecting massive purchasing power into the
economy and adding to the domestic demand resulting from the Government's
monetary and budgetary policies, which in turn put added pressure on imports.
However, because both groundnut and phosphate prices were at considerably
lower levels in 1976, export revenues stagnated; even though there were price
declines of the same order in some of Senegal's food imports, the net effect
on the terms of trade was heavily negative. Although the 1976/77 groundnut
crop was good, the balance of payments stayed in deficit. The 1977/78 drought
caused a loss of US$200 million in groundnut revenues, but the Government's
commercial borrowing limited the decline of net foreign assets to US$93
million. In 1979, the groundnut crop was good and Senegal received an alloca-
tion from the EEC STABEX Fund of US$64 million, but strong import demand,
the terms of trade loss from the hike in oil prices, and the fall in groundnut
prices, led to a further decline in net foreign assets of at least US$90
million, reducing the level of these assets to minus US$236 million at the end
of the year. These negative reserves were financed by outstanding drawings
on the DMF in an amount of US$52 million, by a change in Senegal's position in
the monetary union, and through short-term foreign borrowing by the commercial
banks.
12.       Although exogenous factors such as droughts and variations in world
market prices explain in part the fall in net foreign assets since 1973,
it is also due to more perennial factors such as sluggish growth of export
volumes, slow drawings on public aid commitments, increasing debt service
related to heavy reliance on commercial funds, and excessively expansionary
monetary and budgetary policies. Senegal's basic problem has been the failure
of production and exports to respond to higher investment levels and other
expansionary policies.
Stabilization Program
13.       In December 1979, during his annual speech to the National Assembly,
the Prime Minister explained the urgency of modifying prevailing tendencies
in the economy, and outlined a medium-term rehabilitation and stabilization
program. This program was informally but extensively discussed with and
broadly supported by the Bank and the Fund. The main objectives are to
increase substantially the level of domestic savings, especially in the public
sector, over a period of six years, with the first two years focussing mainly
on stabilization, and the following four years (which would coincide with the
Sixth Four-Year Plan) on the achievement of a still modestly higher rate of
economic growth of 4 percent a year.



- 7 -
14.       According to the stabilization plan, public savings after debt
service would increase from 1 percent of GDP in 1978/79 to 3.5 percent of GDP
in 1985, mainly through a freeze of recurrent expenditures in real terms. Any
shortfalls below this target are to be compensated by new tax measures and
increased savings from public entities such as the stabilization fund. This
savings target would allow the Treasury to contribute at least 15 percent to
financing of the public investment program in the near future, to be improved
to 25 percent by 1985. The 15 percent minimum contribution serves a planning
function and is likely to be exceeded in favorable years, but may fall short
in unfavorable years, such as in 1977/78 when it dropped to a negative level.
In such cases, the additional requirements in foreign finance should be on
concessionary terms.
15.       Increased savings in the private sector would be encouraged by
higher interest rates on deposits and savings certificates, and through the
allocation of cheap housing loans based on earlier savings performance. In
rural areas, the savings of farmers will be mobilized. However, the bulk of
private savings will have to come from private enterprises. To achieve this
goal, the Government proposes to ease price policies and reduce profit taxes;
to induce more private investment, levies on non-invested profits will be
substantially increased. A very tight credit policy, in particular for
non-productive projects, will evidently increase the need for own funds in the
private sector.
16.       Recognizing that the savings drive will weaken domestic demand and
that production costs in Senegal are too high to meet foreign competition,
the Government is taking steps to provide more protection to the domestic
producers by raising import duties while achieving greater uniformity in their
application, and by subsidizing export industries with excess capacity. This
policy allows for the fact that parity of the local currency is fixed in the
framework of the monetary union to which Senegal belongs and that the CFA
franc has de facto appreciated over time relative to most non-franc curren-
cies, especially the dollar.
17.       The para-public sector--which represents a serious drain on Gov-
ernment finances--will be placed on a sounder footing through the conclusion
of medium-term program contracts between the Ministry of Finance and individual
para-public enterprises, with the aim to reduce present levels of budget
support. More scope will be given to these enterprises to adjust tariffs to
more economical levels.
18.       The stabilization program imposes ceilings to commercial borrowing
abroad and restricts its use to projects that generate a sufficient cash flow
to service such debt, and abolishes Government guarantees on loans to private
and mixed enterprises unless such guarantees are required by the statutes of
the lending institution. These measures will bring a highly desirable reduc-
tion in Government's exposure to commercial risks.
19.       To achieve the objectives of the stabilization plan, a recent
administrative reform has placed all public finance functions under the
Minister of Finance. Of particular importance is the centralization of debt
management (previously a responsibility split between the Minister of Finance
and the Prime Minister), which will have its own tax resources and bank
account, and an improved system of financial planning and control.



- 8 -
20.       The trend in wages in the modern sector remains a matter of some
concern. After sizable wage increases in 1979, Government decided as of
January 1, 1980 to raise the minimum wage by 25 percent; and Government
salaries were increased from 34.4 percent for the lowest paid workers to 3.6
percent for the highest paid, to be followed by another increase of 7 percent
as of July 1. These increases are meant to compensate for past inflation
and to cushion the effect on real incomes of the stabilization measures;
however, they are relatively large and may lead to excessive inflationary
pressure.
Prospects
21.       The Government's long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the promotion and diversification of agriculture and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for development of areas less
afflicted by drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal), where cash crops other
than groundnuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed
in the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. This policy
will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of its climate and
world market prices, and reduce the heavy burden of food imports. To stimulate
agricultural production in the Groundnut Basin, which has not substantially
increased since Independence, Government proposes to overhaul the state-
cooperative system, trimming the heavy bureaucracy and transferring economic
initiative back to the farmers. Agricultural research will be oriented more
on farm systems than on individual crops, with the objective of lowering the
costs of the agricultural techniques propagated, and better adaptation to
farmers' needs. The Government also aims at a modest expansion of phosphate
mining, and development of light export industries and tourism; moreover,
contracts have been signed for construction of a ship-repair yard, and plans
for a phosphoric acid plant are in an advanced stage. However, with limited
prospects for export growth in the groundnut sector, and because of the modest
scale of the export subsidy scheme, no spectacular improvements in the
balance of payments can be expected. Government counts heavily on the
implementation of a number of large investments, either in irrigation to
diminish the heavy dependence on rice imports, or in export-oriented manu-
facturing industries. However, these investments have long gestation periods
and involve the Government in substantial risks, and a cautious view of the
long-term outlook is therefore warranted. Even if economic growth could be
raised to a modest 4 percent a year between 1982 and 1985, the annual growth
rate between 1977 and 1985, because of the decline in GDP in 1978 and 1980,
would probably not exceed 2.4 percent a year, which is still not above popula-
tion growth.
22.       Government intends to rely more on the private sector for investment
in industry, tourism and other productive activities; however, it will take
some time before this new emphasis will be reflected in the composition of
investments. The private sector has a low propensity to invest because of
Senegal's relatively high production costs, and (after a period of active



- 9 -
state intervention) often insists upon Government participation or loan
guarantees for new ventures, thus reducing the size of its risks. Moreover,
some public investments are needed in view of the country's critical depen-
dence on state-financed irrigation.
23.       The stabilization plan will help Senegal to overcome the effects of
the recent drought, the higher oil prices, and the high debt service built up
over the past five years. Its strict implementation is therefore crucial for
Senegal's prospects for economic growth and creditworthiness. To help Gov-
ernment achieve the structural reforms needed, the Bank is planning to expand
ongoing technical assistance to the parapublic sector and in particular to the
agricultural institutions, provide assistance to the setting up and imple-
mentation of the export subsidy scheme, help Government in establishing
systems to monitor national savings, assist in improving the development,
evaluation and choice of projects, and support the administrative reorganization
in the Ministry of Finance to assure speedier execution of ongoing projects.
Creditworthiness
24.       The ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services increased
rapidly from less than 7 percent until 1976 to 13 percent in 1979, and an
estimated 16 percent in 1980, a level which should not be exceeded in
Senegal's current economic circumstances. This steep increase is mainly the
result of a rise in the share of commercial borrowing from about 25 percent of
total borrowing during 1973-76 to an average of 56 percent during 1977 and
1980. Thanks to considerable restraint by the Government on commercial
borrowing in 1979 (US$9 million), and the termination of repayments on earlier
commercial credits, debt service will level off in the early 1980's. In the
medium-term, expected improvement in export performance related to better
crops, a few large export-oriented projects, and implementation of the export
incentive scheme is expected to allow Government to keep the debt service
ratio around 15 percent of export earnings.
25.       The weak balance of payments position is dominated by the need to
strengthen Senegal's foreign reserve position. In the short term, Senegal can
afford low reserve levels through its membership in the West African Monetary
Union which provides for pooling of foreign reserves, and whose currency is
guaranteed unlimited convertibility by the French Treasury. Moreover, as the
experience in 1978 has shown, IMF and STABEX facilities provide a buffer for
the periodic drops in export revenues linked with droughts and fluctuations in
world market prices. However, if Senegal maintains negative balances for an
extended period, it could weaken this regional institution whose existence is
a cornerstone for Senegal's creditworthiness. The impact on the balance of
payments of the oil price hike and the bad 1979/80 groundnut crop to be sold
at low prices could widen the overall balance of payments deficit to some
US$250 million in 1980 and about US$100 million in 1981. Since Senegal's debt
service burden is already extremely heavy, full Eurodollar financing of these
deficits should not be envisaged. Foreign donors should therefore be prepared
to raise the percentage of foreign finance in their projects, and consider



- 10 -
program aid in the first instance to help cushion the impact of these develop-
ments on net foreign assets, as well as to support the structural reforms
being undertaken as part of the stabilization plan.
26.       With implementation of the Government's economic stabilization
plan, Senegal would remain creditworthy for some lending on IBRD terms. The
Government has demonstrated its commitment to development by expanding its
public investment effort substantially between 1970/71 and 1977/78. The
Government has also demonstrated an adequate capacity to respond to the
problems which its vulnerable economy is bound to encounter periodically.
Senegal's prospects for long-term diversification and growth are modest, but
essential to provide a reasonable basis for social and economic development.
Its access to short-term financing facilities and membership in the West
African Monetary Union also reduce the risks associated with economic fluctua-
tions. However, lenders (including the Bank Group) should provide a large
part of their assistance on concessionary terms in order to avoid a further
rapid buildup of debt service, and should be prepared to finance a consider-
able part of the local costs of projects. Moreover, in the coming two years,
financial assistance of a program nature and close monitoring of the economy
will most likely be required to support the Government in its structural
adjustment policies.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
27.       The Bank Group has had 42 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding amounts to US$230.8 million, including 22 IDA credits, 14 Bank
loans, two blends of Bank and IDA funds, three IFC operations, and one blend
of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits, and IFC investments as of December 31, 1979, and notes on the
implementation of ongoing projects. Physical execution of these projects is
progressing reasonably well, although some operations are affected by the
shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's continuing difficult
public finance situation, as well as by lack of qualified local staff for key
positions. But institutional bottlenecks in several sectors constitute the
largest obstacle to efficient project implementation. The Government is well
aware of the need to reduce delays caused by these problems, and particularly
of the importance of assuring good management supervision of projects in all
sectors. In this respect, the ongoing Para-Public Sector Technical Assist-
ance will initiate and implement measures necessary to resolve on a sector-
wide basis some of the issues regarding the financial management and Govern-
ment control of public enterprises and mixed companies, particularly those
that are channels for Bank Group assistance. In addition, the Government
has recently created an Interministerial Committee with representation of
foreign aid donors, to expedite preparation of new investment projects, and
to identify bottlenecks in project execution and take remedial action. The
work of this committee has already begun to produce some positive results.



- 11 -
28.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1977-81 will stay at around 12 percent, of which roughly 54
percent in IDA financing. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed
debt was 18 percent in 1979, and will (after falling slightly in 1980-83)
slowly start to surpass that level, reaching about 20 percent in 1985. The
Bank Group's share in public debt service is expected to increase from 3.8
percent in 1979 to about 4.9 percent in 1985, a rise which is mainly due to
the increase in Bank loans from 32 percent of the Bank Group's total outstand-
ing and disbursed funds to Senegal to about 42 percent by 1985.
29.       The objectives of Bank Group lending in Senegal concur with the
Government's strategy and fall under five main headings. First, priority
continues to be given to rural development, including development of
irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region, rainfed agriculture in the
well-watered southern regions of the country, intensification of groundnut
production and diversification into new crops and new regions, national
projects for improvement of agricultural research and for reforestation,
and a Small Rural Projects operation which has just been approved by the
Executive Directors. As in the past, agricultural lending over the next
few years is expected to exceed one-third of the total. Second, the Bank
Group has supported diversification of the economy by lending to the
growing industrial sector through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour
le Developpement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development
finance company established with Bank Group assistance in 1974, and through
an ongoing project for development of tourism infrastructure. Third, Bank
Group projects have supported modernization and expansion (where economically
desirable) of the country's infrastructure. A Second Aviation Project was
approved by the Executive Directors in early FY79. Also, an engineering
project approved later in FY79 finances studies and technical assistance
for water supply and sanitation development in eleven secondary centers,
and is expected to pave the way for future Bank Group involvement in that
sector. Similarly, an engineering and technical assistance project will be
submitted for Board consideration later this year for the power sector.
Fourth, assistance is being provided under the Third Education Project
approved in FY79 to help the Government re-orient and expand the country's
education system at all levels, by meeting in particular the needs for
trained high- and middle-level technicians and managers in the modern
sector and in agricultural development activities, and by increasing access
to primary education, particularly in rural areas. The Bank Group remains
conscious of the need to support other projects in the social services
sector (within the limits of the Government's ability to bear the recurrent
costs involved), and has started preparing a production-oriented integrated
food and nutrition project. Finally, continuing assistance is being
provided to help Government increase its absorptive capacity for planning,
executing, and managing development projects through institutional support
within individual Bank Group projects, and through broader efforts such as
the Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project. Several Bank Group
operations, notably in tourism, telecommunications, port infrastructure,
loans to SOFISEDIT, and in airport development, have the additional merit
of generating revenues for the Senegalese Treasury.



- 12 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
30.       The transport system consists of a 1,034 km railway network; 13,740
km of roads, including 2,840 km paved; a deepwater, protected port at Dakar
(the only one with such characteristics in the Sahel zone) and three secondary
ports; and an international airport at Dakar and a network of smaller domestic
airports. All components of the system, except the road network, serve an
important international function and reflect the country's role as a regional
center and transit country.
31.       Government's transport strategy focuses on:  (i) developing
local transport infrastructure in support of overall economic growth,
particularly in the agriculture sector; (ii) promoting regional integration,
especially within rural areas, and in particular with the Casamance region;
and (iii) maintaining the already extensive investments in the sector.
Transport planning and coordination is shared by three ministries: the
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation assumes overall responsibility for
preparation of development plans; the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
specifies amounts to be invested, determines the structure and level of taxes
levied on transport services and maintains financial supervision of state-
owned transport enterprises; the Ministry of Equipment proposes and executes
Government policy in the transport sector. With the assistance of the
Bank Group, the Government has undertaken the preparation of a National
Transport Plan as a first step in strengthening permanent transport planning
institutions.
32.       To make up for its chronic shortage of funds to finance transport-
related investments, the Government has relied heavily on external assis-
tance from both multilateral and bilateral sources. In addition to the
Bank Group, which has provided about US$90 million over the past twelve
years in all transport subsectors, major sources of funds were: (a) FED, the
Federal Republic of Germany and commercial banks for road construction; (b)
France for railways investments; (c) France and the Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa (BADEA) in ports; and (d) France in aviation.
Railways
33.       The railway comprises about 660 km of mainline between Dakar
and the Mali border and 374 km of branch lines. It is operated by the
Regie des Chemins de Fer du Senegal, a public enterprise. In FY78 the Regie
carried about 1.7 million tons of freight, the bulk of which is phosphates
from the Taiba and Thies mines to Dakar port and transit traffic to Mali.
The railway has traditionally been the dominant carrier of domestic freight,
but due to deteriorating service and efficiency, it has recently lost its
position to the road transport, particularly for shorter hauls. The Bank
Group has financed three railroad projects (Credit 96-SE, 1966; Credit
314/Loan 835-SE, 1972 and Loan 1518-SE, 1978). The first two projects
concentrated on improvements in physical infrastructure, while the third
project, now under execution, lays emphasis on improving the Regie's
organizational and financial management and on technical assistance and
training programs. As a result of this new approach, the railway has



- 13 -
started to regain freight traffic, mainly phosphates and international
traffic to Mali. Increased railway phosphate traffic has relieved conges-
tion on the heavily utilized Thies-Dakar road corridor.
Ports
34.       Senegal's port and waterway system consists of major port facili-
ties at Dakar, supplemented by secondary ports at St. Louis, Kaolack and
Ziguinchor. The Port of Dakar, which is the only deepwater port, is
managed and operated by the Port Autonome de Dakar (PAD), an efficient and
profitable public enterprise. Cargo through Dakar doubled in the last ten
years and now totals about 6 million tons per annum. Traffic consists
mainly of petroleum, phosphates, general merchandise and international
traffic for Mali and Mauritania. The Port's managerial and financial
performance is good. The first Port Project (Loan 493-SE, 1967) extended
the port's facilities and was successfully completed. The second Port
Project (Loan 1405-T-SE, 1977) now under execution, consists of the construc-
tion of a new fishing wharf with ancillary facilities at Dakar port. A
third port project, under preparation, is designed to meet the increasing
requirements of container traffic.
Airports
35.       The aviation infrastructure in Senegal is basically adequate.  It
is placed under the responsibility of the Ministry of Equipment and ASECNA,
the international African aviation agency. The Dakar airport serves as a
strategic stopover on routes between Europe and South America, and between
New York and West and East Africa; it is served by 22 international airlines,
in addition to the Government-owned Air Senegal. Air Senegal also provides
scheduled services to 15 domestic airports. Commercial air traffic, mainly
international, has increased substantially over the past 10 years; annual
growth rates have averaged 15 percent for passengers, 13 percent for freight,
and 8 percent for aircraft movements. This growth is expected to continue,
and the Bank is assisting the development of the Dakar airport and two
secondary airports as part of the Second Aviation Project (Loan 1665-SE).
The Highway Subsector
36.       The road network, generally well developed, relative to the size of
the country and growth of the economy, is concentrated in the coastal regions
and the groundnut-producing areas near Dakar. It is the principal mode of
domestic transport, carrying about 75 percent of commercial inter-urban
passengers and freight traffic excluding phosphates. Since independence in
1960, Government's strategy in the highway sector has been to extend roads
throughout the country, especially in remote areas with agricultural poten-
tial, and to date some 2,000 km of roads have been built since the first
four-year development plan. The classified network now totals about 13,740 km,
including 2,840 km of paved roads and 5,550 km of all-weather and gravel



- 14 -
roads; the rest of the system (5,350 km) consists of tracks. Partly due to
reclassification, the network to be maintained by the Ministry of Equipment
has grown from about 9,000 km since 1972 to cover the entire road length.
37.       The Bank Group supported the Government's strategy through the first
Highway Project (Credit 198-SE, 1970) and through a Feeder Roads Project (Loan
1221-T-SE, 1976). As stated in the Project Performance Audit Report of
September 1977, the first Highway Project was completed satisfactorily except
that the economic return was lower than expected due to the impact of succes-
sive droughts on agricultural production and traffic. As many of the paved
roads were built before independence and were not designed for present traf-
fic, they have suffered substantial deterioration. The second (Credit 366-SE,
1973) and third (Loan 1222-SE, 1976) Highway Projects were designed to meet
these needs and to improve road maintenance. The growth in the network,
however, has not been matched by a corresponding increase in maintenance
capability, and road maintenance remains the main problem affecting the
sector. In order to remedy this situation, the project, described in this
report, lays greater emphasis than the previous projects on measures designed
to improve road maintenance performance.
38.       Senegal's public works organization has about US$30 million worth
of maintenance equipment which is sufficient to implement its maintenance
program. However, this considerable investment has been underutilized because
of financial, managerial and organizational weaknesses, notably inadequate
operating funds, shortage of skilled personnel, and cumbersome organization.
By providing the necessary technical assistance and intensive training pro-
gram, the project would support the Government's recent efforts to make the
maintenance program more efficient nationwide through proper attention to
organizational improvements and funding procedures.
39.       Road Maintenance Funding.  Until fiscal 1978/79, road maintenance
was financed from the general budget, while new construction was financed from
the Road Fund, a special account receiving an earmarked portion of fuel taxes,
and/or external sources. As the general budget is subject to lengthy debate
and cuts, funds for road maintenance were inadequate and unavailable until
late in the maintenance season, while funds for road construction were of easy
access. The result was inadequate road maintenance and overinvestment in new
roads. Following the Bank's suggestion, the Government has reversed this
procedure starting fiscal year 1979/80. New construction is now to be slowed
down and scrutinized by the legislature; the Government agreed at negotiations
to consult with the Bank before undertaking any new investment program
(Section 4.04 (a) of the draft DCA). The investment program shall henceforth
be financed through the investment budget (Section 4.04 (b) of the draft DCA),
thus enabling the Road Fund to be used exclusively for road maintenance expenses
(Section 4.05 (a) of the draft DCA). To ensure adequate maintenance of the net-
work, the Road Fund would be provided with CFAF 3 billion (US$14.3 million) in
FY81 on the basis of consultants' estimates, reviewed by the Government and
Bank staff. The funds would be allocated directly by the Treasury from
revenues from fuel taxes. After an exchange of views with the Bank, the
allocation would be adjusted or increased each fiscal year to reflect network



- 15 -
expansion and higher costs (Section 4.05 (b) of the draft DCA). Further,
to ensure timely availability of these funds when needed for minor maintenance
expenses, a special account (caisse d'avance) shall be created and replenished
by the Road Fund (Section 4.06 of the draft DCA). Finally, road construction
prefinanced under the Road Fund will be amortized under the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (Section 4.05 (b) of the draft DCA). Issuance and publication
of the decree reorganizing the Road Fund and of the arrete establishing the
special account would be conditions of effectiveness (Section 6.01 (a) and
(b) of the draft DCA).
40.       Manpower.  The shortage of trained manpower is another of the
reasons why Senegal lacks well-maintained roads. The Second and Third Highway
Projects provided for on-the-job training of mechanics and operators and
training of cost accountants; these projects also financed improvements to
the General Directorate of Public Works (GDPW) training center and the pur-
chase of training equipment. Nevertheless, remaining needs are considerable:
it is estimated that over the next five years, GDPW will need to recruit and
train about 600 employees, and further train its existing staff; the proposed
project includes a comprehensive training program which should improve the
situation since it covers the required number of trainees during the first
three years.
41.       Organization of Maintenance.  The General Directorate of Public
Works (GDPW) of the Ministry of Equipment (ME), which replaced in March 1979
the former Public Works Department, has overall responsibility for construc-
tion and maintenance of the classified road network and feeder roads.
Until then, the Central Maintenance Division within the former Directorate of
Public Works was responsible for, but not able to control, the regions; the
Central Equipment Division, also within this former Directorate did not
coordinate its work with the Maintenance Division, and maintained the equip-
ment poorly; and the mobile brigades performed inadequately, despite efforts
under the Second and Third Highway Projects to improve operations. With the
support of the Bank, the road maintenance structure was thus reorganized to
delegate effective authority to the regions which became responsible for the
execution of routine maintenance and supervision of periodic maintenance
works, to be carried out by contractors. The reorganization also involved the
merger of the Central Maintenance Division and of the Central Equipment
Division into a single Directorate of Road Maintenance and Equipment which
monitors road maintenance programs and provides logistical support to the
eight regional divisions which are now in charge of road maintenance execution
with full authority on equipment, workshops, personnel and finance.
42.       Other activities in the sector, such as engineering and construc-
tion, or road transport, are mainly being executed by private firms. The
Directorate of Studies and Programming of GDPW has overall responsibility for
feasibility and engineering studies, and the Directorate of Road Construction,
for their execution. Engineering for and supervision of works are carried out
mainly by foreign consultants, but local consultants have been successfully
acting as subcontractors. Foreign contractors still dominate the industry,
but domestic firms are making determined progress. The project would assist
in encouraging the domestic consulting capacity by enabling domestic firms to
participate in studies and supervision of construction; it is also expected



- 16 -
that domestic contractors would be in a position to participate in bidding for
civil works in view of the proposed size of the lots for civil works. The
national soils laboratory (CEREEQ) satisfactorily carries out all soils
studies for design and construction supervision of civil engineering struc-
tures and construction materials. However, CEREEQ has difficulty in carrying
out its work as it must depend on advances from the Treasury and, as a result,
has recurring liquidity problems. To remedy this situation, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government will provide CEREEQ with suffi-
cient financial autonomy, including, if necessary, a caisse d'avance, to carry
out its operations efficiently (Section 4.07 of the draft DCA).
43.       Road transport is regulated by the General Directorate of Transport
of the Ministry of Equipment. The vehicle fleet has reached about 80,000
units, about one for every 60 inhabitants. About two-thirds of the fleet
are passenger cars, but buses and heavy vehicles are increasing twice as
fast. With the exception of most groundnut transport, which is the responsibi-
lity of the Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement, a
public agency, road transport is handled by private firms, and since 1973,
entry into the industry has been limited to Senegalese nationals. The pro-
ducts of trading companies and modern businesses (petroleum, logs, refrigera-
ted products, etc.) are transported at economic rates by a few modern firms
which generally have their own vehicles and maintenance and repair facilities.
Foodstuffs, cattle and small loads are transported by traditional firms made
up of owner-drivers who generally have small, older trucks.
44.       Regulations limiting vehicle weights are satisfactory, with the
maximum axle-load having been increased recently to 13 tons, but the regula-
tions are not enforced; 30 to 40 percent of the trucks are overloaded.
Since enforcement of axle-load regulations is indispensable to preserve road
investments, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Govern-
ment will prepare an action program by December 31, 1980 designed to ensure
enforcement of its rules and regulations relating to axle-load limits and to
the import of vehicles complying with these regulations. (Section 4.03 of the
draft DCA).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The main road network of Senegal is now approaching a form which
meets the country's basic economic and social needs, but to be kept in good
repair, the limited road maintenance capability of the Government needs to be
strengthened further. Efforts have already begun under previous Bank Group
projects to improve road maintenance. The proposed project will continue
these efforts in the sector, and has essentially been prepared under the Third
Highway Project (Loan 1222-SE). It was appraised by a Bank mission which
visited Senegal in November-December 1978, and the road construction compo-
nent was appraised by an OECF mission which visited Senegal in July 1979.
Loan/ Credit negotiations took place in Washington in January 1980, with the
Senegalese delegation led by H.E. Louis Alexandrenne, Minister of Plan and



- 17 -
Cooperation. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 2515a-SE, dated February 13,
1980, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Map IBRD No.
11900RI shows Senegal's road network.
46.       The major objectives of the project are to increase Government's
capacity to keep the road network in adequate condition, to plan road
maintenance, strengthening and rehabilitation works in the most economical
way, and to reduce the acute shortage of trained technicians and other
selected workers. In addition, the prsDject aims at rehabilitating about 200
km of degraded paved roads and at providing for construction of about 85 km of
paved road in an area now served by a track and a deficient rail branch-
line. For the main objectives to be achievable, the Bank has encouraged
Government to take positive steps, some of which were taken prior to negotia-
tions (para. 39 to 41).  The project is expected to be completed over the
period 1980-1983.
Project Description
47.       To achieve the above objectives, the proposed project would include:
(a) a three-year training program with classroom instruction and a
training production brigade for GDPW's road maintenance personnel
including:
(i) procurement of equipment and supplies; and (ii) technical
assistance for the training program for local trainees and for
training selected personnel abroad;
(b) a two and a half year technical assistance program for execution of
road maintenance by DRME;
(c) procurement of equipment and construction of additional offices for
the Government's soils laboratory (CEREEQ);
(d) design of proper and systematic pavement maintenance and strengthen-
ing programs;
(e) strengthening and rehabilitation of about 200 km of primary paved
roads; and
(f)  construction of the Louga-Dahra road (about 85 km) to two-lane
paved standards.
48.       Training Program.  The ongoing Third Highway Project already pro-
vided for improvement of the existing training center building in Dakar, for
construction of an annex at the central workshop in Dakar, for procurement of
teaching equipment, and for six man-months of technical assistance to help set
up the training center and establish recruitment procedures for trainees. The
proposed project would provide additional technical assistance (210 man-
months) to implement a three-year training program, as well as equipment and
supplies needed by the training/production brigade, which will be assigned
specific road sections for maintenance in the Cap Vert and Thies regions. The



- 18 -
training center will be headed by a competent Senegalese and run with the help
of consultants. Senegalese instructors would receive on-the-job training in
the center and additional training abroad; a total of about 20 fellowships
would be granted to selected GDPW personnel to study abroad for 6 to 12
months. The terms of reference for the technical assistance, the assignment
of counterparts to the consultants, the recruitment and/or assignment of staff
to be trained or retrained, and yearly reviews of the progress of the training
program were discussed and agreed during negotiations (Section 3.02 of the
draft DCA). In addition, the training program, with details on number, type
of trainees, and amount of daily allowances to be provided during training, is
described in a supplemental letter.
49.       Technical Assistance for Road Maintenance.  Under previous highway
projects, consultants have started road maintenance brigades in each region,
conducted on-the-job training of road technicians and mechanics, and helped
the regions execute their annual road maintenance programs. They also intro-
duced cost accounting as a tool for management of road maintenance programs.
Their work was, however, hampered by institutional and financial difficulties
experienced by the country. The new organizational set-up and the proposal
made for adequate financing of road maintenance through the Road Fund and a
caisse d'avance (para. 39) should help solve these problems. Under the pro
posed project, additional technical assistance (106 man-months) would be
provided to the Directorate of Road Maintenance to assist in: (i) consolidat-
ing the new organization at the regional level; (ii) planning and supervising
the execution of road maintenance operations; and (iii) consolidating perfor-
mance cost accounting as a tool for management of road maintenance programs.
The terms of reference were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
50.       Equipment and Offices for the Soils Laboratory.  CEREEQ, the
national soils laboratory, is carrying out research on the utilization of
construction materials. It is also conducting soils investigations for the
design and construction supervision of civil engineering structures including
roads, bridges and buildings. The Government has called upon the laboratory
to join GDPW in the planning and execution of road maintenance programs.
Under the Third Highway Project, soils testing equipment was provided to
CEREEQ. The project would provide for construction of a new wing to the
existing building and the procurement of pavement testing and soils explora-
tion equipment.
51.       Design of Pavement Maintenance and Strengthening Programs.  One
of the aims of the project is to introduce appropriate methodologies to carry
out proper and systematic pavement maintenance and strengthening programs to
prevent premature road deterioration. The project would include a study on a
systematic approach to pavement maintenance and strengthening aiming at
minimizing costs of maintaining and improving the roads. The study would
include: (i) a systematic pavement testing program on the critical primary
road network; (ii) an investigation of appropriate road maintenance operations
and techniques; (iii) design of appropriate seasonal routine road maintenance
programs; (iv) establishment of a long-range resurfacing program; and (v)
pre-investment studies and final engineering for pavement strengthening works



- 19 -
on roads that can no longer be maintained by the routine maintenance and
resurfacing programs. The terms of reference for the studies were discussed
and agreed upon at negotiations.
52.       Strengthening and Rehabilitation of Paved Roads.  Under the Second
and Third Highway Projects, road pavement strengthening was carried out on
about 233 km (see map) of roads; the project would continue these efforts and
provide for strengthening and rehabilitation of an additional high priority
200 km of paved roads. These roads, built between 13 and 30 years ago and now
carrying from 200 to 10,000 vehicles per day, have deteriorated over much of
their lengths to the extent that reconstruction of the pavement is necessary.
The proposed improvements would consist of (i) pavement widening where needed
to accommodate traffic; (ii) reconstruction of the pavement; and (iii)
improvement of drainage structures and shoulders.
53.       Construction of the Louga-Dahra Road (about 85 km).  The Louga-Dahra
corridor, which provides access to a groundnut-producing area and several
villages, is now served by a rail branch line and a sand track. The Govern-
ment has been subsidizing operation of the rail line which is uneconomic. The
sand track, running parallel to the rail line is passable only during the
dry season and only to four-wheel drive vehicles and light trucks. The
proposed project provides for the construction of the Louga-Dahra road to
two-lane paved standards, which will enable the closing of the rail branch.
Project Cost and Financing
54.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties, is estimated
at US$59.5 million equivalent, with local costs of US$15.0 million equivalent
(25 percent) and foreign costs of US$44.5 million equivalent (75 percent).
The cost estimate includes 10 percent physical contingencies for pavement
rehabilitation, road and building construction and price contingencies ranging
from 7 to 9 percent p.a. based on expected international price trends. The
billing rate for consultant services under the project is estimated at an
average of US$10,000, including $3,500 for reimbursable expenses, per field
man-month. Overseas fellowships under the project's training component are
estimated at US$5,000 a year including travel.
55.       Due to significant and serious budgetary constraints experienced
by Senegal, it is recommended that total external finance cover about 86
percent of total project costs, net of taxes. This represents the total
foreign costs plus 43 percent of local costs. The Bank Group would provide a
loan of US$10 million at 20 years including 5 years of grace and a credit of
US$28.0 million. The Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) has
agreed to finance, on a parallel basis, the entire cost, net of taxes, of the
construction of the Louga-Dahra road through a loan of Yen 2.5 billion
(US$12.9 million equivalent) with a term of 30 years, including 10 years of
grace, at 3.5 percent interest per annum. The Japanese loan was signed on
September 7, 1979. The Government would finance the remaining 57 percent of
local costs or US$8.6 million, and has agreed to exempt the project elements
from all taxes and duties.



- 20 -
Financing Plan:                       Foreign    Local    Total
__----… US$000-.
Bank and IDA                            34,800    3,200    38,000
OECF (Japan)                             9,700    3,200    12,900
Government                                  --    8,600      8,600
44,500   15,000    59,500
Project Implementation
56.       The project, including the OECF financed component, would be imple-
mented over three and a half years from June 1980 to December 1983. The
Ministry of Equipment (ME) through its General Directorate of Public Works
(GDPW), and with the assistance of consultants, would have the overall respon-
sibility for the implementation of the project. Road construction and
rehabilitation works would take approximately 18 and 27 months respectively to
complete. Technical assistance for training would be provided for three years
starting September 1980. Technical assistance for execution of road mainte-
nance would continue for two and a half years starting July 1980. The
studies under the project would start in September 1980 and take about two
years to complete.
Procurement
57.       The construction of the Louga-Dahra road would be executed by
contractors and supervised by consultants on the basis of competitive bidding
following OECF guidelines. Contractors, to be selected on the basis of
international competitive bidding and in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines, would rehabilitate the 200 km of paved roads. Prospective bidders
would have to be prequalified. Road rehabilitation works would be packaged
in medium-sized lots, estimated to cost US$10 million each, in order to
support the domestic construction industry. Improvement and construction of
office buildings, estimated at US$195,000 net of taxes would be awarded
following locally advertised competitive bidding in accordance with procure-
ment procedures of the Government which are satisfactory to the Bank Group.
Equipment would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
following Bank Group guidelines. However, items of equipment and supplies
costing under US$20,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of quotations
obtained from competing suppliers provided the aggregate amount of such
purchases does not exceed US$300,000 equivalent. The Government intends to
retain for construction supervision the services of consulting firms SETEC
International (France) and Louis Berger, International, Inc., (USA) which
carried out preinvestment studies of road improvement; and, for technical
assistance to road maintenance, the services of Louis Berger, International,
Inc., which is assisting the Government in setting up the new road maintenance
organization and initiating new road maintenance management and techniques.
The performance of the consulting firms has been satisfactory. Consultants for



- 21 -
technical assistance for training and investment studies would be appointed
with qualifications and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Government
and the Bank Group.
Disbursements
58.       The proposed Bank Loan and IDA Credit would be disbursed on the
following basis:
(a) for civil works, excluding the Louga-Dahra road which is financed
separately by OECF, 76 percent of total contract expenditures
excluding taxes;
(b) for consulting services, fellowships, and training allowances,
100 percent of expenditures net of taxes; and
(c) for equipment and supplies, 100 percent of foreign expenditures
and 85 percent of local expenditures, if purchased locally.
Economic Justification and Risks
59.       A main benefit of the project will be its institutional impact,
enabling the public works organization to plan and carry out its functions
efficiently. Thus, and through reconstruction of heavily trafficked
deteriorated road sections, it should improve the conditions of virtually
the entire main network and help reduce vehicle operating costs, the benefits
of which are expected to be passed on to shippers and passengers. The bene-
fits from the technical assistance and training components, whose cost
account for about US$5.5 million (10 percent of total project costs), have not
been taken into account in calculating the project's economic return because
their quantification is difficult, but they are considerable given the more
efficient use of the maintenance allocations they generate and would result in
a far higher rate of return. The overall economic return from the project is
expected to be about 30 percent.
60.       The 200 km of roads to be strengthened under the project are some
of the most heavily trafficked in the country, which were built 13-30 years
ago and are now approaching the end of their economic life. Eighty-eight
kilometers of these roads form part of the main trunk road system linking
Dakar with four major populated and groundnut producing regions of the country.
The economic justification for the pavement strengthening and rehabilitation
component rests on avoiding further rapid increases in vehicle operating,
road maintenance and road reconstruction costs. Based on the expected life
of the proposed pavement strengthening of 15 years, the overall economic
return from this component, which accounts for US$39 million (63 percent) of
total project costs, is estimated to be 40 percent, with the return for
individual sections ranging from 15 to 60 percent. The sensitivity analysis
shows that the returns remain above 30 percent, should costs increase or
benefits decrease by 20 percent compared to present best estimates.
61.       The corridor between Louga and Dahra is the most important link
within the recently created Louga region which is primarily agricultural.



- 22 -
The benefits considered for the Louga-Dahra road construction derive from
discontinuing the uneconomic rail branch line which currently links the
two towns, reduced vehicle operating costs of diverted road traffic and
generated passenger traffic. The economic return on the investment (US$12.9
million or 22 percent of total project costs) is estimated to be 15 percent and
would remain in the 12-13 percent range should costs increase, or benefits
decrease, by 20 percent.
62.       W4hile there are no major risks which may jeopardize the implementa-
tion of the project, the achievement of its institutional objectives will
require a continued government commitment to adequate funding, developing a
viable and efficient public works organization inter alia through recruiting,
training and maintaining skilled personnel, to sustain road maintenance
activities on a permanent basis. Also, the economic justification of the
pavement strengthening component of the project is dependent upon the success-
ful implementation of the maintenance program to be assisted by the project.
The Government has already taken positive steps in recognition of the impor-
tance of road maintenance by reorganizing and delegating public works mainte-
nance activities to regions, setting up a permanent training center and insti-
tuting new appropriation and disbursement procedures.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Senegal and the
Bank, the draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Senegal
and the Association, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Recommenda-
tion of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
64.       Features of the draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements of
special interest are mentioned in the text and referred to in Section III of
Annex III to this Report. Special conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
Development Credit are: (a) issuance and publication of the decree reorganiz-
ing the Road Fund; and (b) issuance and publication of the arrete establishing
the special account (caisse d'avance) (para. 39).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and the proposed Development
Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association respectively.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMNIENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan and the proposed Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
February 28, 1980



- 24 -
TABEL 3A
SltlCAL - SOCAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SONDEAL                   RETU.UCZ GROUPS (ADJUSTED AjfRAG9S
LND AtlA (ThOUSAND SQ. *  .)                S1- HOST RECEcNT ESTIiAT                                A
TOTAL            196.2                                                 SAKZ        SAzE    NEX  HIGNER
A3- CULTUIAL      81.O0                              DST iZCENT      CmZAOPIC   Isco!          IN2CONE
1960  /    1970    I ESTIMTh        UCIk A ION h   GROUrP    GROUP a
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 180.0       240.0     340.0          306.1      467.5      1097.7
ENERGY C0PSUNPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRMS Of COAL CQUIVALCNT)     L21.0       139.0    L56.0             80.6      262.1       730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, KID-TMAt (MILLIONS)     3.4         4.4       5.2
UBAN POPULATION (PECRCT OF TOTAL) 22.6         23.7      24.2            17.1       24.6        49.0
POPULATION PROJUTIOINS
POPULATION IN YtEA  2000 (MlILLIONS)                    9.0
STATIO1AT POPOLATION (MILLIONS)                        24.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPVLATION IS MACHD                  2155
POPULATION DENSM
PnR SQ. 83.                      17.0        22.0      27.0            18.4       45.3        44.6
PU SQ. CK. AGRICULTURAL LAND     43.0        55.0      64.0            50.8      149.0       140.7
POPJLATION AGE STRUCTJE! (PERCENT)
0-14 Ys.                         42.5        42.9      44.2            44.1       45.2        41.3
15-64 ITS.                        56.0        54.2      52.7            52.9       51.9        55.3
65 TRS. AND AOV1                  1.5         2.9       3.1             2.8        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GCtOV! RATZ (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.2         2.4       2.6             2.7        2.7         2.4
lAN- 3.5                                      2.9       2.9             5.7        4.3        4.5
CRUDE SIMTH RATE (PER ThOUSAND)    47.9        46.8      48.5            46.3       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH UTA!T (PER THOUSAND)   26.7        23.7      22.3            17.2       11.7         9.2
GOSS REPRODUCTION  AZE               ..         3.0       3.2             3.1        2.7         2.2
FAMLY PLANNING
ACCE?ZORS  ANN1AL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT Of HAIRIED 6N)    ..            ..        ..              ..       13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDCE of FOOD PRODUCTION
PZR CAPITA (1969-71-100)        124.2        82.0    100.011           94.3       99.6       104.4
PE CAPITA SUPLY OF
CALWRICS (PERCZNT OF
3RQUIfERZNTS)                  97.0        91.0      97.0            89.5       94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PIZ DAY)         64.0        64.0      67.1            55.8       54.3        64.4
Of WICH ANIMAL AMD PULSE         ..        16.6f    20.8             17.9       17.4        23.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MNTALITY RATE     41.0        35.0      32.0            22.3       11.4         8.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT SIRTH (TEAS)    37.0        40.0      42.0            47.0       54.7        60.2
INFANT MOITALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..        ..              ..       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAlE WATER (PRCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       37.0           20.3       34.4        60.8
UIIAN                              ..          ..       68.0           53.9       57.9        75.7
RURAL                              ..          ..       23.0           10.1       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCSZTA DISPOSAL (PCETNT
Or POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..            22.5       40.8        46.0
U1.AN                              ..          ..        ..            62.5       71.3        46.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..            13.9       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PEI PHYSICIAN        35000.0     16640.0  16450.0          17424.7    6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSIOG PERSON    4110.ObL    2410.0    1660.0          2506.6     1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           940.0       810.0     730.0           502.3      726.5       453.4
URBAN                              ..       390.0    380.0            201.4      272.7       253.1
RURAL                              *-      1300.0   1156.0           1403.6     1404.4      2732.4
ADHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        22.2      26.7            23.4       27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             4.9        5.4         5.3
UltAN                              ..          ..       7.6             4.9        5.1         5.2
RURAL                              ..          ..       6.0             5.5        5.5         5.4
AVERAGZ WIMBER OF PERSONS PER SOON
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         1.9
URBAN                              ...                   ....                                  1. 6
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         2. 5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..       28.1        50.0
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..              ..       45.1        71.7
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..        9.9        17.3



- 25 -
Page 2
TABLE 3A
SENECAL - SOCIAL INIDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAltE        A."i.E    SEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOttE      INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   CROUP Id    CROUP I/e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENSI RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TaOAL                 27.0         43.0       45.0            59.0        82.7        102.5
MALE                  36.0         53.0      55.0             64.2        87.3       108.6
FEMALE                17.0         33.0      35.0             44.2        75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0         10.0       11.0              9.0       21.4         33.5
MALE                   4.0         15.0      16.0             12.0        33.0        38.4
FEMALE                 2.0         6.0        7.0              4.4        15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)  23.0           9.0       10.0              7.0        9.8         11.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRItARY                              *-         45.0       49.0             42.2       34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                          34.0         29.0       22.0             22.9       23.4         22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PlRCE2F)          5.6/h       10.0      10.0             20.8       54.0         64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TEtOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         9.0        9.2              4.0        9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         47.0         69.0       69.0            44.3        76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         0.4        8.0              2.9       13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    6.0          5.0       7.0              5.6        18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       1.2              0.4         2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
MOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1300.0      1570.0    1770.0
FEUALIE (PERCENT)                  39.7         39.1       38.8             31.9       29.2         25.0
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.6         79.7       77.0             77.6       62.7         43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.4          6.6        9.0              7.9       11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 46.6        44.3       42.8             40.8       37.1         33.5
tALE                                  56.7        54.5       53.0             53.9       48. 8        48.0
FEMALE                                36.8        34.3       32.8             25.6       20.4         16.8
ECONOIIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2         1.3        1.4              1.2         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBt'TION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   36.8/i          ..         ..              ..        15.2         20.8
HIGhEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62.57T          ..         ..               ..       48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.27T          ..         ..              ..         6.3          3.9
LO\EST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.47T          ..         ..               ..       16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTMtATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..           187.6       241.3        270.0
RURAL                                ..           ..       72.0             96.8      136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      151.0           138.4       179.7        282.5
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..            71.0       103.7        248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
P0VERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URMAN                                 ..          ..         ..            34.5        24.8         20.5
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..            48.7        37.5         35.3
Not available
Noc applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geomecric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of councries among che
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for 'ost Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Africa Souch of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Ilcome  (S281-550 per capita. 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);   If  1972;   Lj  1964;   /h  African population only;   /i  Popula-
tion;   /J   1978.
,lost Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
Augusct 1979



-26-
DEFIfTIONTS  OF SOCIASL NICATORS                                                             F9 
Notes:  Al1though the data- are    e  fro- ore  gene.rally judged the mast aathritative and reliable, it nhosid she he noted that they ny not be interna-
tionally coparable becus  of the Inck of standardised deinitions and concepts seed by differet ocotries in collecting the Ants. The data are, nontheless,
usefu  to descibe orders of magnitude, isdiate trends,=ad charnterine cetain major differes-e  betoeco c-trie..
The adJoated grou  p erg-  for eah indicator ar  ppylatioa-eighted geoetrio  -en, escudig the etre-  values of theindicator   d the most populatd
coutry isec     Dru ..o to Inch of dais, group averages of all indicators for CapitalSrpu  Oil Esprtern and ofindicators of Acces  no Water and Docrta
CDiepona,  `losig, Incom  Disitribution and Pover ty for other  -ootry groups ar  popultin-e-ighted geomtric a-n  sithoot e..clusis  of the eotren  osioo ad
the most popuated coutry.  Since the coeag   f coutries sag th  i"di-mtr- deenda on avl lbility of data and in not -ifo.-.  -atuon  ut be  _or  _ed
inrlating aveage  ofonidicao .oaohr h es-                   vrge   r   eel  sfuas appronimticas of eaeoted" -ajoes eh.s -opain  the  ale  of one
indiet-r at a ieaa t       the%  .osr  and  refrenc  group..
lAdED AREA (thousad nq.hm. )                                                            Aocesa to E.re. tpi~pon-l (percent of poplto)-ttl ubn   n   ua 
Total- Toal srfec  areaocapisin  lan  are  and inand waters.                 Nmeofppe(total, urban, an ua)sredE t"                byocet  disosa  as
Agricultura -  Mnt recet estisate of agricultural are  osed tempraily                   percetage  of their respectier populations  E-crta dispo..al any iIncud 
or per_cetly for crops, pastures, arot end kitchn gardean or to                       the c-11etios end dinponal, with or cithoot treat-et, of bong  eo,ein
o. falloo.                                                                            nod cate-wter by eater-borne nytem   or the ose cf pit privies nod s.mllar
SIPPEPCAOTA(0$)    SP pr  apia  stiate  a  curet mrht picn,       oplation'e  p'ioia  - Population divided by cober of practicing phynici-
cal1ulnted by saecnerismthod a  WrdasOAtlas (1976-78 bai)                                 ulfedfo       eialnio   tuivriylvl
196o, 1970,-ad 1978 data.                                                             PopultioN. pee  rins Pornon - Population divided by oute  of practicing nle
ENfEHGY CONSSHSCSIIN PEP CAPITA - Aonunl c-nsutios of  -o -erial esegy                    and femaS  gradonte nune, practical puse, sod ..suletantos.
(coal and lignie  poru, natural gao and hydro-, nuclea  and geo-                      Po.uatics par Hospital Bed - total, urban, and rura  - Population (total, urban,
thera_   lctiiy   in logrem   of coal1 equivalet pee capita; 1960                       and rura) divided by their respective so,ber of hospital beds avilable in
1970, and 1976 dais.                                                                    poilic and private genera  an d speciallod hostpital and rhbail.itationontero,
Hospitals ar  establinh-rets permanetly staffed by atleastione physician
POPUIATION ADii VITAL STATISTICS                                                          Establiah-tsi  providing princiPally custodial care are not included. Por..l
Total Population. Hid-Yea  (Illoa ..     do of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                 hospitals, hueeve, iulode health and medical centers ot permnetly  t.fflod
1977 data.                                                                            by a physician (but by a medical aintant, curs, aidife, etc.) which offer
Urban Popuation (percent sf total) -Patio cf urban to total population;                 In-_patientacommdation and provide a limited range of medical facilities
differest defisitions of urba  arasay affet coparability of data                    Adminnio..pr Hsital Bed - Total nuber of ndmlsions to or discharges fron
amog co 1t9e; 60h, 1970, and 1975 dota.                                              hospitals divided by the nuber of hed-.
Popltato  projections
Populatios in Year 2000 - Current populntios projections  -r  bned on              OUSING
1975 total population by age and eeo and their acrtality and fertility            AeaeShoe of Houne hold (persons Per househod)   total, urban, and rura  -
rates. fojacio  Parmeer  for acriality eaten comprise of tboe                       A boo-ebld conisto of a group of individuals who -r  liciog quartev  and
level  -naiag life cope-tany at birth increaing oith coantry'                       thsir amianlo   A boarder or lodger  ay or any not he in,loocd in the
per capita income levl,ndfemale life espetaney sthileing. at                        houshold for statistical purposes.
77.5y .earo   The p_ranter  for fert ility rate also hav  three level             Averagnmber of prsonpe  room - total, urban, and rurl - Averge ouber
assuing decline in fortuity acoring to ino-   level and pact                        ofprosper ro.a islFra,adrua   cuidcseoinideoo
fsa.ly sla_iag performane.ah coutry in then assigned one of these                   repeotivoly.  Dwellings e-lde so-permnet struture  and usc-pied p-to,
sine  ..mbinatica  of mortality and fr.tility trends for projeotios               A..es. to Electricity  pnret o   eli            -total, urban, and r,,rnI -  Con-
purpose.                                                                            cninideig              itelectriity  inivig quarters as percetage of
Stationar  cpulation-   n5staticsry populatico there is no groth                      total, urban, and rura  dneIling resp-tively.
nince the birth rate is eul to the death rate, and also the age
strutur  re,-In  contant. This in ahievd only after fertility rates             EDUCATION
deeli-e in the repl__eaet level of unit net reproduction rate, ehen               Adjusted Enro1lant Patios
eah genration, of  -oe  repl-e  itself eoatly.  Toe stnonypp-                        rmr   cei   oa. l adf-nlc-irons. total, male and fc-le  onro11-
lntioesioea-e-timated on thy basis of the projec.ted charceitc-un   falae t                                the primohy leela  peroe..tagos of repreti- primary
of tie population is the yenr 2000, and the into of decline of fertility              u-hoo1-age populntions; normally includes childre  aged 6-11 Y_ar  hu
rate to replacemet leve.                                                              adjooted fo.r differet lv-gtho of priesry edonatico; for -coostrivo w,ith
Year stationary poulation in reahed - The year when stationa.ry population              unvesa   d-ctio  enrollmet ma  soceed 100 per-et s;c- -owPuio
sine has been rsached.a   below or shv  the official school age.
Ponulntios Densityecnaysho  - tota, male ad female - Computedn   -L'e   eoocry
Per No. ka. - Mid-year population Per squar  Amme..ter (100  ectares) of                edocatio  roieat lonot four yer  of approvd printry i-ct-utioo;
total area                                                                            provides genera  vootios.al, or teanbr training  instr-otio- for p,piis
Par22 no.h. agrioulturo1 lad- Computed  a above for agiutua -ad                           _soalyof 12 to 17 y_aro of age; correpond-so   orc r  generlly
PouainAeStructur  (cer-ot) - Children (0-1u  ear), morbig-age                     on.tiona erol oas  Inreto             neodar    - Pvtio-aI institution   i-ol..d
(1-Ayas,ad retired (hO years and over) as porcetage  of mld-yar                 tehia,idsra, or other progaswihoeae_neodel ra
population; ib6o, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                  depart-nts of ...oosdsry isstitotioaa.
Poenlatiun iroeth Hate (Percen.t) - total -  noA-1  rotb races of total mid-            Pupl-;teache ra,tio - primary, and seonr  - Total otud-nts caolled io
yerppltiono for 1950-hO  1907,ad 1970-77.                                          primr  an  seoaay  evl  divided by nuber of teaher  ic tlhe-rre-
Population ronth nate  nnrcent) - ubn- Annual growth rates of orban                       spodng 1-1,s
populations for 1990-hi, 1990-70, and 1970-75.                                        Adult literacy rate (tpercnt  - L te-tendolts (able to rend and oritcra
C-d.Bifh R,.  Pr t-.  d   -Annual lirebirtho pcr thousand of aid-                ap,ortncg  of toa  adult population aged 15 y-ar  andver
rsod. Dt .t.  (.p-  h.-d)s       - Ano   d.t~pr thousad of mid-year                CSNSUPCO
79ItloE7Pu1970,7id   l97 data                                                    Paseno Dr  (p- thousad   Poulti -)             - p cg- car  o-prine actor   r
Pros pproductbo'wat  - korage number of d-nght-raosa    ill bear                       -etisg less than eight P.persn;coldn  muane,Iaoo  n    iltr
in her s-sa  reprodoctire, peiod if oh erp-ri-ne  prosen-t age-                       vehicles
specific fert ility estee; usually fiow-ywr averges ending in 1960,                 Padic Rwvei-rs (per thenoad npoulation) - All types of rcirsfor r-dio
i970, and 1975.                                                                       beondnts to general public per tbouoand of population; ooloden uslicenod
PFnily Plannin  - Accptrs =Anul th-usads)i- Anua  ome of                                reciver  in countries and in, yea-  when  egiotration of radio  -tt  en  iv
accptors of birth-ntrl _dvcsuder auPices of national family                           effect; dais for re-et years  sy sot in  -cporn.bIe si-  -tot  -outrien
planing prngrasi                                                                      abolished licening.
eandly Planing - Sores (percent of marind   m    -iP .e..tagr of maried               TV peceivero (hper thouaad Ppoplation) - TV recivers for beosdonut to ge-e-n
momen of child-bearing age (15-4  year) who on  hrth-coscro1 devi-                    pulic pe  thosndppu~latio; eclode  unicnsd TO r-ci--roinvo tri-o
to all married wons in san  age group.                                                and in yea-  when oritratio  of TOVst nineffect.
eNsca.re Cirnuntion (per thouandppla,tion) .- ibo.n tic overge cirvlatlon
001D AND NUTRITION                                                                        ofdiygnea   seet  nappr,dfined onprodclpblcto
Indew of rood Production por Capita (1969-71-100) - Indro of per capita                 denoted primarily ito  eodn    enrlsa.C  is consi.dere  th   do-ily'
anua  prodoction of all fond vommoitisa. Productice e-ldee seed mOd                   if it npe-reatcl-at four ti-sawer..k
fed and is on -a1sda  yea  basi . Cmmdities  -on  primary goods                     Cinem  Annual Attondsno  Pee Capita or ivar - Paced onhob  s-cbrof1ti.'eto
(eg -ofead ten arc e-iudd).  Aggregate production ofi each countryth units.d
Poe capitaspl ofcaoies(percet of reirgeh s)-  Computd from                        CApn FORCE
enrgy eqoivalnt of net foodT nplie_ avilble incutry per capita                    Tntal b- t   Fhoe  oece  tbluoands  - Econoically active persons, including nee
per dy. A-ilable supplies copise dometic production, imports less                   fore  and unmloyed but  -luding henseivec, otsd-sts  etc. Ef.t.o,
e-ports,and changes is st-ki.  Fet supplies  -lde anima  feed, seeds,               is vaiou  countries see ot  omparabis.
q=atitin used in fend Proc--ing, and lo.noe  1w distribution. Peqoirercnt- F.                         Paeinho  force as p-rctge of total labve force.
mas 5  ereestastd by fAl hasd ow physolgical seeds for norma                     i_j)lt_jjj~c(t( - labor force in farming, forootry, hunting and
activity and healt h __nido,rng  -nri-.etal te-pertoec, body e-ighta,               fiahing no pr-etage of total labor foc.-
agrad sec distributions of population, and allowing 10 percet for                 Industry (peroent) - tab- force in alnig,  -tn-trois, manfacturing and
oat   t house hold leve.                                                         electricity, water  In  gasa  percentag  of total labor force.
Pee capta suppy of erteis (sums peeday) - ro triwconto ' of ' pe-riciPti_u eats (peoet)   total, male and femal  -Prticipatios or
capita set supply  f 'food per day. Seoply offoo  isdfiwd a_ativity ratesaecmue   n  oa,ml,nd fml  ao   oc spr
abv. Hqoheemet  for all coutries established by OHDA pes-ide foe a                itae f total, male and female population of al ararepectively;
niim 1aalownc  of 60 gram  of total protein per day and 20 gram  of             1960,190  and   7da.Thsaryi'nptcptoneenefcig
anma  and pulse protein  of which 10 gram  should be animal poteis.                 age- en tructure of the population, and long time trend. A fes entimat-s
Ths- tandards ar  lose r than those of 75 ge-m  of tsta1 pstein and                acfro  nationa  souces
25 g9sm  of animal protein as an aveag  foe the weld, Propose d by PADO            csoi Dpewedey ..    a tin -. Patio of population andre 15 and 65 and  -ow  to
as the Tird World=on  Survey,                                                       the labor forc  in age group of 15 -96 paro.
Par capita prteinupl  from animal and puls  -_Protein supply of food
derive  foanmlanpussigrspedy,INCOME DISTRIBJTON
Chld(aes1-.)Motait Pte(pr hosad  -Anua dats  oethusnd            Peros...g ofPiae no           (both in cash and kind) - Reci-ed byrichest
is age group I    Yh yers  tocIdre  in this age grown; for most d-vl-                 5 pret rihest 20 percen.t, poorest 20 percent, andperest hO percent
opin,g -outrico data derived from life tables,                                        of housholds
HEAlTH                                                                                POVTPTT TARGELT GROTOP
life Eopetan    at Birth (yenew) - Average sober of year  of life                     Estimated Absolute Povetydincome  levl)US  pee capibta) -uban and  rurl1
remining abirth; 1990, 1970, and 1977. da.                 .Absolute poerty Incm  leve ,i  that inom  leve  beo hicb a minimal
Infant Mortalityb late (pee thousan)_A- Anua deaths of infants under ontritionlly adequate diet plu- essential no-fendrqieet  is st
Yea  of age poe thousad live births,                                                  affordable.
Anest   aeWater (serees1t of enlaie -2 itotalt_, uran  and rural              Eitimated Reaie  oet Inoe eel(3  per, capita)-_urban and rural-
Nsebr of proplo  ttl   ra,adrrl)nt   cnnbeacs  to                                      uRal relative poeet  soele            ioe-hrofargepr capita
safcter suppl  (incue        -rae   uface antee  or untreated but                     personal incom  of the coutry. Urban level is derived from the rura  leve
anonaisated mtr suc h as that from protneted boreholes, springs,                   rith adjustment for higher cot of living in o-anaras
andjsaitary mells) as percentages of their respective populations. Is               rstimated PoIPlation 1.peloc Abslut   oet Oneelvl) ec)-uban and
an urban ara a public fountai  or stsdpoat loated sot mere thanrra   Proect of Popultion (urban and rual  who ar   absoluteoo'
200   ire  from a house may he conidered as being vithls reasble
aces  of tha  hos.  Is rura  -area  re-ble anees  mould imply
that the hoseife or maser  of the houshold An mot hve to spend aEonoic and Social Pats Dicision
dlpp.rpotiosate part of the day in fetching the family, a mter needs                                                   Ec_oic Anlysis and Projections Dep-t-tee
AuWgut 1979



Annex 1
SENEGAL - ECONOMIC DEVELO8PNT DATA ShEET                                                                                    Paig  4
Aninnis                                     Enti-ates                      P-n(e-tinns/l                            Grnvth Eaten  (5)                            / Sharos in GDY
1970     1971    1972    1973    1974    1975        1976       1977    1978    1979         1989    1981   1982   1985                1970-75   1975-79   1979-85                  1970     1975    1979       l985
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(in billions of 1971 CFAF)
1   GDP                                     247      247      263      248      257      177     297         299      269      303        287    311    323    362                  2.3         2.3        3.0                 99.9   100.7   102.7   704.0
2.  TT adjnnteet                              I        -       -3       -2        6       -2       _9          -        -       -6         -8    -11      -7    -14                    -          -          -                   0.2    -0.7    -2.0    -4.0
3.  GDY                                     248      247      260      246      263      275    _288         299      269      297        279    300    316    348                   2.1        1.9        2.7                 000.0   100.0    100.0   100.0
4.  Inpo-r   (inc. RFS)                      85       82       88       84       85       86      105        116      117      109        103    107    011       125                D.2        6.1        2.3                  34.2    31.3    36.7    35.9
5.  Enpo-te (inn. NF8)                       72       64       82       64       68       77       95        102       77       86         79    100    104    120                   1.4        2.6        5.7                  29.1    28.0    28.9    34.5
6.  Exports, TT  dj.                         73       64       79       62       74       75       86        102       77       80         71      89      97    106                 0.5        1.6        4.8                  29.3    27.3    26.9    30.4
7.  REs.  gaps 7T sd.                       -12      -18       -9      -22      -11      -11      -19        -14      -40      -29        -32    -18    -14    -19                     -           -          -                 -4.9    -4.0    -9.8    -5.5
8.  CnnsnmpLiin                             221      225      225      223      225      243      257        266      261      278        265    268    278    309                   L.9        3.4         1.8                 89.2    88.4    93.6    88.8
9.  Cross Innetment                          39       40       44       45       49       43       50         47       48       48         46      50      52      58                2.0        2.8        3.2                  15.7    15.6    16.2    16.7
10.  Privane Cnvelt-ent                       19       17       23       18       20       15       18         19       25       21         20      20      21      23               -4.6        8.8        1.5                   7.7      5.4      7.1      6.6
11.  Public Investment                        12       14       12       17       18       19       21         21       18       22         22      26      27      31                9.6        3.7        5.9                   4.8      6.9      7.4       8.8
12.  Change in stonk                           8        9        9       10       11        9       11          7        5       10          4       4       4       4                  -           -          -                  3.2      3.3      3.4       1.1
13.  Donentin Savings, TT sdj.                27       22       35       23       38       32       31         33        8       19         14      32      38      39                3.5      -12.7       12.7                  10.8    11.6       6.4    11.2
14.  National Sa Tings,       sfdj.           32       30       42       28       40       33       35         35       14       18         14      30      36      37                0.6      -14.1       12.8                  12.9    11.9       6.1      10.6
15.  GDP (in mEn of  ncurent S)              854      892    1085    1247    1411    1900    1914            1947    2003    2479         2633   3108   3525   5104                  17.3        6.9        12.8                     -       -         -        -
B.  SECTER OUTPUT
1.  Valve Addnd                             247      247      263      248      257      277      297        299      269      303        287    310    323    362                   2.3        2.3         3.0                1oO8O    100.0   108.0   100.0
2.  Agriculotne                              59       52       62       54       59       72       79         74       64       81         70      84      88    100                 4.0        3.0         3.3                 23.9    26.0    26.7       27.6
3.  Indostry                                 53       54       56       54       60       64       69         72       64       70         67      74      80      94                3.8        2.3        5.0                  21.5    23.1    23.1    26.0
4.  Priva-t  Snevixes                       108      112      116      1iC      I11      113      119        120      108      118        116    119    120    133                   0.9        1.0         2.0                 43.7    40.8    39.0    36.7
5.  Public Servixes                          27       29       29       29       27       28       30         33       33       34         34      34      35      35                0.7        5.0         1.0                 10.9    LO.      11.2       9.7
C. PR1CE INDICES (1971-1003
1.  Enpnnt Prince  (goods only)              92      108      100      121      221      192      169        209      215      215        238    258    294    345                  15.9        2.9        8.2
2.  Inport Prices                            91      100      107      129      194      198      194        210      214      239        279    302    326    409                  16.8        4.8         9.4
3.  Te-e  of Trsde                          101      100       94       94      114       97       87        100      100       90         85      85      90      84               -0.8       -1.9       -1.1                                                         >,
4.  CDP Dleflton                             97      108      104      112      132      147      154        160      168      174        190    207    226    292                   8.7        4.3        10.9
5.  Co__osiar Pricen/2                       96      100      106      118      138      181      183        204      211      233        268    295    324    432                  13.5        6.5        10.8
6.  Fined Inv.sntent Prices                  99      100      106      114      138      166      167        180      195      208        229    252    277    368                  10.9         5.8       10.0
7.  Elch. Rste (CPAF pee US$)             277.7   277.0   252.2   222.7   240.5   214.3   239.0            245.7   225.6   212.7        207.1  207.1  207.1  207.1                     -           -          -
D.  SELECTED INDICATOESL/                    1960/65  1965/70  1970/7514   i979i88L 1980/85                                                                                                      E.  LABOR PFOCE (1971)           Thounssd    Percent
1.  icoDL                                   2.4       8.1       4.7         11.7         3.9                                                                                                      1.  Agrlcult-rn                 812          69.4
2.  Av. Not. Savings Rati                  11.5       9.4      13.4          8.1        10.8                                                                                                      2.  Mining                         2          0.2
3. Mar. Nat.  Savings RstaLf              -15.6      18.2      14.3        -88.2        28.6                                                                                                      3.  MnoSsntonieg                  69          5.9
4.  Fined Inve-t.ent/G5P                   12.6      12.5      17.1         16.7        16.6                                                                                                      4.  Poblic Utiliti-e               4          0.3
5.  Inport Elsatinity...-                  -0.8      -.1        0.90         1.85        0.86                                                                                                     5.  Consr.t-xtln                  17          1.5
6.  Inpnrts/GDP                            32.0      29.9      32.9         38.4        35.5                                                                                                      6.  Pnivete Services             115          9.8
7.  Enp-nta/GDP                            28.9      24.9      27.4         29.1        30.7                                                                                                      7.  Publin Services              127         10.9
8.  Seseon   Cap/GDP                       -3.1      -5.0      -5.5         -9.3        -4.0                                                                                                      8.  Other                         24          21
Totsl                      1170         100.0
P.  PUBLIC FINANCE
(is billiSne of current CFAP                                          Antuals                                Istiestis               Proiecti.ns                          Groith Rate (%)                              2 Shate in Cuoent CDP
and finnal ye-sr) /8                    FY71    FY72    FY73    FY74    FY75    FY76    FY77            FY78      FY79       FY80   FYB1   FY85                FY71-75   FY75-80   FY80-85                    FY71   FY75   FY79   FY8/11FY85
1.  Bldget Revenera                        46.4    53.1    55.1    55.4    77.3    87.2   104.8            110.1    129.3       160.0  174.0  280.0                 13.6        15.7       11.8                  19.0   20.7   26.4   29.8   28.4
2. forent E-p. (en.. irteres-t)            42.3    45.1    50.3    48.9    65.8    80.2    86.3             97.6    104a7       138.0  138.0  202.0                 11.7        14.6        9.2                   17.3   17.6    21.4   24.2   20 5
3.  Sodg. San. before Debt Servixe          4.1      8.0      4.8      6.5    11.5       7.0    18.5        12.5      24.6       30.0   36.0   78.0                     -          -          -                    l.7    3.1    5.8    5.6       7.9
4.  Other Public Savings/9                  1.5      2.2      2.4      7.2      0.3      4.8    10.2         3.6       2.0        4.0    7.0        -                   -          _         -                     0.6    0.1     0.4    0.7
5.  Pobl. San. b.fOne  Debt Sorvics         5.6    10.2       7.2    13.7    11.8    11.8    28.7           16.1      26.6       34.0   43.0   78.0                    -           -          -                   2.3    3.2      5.4    6.3      7.9
6.  Debt 8ervice                            2.5      1.1      1.8      2.5      4.0      8.7    10.5        16.3      21.9       26.0   31.0   55.0                 12.5        45.4       16.2                    1.0    1.1    4.5    4.8       5.6
7.  Ineestabli  Sorplas                     3.1      9.1      5.4    11.2       7.8      3.1    18.2        -0.2       4.7        8.0   12.0   23.0                     -          -          -                   1.3    2.1      0.9    1.5      2.3
8.  Public Invea          IOenrs/10  1:77           IT. 1T               !    3rf3      4IT                                                                                      I ,.  5075  6rT 773  i=rT  28.3  11.4  17.0  5.3    9.4   1   11.2    13.4
9.  Percestage of self fin.n.isg (5)   24.0    68.4    33.5    38.4    22.3              7.7    40.0        eng.       9.3       13.3   16.6   21.2
10. Debt Service in pernentaSe of
.enenoes (5)                        5.4      2.1       3.3      4.5     5.2    10.0    10.0         14.8       16.9       16.3   17V8   19.6
fL  These pr-jetni.o. seaso.   that Gov,esneet a etabiliastion plas sill be isple-entad.
/2  Cnst of lvieg ilden of traditional families in D-kar.
3  Ctaloslatd free nal- es in correct peices  e no.s..nt prices adjosted for rhan-so is rei-s Ef reads.
A  Adjoated fee tes of trade where appropriate.
LA  CalnoSated en three y.aes  average of GDP and the five  -ears  eUD of fised ievest-tenx  in renstant prices.
/6  Caloolated on three years aneagna far the base years fe earrest prines.
7 Caleslated en three ya-ra averages fee the base pears in nonretnt pninsa.
9  piscai pears -fm July 1 ti  Jose 30.
LA  Inlude- r-viegs free Stsbiliaation FPnd ged poblic ente-priass.
/10  Public  Sn-stut. as defised by the MIeSinrty of Pla.nsfg;  -ostresy eo the eatiesal ccoonti definitine, these figera- inninde the fall costs of projects in nined
enteepeises in shinh G-vstn,eot takes a ajar fin.anial re-posaibility, project cnaponents that do not rep.esnet fined capital formatior, rese-rch peoje-ts and sose eilit-sy npendit-rns.
/11  Perceetags are high because of the Ins GDP in 1980.
Febru-ry 1980



- 28 -
SENEGAL:  BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE                                             ANNEX  S
Page 5
(millions of current U. S. dollars)
A.tuala                                EStimates                                   Pro l-ti...
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976             1977     1978    1979           1980    1981    1992       1983    1984    1985
A.  SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Exports, itol. NFS                                    333      355      602      693      698          869       735      900          948   1,296   1,523   1,697   1,911   2,177
2.  Inports, iSor. NFS                                   -373     -483    -691    -793       -852         -989  -1,108  -1,229          -1,390  -1,558  -1,748  -1,958  -2,195   2,462
3.  Resource balance                                      -40    -128       -89    -100    -154           -120    -373    -329            -442    -262    -225    -261    -284    -285
4.  Factor services net                                   -23      -29      -48      -55       -8           -37     -29      -62           -72    -106    -107    -114    -124    -139
Net investment income                           -12      -17      -26      -37      -23          -36      -34      -49           -50      -70      -74      -84      -94    -108
Interest public debt                             -5       -7      -14      -19      -18          -21      -29      -44           -49      -49      -48      -48      -48      -49
Other interest                                    3        3        2       -3       -I            -4       -4      -12          -19      -38      -41      -44      -49      -56
Workers' reittances                             -20      -18      -20       -6       17            18       27       30           31       34       38       42       46       50
Other                                            11       10       10       10       12             6       11       13           15       16       18       20       21       24
5.  Ce-ent transfers (oet)                                 50       56       64       67       66           65        95      63            76       79       87       90       97      104
6.  Current account balance                               -13    -101       -73      -88      -96           -92    -307    -328           -438    -289    -245    -285    -311    -320
7.  Private capital (net)                                   2      -15       -5       12       16           42        56       69           74       88      100      113      133      151
8.  Capital grants                                          8       19       19       22       23            24       29       26           24       32       32       41       41       41
9.  Public Pl + LT loans (net)                             11       78       60       56       60            56      135      134          116       93      115      104       98      107
Disb-rsenerts                                    19      100       80       76       84           92      204      212           223      198      214      205      205      220
Repayments                                       -8      -22      -20      -20      -24          -36       -69     -78          -107    -105       -99    -101    -107    -113
10.  Short-tern capital (net) a                            -12        3       23       10       -            -24       -9      -10           -8       -        -        -        -        -
11.  Cspital n.o.i. 5                                        7      -28      -31      -22      -13           -14        3aL    20/L4         21/15   72/16  -14        -14      -14      -14
12.  Net financing need                                     -        -        -        -        -             -        -        -           107/19   99/20   67         76       03       60
13.  Incresas  in resarves (+)                               3       44        7       10       10             8       93       90         -104       93       5s       35       30       25
14.  Level of net foreign assets (end of the year)    23            -15      -25      -48      -45           -53    -159    -236           -348    -268    -228    -208    -193    -183
B.  LOAN CO1ISIT8ENTS                                           50      181       70      135      127          215      356      125           360      303      330      355     406      431
1.  IBRD                                                   16        1        3        7       26           20/3    11         7             8       25       60       30       40       40
2.  IDA                                                    11       24       -        25       11            -       26        25           37       38       25       26       20       20
3.  OPECPFnds                                              -        -        -         4                      3        4       -            -        -        -        -        -        -
4.  Other internati.nal inatitstiona                        1        2       10        6       12            21       27/17   46/18         14       21       19       23       25       26
5.  France                                                  7        5       16       13       27            28       27       18           33       36       40       44       48       53
6.  Germnay                                                 -        -       17        3        5             4        2       -            15       16       17       19       19       22
7.  Canada                                                  4        3       -         8        4             5       -        -             2        2        2        2        2        2
8.  OPEC countries                                          -        2        9       -         4            -        38/11    6             8        9       10       11       13       14
9.  Other bilateeri                                         3L4    505        4/6    215       -             128    2/9    15/10            20       20       23       25       27       30
10.  OMVS (Dia  das)                                        _-                                    -                                         11312   -          -        -        -        -
11.  Suppliers                                               2       14        3        1       10            22       10        3           10       15       20       30       30       30
12.  Financial institutions and private banks                6       80        8       47       28           100      190        6           -        -        -        -        -        -
13.  Gress financing need                                                                                                                   108      121      114      145      182      194
C.  LOAN TERMS
1.  Interest (7h)                                         4.1      5.8      4.7      4.8      6.1          7.6       6.9     3.9           5.3      6.5      6.7      6.9      7.2      7.2
2.  Grace (years)                                         6.3      6.1      6.3      6.5      5.6    -    3.6        3.7     6.4           5.5      4.3      4.2      3.4      3.6      3.6
3.  Maturity (ye-rs)                                     30.2    19.8    27.5    23.4    20.1             12.7    13.7    23.7            23.2    20.2    18.9    17.8    16.5    16.5
4.  Gr-nt element (h)                                    47.0    29.0    39.0    40.0    28.2             13.6    18.9    43.9            34.4    24.5    21.6    20.7    18.2    18.3
5.  Debt service ratio  (7.)                              3.7      7.7      5.4      5.3      5.5          6.4    12.8    13.2            16.1    14.1    13.6    14.0    14.5    15.0
a Includes errors and omissions.
2   Includes IMF trust fPnd and SDR allocations, STAEEX loans and differences between public capital inflow  as recorded by the Central BSnk and by the IBRD debt report.
53  Includes US $14 million Third Window funds.
5   Denmark.
5  People's Repsblic of China tC  finance inports of Chinese surpluses ($10.4 million disbursed so far).
t6  $4 million frem U. S. A.
/7  Includes US  $17.4 million co-it-ment fr   Spaipn and $3.5 sillion from Denmark.
5   US AID.
/9  Spain.
/10  $12.8 million fros  Japan and $2 million from  the United Kingdom.
/11 $37 million from Saudi Arabia and $1 million fr.. Abu Dhibi.
/12  A. estimated share of 75% in the $150 million cost of the Dissma dan:  France $52 million, Saudi Arabia $37 million, Kuwait $35 million and African Development Bank
$26 million.
/13  Includes STABEX $23.5 nillion.
/14  Includea STABEX $63.5 million.
/15  Includes $13 million SDR allocation and STABEX $22.7 million (estimated).
/16  Includes STABRX $86.9 million  (estimated).
/17  Includes $17.6 million IMF Trust Fund.
/18  Includes $13.4 rillion IMP Trust Fund, $19.6 million Afri.an Development Bank and $12.8 million European Investment Bank.
/19  The total fi.nseing need aounts to $242 million in 1980 including $104 million  fall in reserve;s  $22.7 million STABRX snd $8 million short-tern capital.
/20  The total financing need amounts to $91 million in 1981 including  $86.9 million STAREX, but an improvement in reserves of $95 million.
February 1980.



Annex I
Page 6
SENEGAL - DEBT AND CREDITlORTHINESS
(millions of current US Dollars)
Actuals                            Estimates                                   Proiections
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976        1977    1978     1979        1980     1981      1982     1983     1984     1985
A. MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM
DEBT (Disbursed only)
1. Total Public Debt Outstanding                138.6  203.2  248.3   295.1  350.4          417.1  581.7   716.2           932.8  1125.4  1308.0  1488.6   1670.9  1838.6
2. Including undisbursed                        219.2  367.2  420.4  522.8  616.6           814.5  1156.0  1203.2         1177.0   1457.4  1736.6  2013.6   2301.6  2564.3
3. Public Debt Service                           13.4   29.4    33.4   39.3   42.3           56.5    98.1    122.0         156.3    186.3    212.4   243.2   285.2    336.6
a.  Interest:                                 4.9     7.2    13.8    18.4   18.1         20.6    29.2    44.1           49.3     59.4    67.6      73.4    80.7      89.7
1. on projected aid                         -       -       -       -       -           -       -        -             -    49.2      48.0    47.6      48.0     49.4
2. on additional capital needs              -       -       -       -       -           -       -         -            -     10.2     19.6    25.8      32.7    40.3
b. Amortization:                              8.5    22.2   19.6    20.9   24.2          35.9   68.9      77.9         107.0   126.9    144.8   169.9   204.5   247.0
1. on projected aid                         -       -       -       -       -           -       -        -             -    105.4    99.1   101.5    107.1    113.3
2. on additional capital needs              -       -       -       -       -           -       -        -             -     21.5     45.7     68.4     97.4    133.7
4. Other H & LT Debt Service
a. Other Interest
b. Amortization
5. Total Debt Service
6. Net Investment Income                         12.0    17.0   26.0   37.0   23.0           35.8    33.6    48.9           50.2     70.0     74.0    84.0      94.2    108.7
7. Total payment on foreign capital              25.4   46.4   59.4   76.3   65.3            92.3  131.7    170.9          206.5   256.3    286.4   327.2    379.4   445.3
B. DEBT BURDEN
1. Public Debt Service Ratio                      3.7     7.7     5.4     5.3     5.5         6.4    12.8    13.2           16.1    14.1      13.6    14.0      14.5      15.0
2. Payment on Foreign Capital Ratio               7.2    12.3    9.5    10.4    8.5          10.4   17.1       18.4         21.2     19.4     18.4    18.8      19.3      19.9
3. Public Debt Service/GDP                        1.2     2.4     2.4     2.1     2.2         2.9     4.9      4.9           5.9      6.0      6.0      6.1      6.3       6.6
4. Public Debt Service/Govt. Revenue/l            2.1     3.3    4.5      5.2   10.0  -    10.0    14.8       16.9          16.3    17.8       -        -        -        19.6
C. TERMS
1. Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                3.5     3.5     5.6     6.2     5.2         4.9     5.0      6.2           5.3      5.3      5.2      4.9      4.8       4.9
2. Public Debt Service/Total DOD                  9.7    14.5    13.6    13.3    12.1        13.5    16.8      17.0         16.8     16.6    16.2      16.3      17.1    18.3
0. DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M & LT DEBT/2
1. Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl.services)   5.1    20.71/  10.4    8.5       9.0         8.8    17.4    16.1           22.2     18.9    17.2    16.4    16.1    15.2
2. Net Transfer/Imports (incl. services)          2.6   14.6      7.8     6.3     6.5         5.4    11.5      10.1          7.8      5.5      6.1      4.9      4.1       4.0
3. Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements               0.58    0.78    0.75    0.74    0.71        0.61    0.66      0.63         0.52     0.47     0.54     0.51      0.48     0.49
E. EXPOSURE
1. IBRD Disb./Total Gross Disbursements           1.9     0.7     1.5     9.3     5.6        14.1     3.2      5.0           3.7      4.5      5.8      7.0       7.5      7.9
2. bank Group Disb./Total Gross Disbursements   23.7      3.9   20.9   24.9   19.9           22.6      7.6     13.2          8.0      9.8     12.6    14.2       13.9     13.8
3. IBRD DOD/Total DOD                             1.7     1.4     1.3     3.4    4.2          6.5     5.5      5.8           5.6      5.8      6.3      7.0      7.7       8.6
4. Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                      13.1    13.3   14.2   18.1   19.9           21.6    17.9    18.3           16.6     16.4    17.1    18.1        19.1    20.2
5. IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service           3.0     1.8     1.9     1.9     2.9         3.6     4.2       3.2          3.1      3.3      3.3      4.0      4.2       4.1
6. Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service    3.8      2.1     2.5     2.6     3.7         4.6     4.8       3.8          3.7      4.0      4.1      4.8      4.9       4.9
F. EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed only)                                      Outstanding Dec. 31, 1979                       Outstanding December 1985
Amount            Percent                      Amount             Percent
1. IBRD                                                              41.8               5.8                         156.0               8.4
2. IDA                                                               89.0              12.4                         212.0              11.5
3. Other Multilateral                                                81.0              11.3                         335.5              18.2
4. Governments                                                      259.4              36.2                         571.9              31.1
5. Suppliers' Credits and Financial Institutions                    245.0              34.2                          69.3               3.8
6. Others                                                               -                 -                         493.9              26.9
7. Total Public M & LT Debt                                         716.2             100.0                        1838.6             100.0
8. Total Public M & LT Debt (incl. undisbursed)                    1203.2             168.0                        2564.3             139.5
G. TOTAL DEBT SERVICE 1980-85/DOD end-1979              198.3%
/I Debt Service to be paid by the Treasury only (fiscal years).
/2  Public debt only.
/3  High Eurodollar borrowing to finance Government's participation policy.
February 1980.



- 30 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1979)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                          (US$ Million)
Credit Number  Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Three Loans* and twelve Credits fully disbursed            7.0    50.1
835-SE      1972   Regie des   Railway                 6.4                0.1
Chemins de
fer du Senegal
336-SE      1972   Senegal      Housing Site
and Services                 8.0        2.7
866-SE      1973   OPTS         Telecommunications   6.2                  0.9
366-SE      1973   Senegal      Second Highway                 8.0        0.2
987-SE      1974   SOFISEDIT   Development Finance  3.0                   0.2
530-SE      1975   Senegal      Education                      15.0       6.2
1113-SE      1975   Senegal      Agric. Diversifi-
cation               7.0                 6.6
578-SE      1976   Senegal      Terres Neuves II               2.0        0.1
1221T-SE      1976   Senegal      Feeder Roads           6.6                2.5
1222-SE      1976   Senegal      Third Highway         15.0                4.4
633-SE      1976   Senegal      Livestock                       4.2       3.2
647-SE      1976   Senegal      Second Sedhiou                  6.3       3.8
1332-SE      1976   SOFISEDIT   Second Development
Finance             4.2                 2.6
1405T-SE      1977   Senegal      Port of Dakar          6.0                3.1
1412T-SE      1977   Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism  8.0                   6.1
1413-SE      1977   Senegal      Petite Cote Tourism  5.6                  4.3
764-SE     1978   Senegal       Para-Public Sector
Tech. Asst.                  6.3        4.3
775-SE     1978   Senegal       Irrigation                    20.0       14.3
1518-SE      1978   RCFS         Railways III          11.0      -         8.5
1665-SE      1979   ASECNA       Second Airport         7.0      -         7.0
S-23-SE      1979   Senegal      Water Supply Engr.   -          2.5        2.5
908-SE       1979   Senegal      Education III          -       22.0      21.6
Total                                     93.0   144.4       105.2
of which has been repaid                 6.1     0.5
Total now outstanding                     86.9   143.9
Amount sold                       3.4
of which has been repaid        2.6
0.8
Total now held by  Bank and IDA 1/        86.1   143.9
Total Undisbursed                         46.3    58.9       105.2
*    A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in
1969 was cancelled on MIarch 25, 1971.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of December 31, 1979)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Year         Obligor             Type of Business      Loan   Investment   Total
1967   Societe Industrielle    Fertilizer Plant        2.45        1.01      3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972)  BUD Senegal
1973)  S.A.                     Vegetable Export        -          0.87      0.87
1976)
1974   SOFISEDIT                Development
Finance Company        -          0.21      0.21
Total Gross Commitments                         2.45        2.09     4.54
Less Cancellations, Terminations                2.45        1.04     3.49
Total Commitments now held by IFC                 0         1.05     1.05
Undisbursed Balance
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 314/     Second Railway Project; US$2.2 Million and US$6.4 Million
Ln. 835       Credit and Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective December 29, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow, and inadequate traffic
performance led to decreasing revenues and acute financial problems. Some
Loan/Credit funds had to be reallocated from appraised items to the provision
of badly needed spare parts by deleting some project elements, notably
reduction of the procurement of rails and fittings from a planned 170 km to
125 km, of which only 28 km were laid under the project because of lack of
local funds. The project is now virtually complete, and efforts to improve
the Railway's efficiency are continuing under the ongoing Third Railway
Project (Loan 1518).
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 336      Sites and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation started slowly, but is now proceeding satis-
factorily following agreements reached with the Government in October 1978 to
improve performance. The main problem affecting the project has been plot
consolidation and occupancy, but this is now accelerating with the assistance
of a loan scheme by the project agency (OHLM) and the Senegalese national
development bank (BNDS), which is now fully operational. Site development has
also been hindered by the absence of on-site employment opportunities other
than construction-related activities; a recently created unit in OHLM is
currently examining this problem and preparing proposals.
Ln. 987      SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
SOFISEDIT was created in March 1974 for the purpose of providing
long-term financing for developing enterprises in industry and tourism. The
first line of credit of US$3 million is now fully committed, and a second
loan (Ln. 1332) is under disbursement. A Project Completion Report is being
prepared.
Ln. 866      Telecommunications Project; US$6.3 million Loan of December 19,
1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,_1980.
The project was designed to improve the quality of telecommunica-
tions service in Dakar and in parts of northern Senegal. Completion of
project implementation took about three years longer than originally scheduled
maialy because of delays in procurement, resulting cost overruns, and changes
in top management. The physical works are now completed, and the installation
has been successfully commissioned. The Borrower has made significant efforts
over the past two years to improve its management, as well as its accounting
and financial organization. This, together with the audits and financial
advisors financed under the Parapublic Sector Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 764) is expected to result in substantial improvement of the institution.
Cr. 366      Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1973;
Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project consists of pavement strengthening of primary roads,
a four-year maintenance program, and preinvestment studies. All project items
are now satisfactorily completed. The strengthening program however had to
be reduced from 110 km to about 35 km as a result of higher costs than estimated
at appraisal, and high inflation during implementation; the remaining 75 km
were strengthened under the ongoing Third Highway Project (Ln 1222). The
objectives of the maintenance program were not entirely met due to management
problems and insufficient allocation of local funds, and the technical
assistance had to be extended under the Third Highway Project. Preinvestment
studies were successfully completed and taken into account in planning of
subsequent projects. Only fellowships awarded under the project remain to be
completed.



- 33 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. 530      Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of February 19,
1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule because
of earlier delays in design and contract awards. These delays, together with
a 10% decline in the value of the US Dollar, resulted in a cost overrun of
about US$6 million. To help compensate for these increased costs, the
Government requested, and the Association has formally agreed, to reduce the
scope of the project by reducing the number of science centers from 11 to 8,
the number of rural youth training centers from 30 to 15, and by deleting
from the project the construction and equipment for the Hotel School and
seeking another source of external financing for this component. The Indus-
trial Training and Upgrading Center has started training courses in all
trades. Construction and equipping of the Merchant Marine School have been
completed. Construction of the science centers and lower secondary schools
was satisfactorily completed at end-1979 (except for one science center in
Saint Louis which was late in starting and will not be ready until early
1981). Procurement of furniture and equipment is progressing on schedule.
The rural youth training component is still experiencing some implementation
difficulties; but modified educational objectives and a revised implementation
schedule have been agreed with the Government, and all the centers are
expected to be in operation by end-1981.
Cr. 549      Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million Credit and
Ln 1113      US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective october 31, 1975
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The objective of the project is to improve productivity of small
farms through intensification of farmers' agricultural practices, particularly
through increased use of fertilizer and heavy equipment. However, results
over the first three years of the project show that yield increases have been
negligible. Re-orientation efforts were undertaken in agreement with the
Bank, and more emphasis was put on actions which had met favorable results
such as promotion of maize production in the south of the project region, and
integration of agriculture and animal husbandry in the north. Despite these
efforts, and although rainfall has recently been better than average, the
project has still not shown any improvement in additional production or
yields, a result largely of serious management and staffing problems, and an
ineffective extension service. It was therefore decided, in agreement
with the Government and the co-financer CCCE, to re-appraise the project in
an attempt to find new workable solutions to the existing problems. A joint
re-appraisal was carried out in November 1979, and the mission's recommenda-
tions are now being discussed with the Government.



- 34 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. 578      Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project; US$2.0 2Million Credit of August 6, 1975;
Effective November 14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project, which is a follow-up to an earlier re-settlement
operation, consists of settling 600 families over a three-year period in the
Eastern Senegal Region, and providing the necessary infrastructure; and
preparing a master plan for agricultural development of the region. The
settlement program has been progressing satisfactorily, although about one
year behind schedule, and should be completed by early 1980. The master plan
study has been completed, on the basis of which an Agricultural Development
Project for Eastern Senegal is now being prepared.
Ln. 1221-T   Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of improvement of about 1,000 km of feeder
roads and maintenance of about 250 km of existing roads; purchase of highway
equipment and spare parts, and materials and supplies for project operations;
technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring; construction
of HQ building for the Bureau des Pistes de Production. The project had been
experiencing serious delays caused by insufficient financial, managerial, and
logistic support; but on the recommendation of and in agreement with the Bank,
the Government undertook a series of measures to accelerate works, and
progress has improved considerably. Works executed so far are of satisfactory
technical quality.
Ln. 1222      Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 5, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project consists of pavement strengthening of about 200 km of
primary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvest-
ment studies, highway maintenance, and development of the domestic construc-
tion industry. The project is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule.
The pavement strengthening program has been completed. The road maintenance
program begun under the Second Highway Project, and extended under this
project, will be further continued under the proposed Fourth Highway Project
to strengthen the maintenance organization and operations. As a result of
currency realignments and a civil works execution period that was shorter than
planned, an amount of about US$2.5 million became available under the loan;
the Bank has agreed to the Government's proposals to use these funds to cover
the foreign cost of extending technical assistance for road maintenance,
improving workshops and training center buildings, and procuring workshop and
training equipment.



- 35 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. 633      Eastern Senegal Livestock Proje_t; US$4.2 Million Credit of
June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to assist about 30,000 pastoralists in
Eastern Senegal through improved grazing and herd management practices,
development of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal
health services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program.  Parallel
financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. Project implementa-
tion is progressing satisfactorily and on schedule, except for the firebreaks
component which had been held up pending BADEA's agreement about their con-
struction plans; this has recently been obtained, and firebreak construction
is now scheduled to start at the end of the rainy season. Livestock producers
appear to be giving full support to the project.
Cr. 647      Second Sedhiou Project; US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural and
livestock production through improved farming and husbandry practices.
Project implementation has been going reasonably well until the past season
when production was severely affected by the failure of ONCAD (the national
cooperative and marketing agency) to supply fertilizers as needed. In addi-
tion, the project's overall efficiency is hampered by administrative problems
similar to those being encountered in the Sine Saloum Project (Loan 549/Credit
1113) discussed above. The project has achieved its objectives in total area
cultivated and number of participants; however, findings of the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit show that project impact could be reduced, primarily because
participating farms show no significant yield increases (except for rice) over
those farms outside the project, and because the area cultivated per partici-
pant is smaller than expected. W7ork on the agricultural development plan for
the Casamance Region by the project's Planning Unit is now completed, and
further detailed studies are underway.
Ln. 1332      Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
In addition to providing SOFISEDIT with a second line of credit for
industrial and tourism investments, the Loan has helped finance a pilot scheme
of assistance to small-scale Senegalese artisans through SONEPI, the local
industrial promotion agency. As of September 30, 1979, SOFISEDIT had new
approvals (since its inception) of CFAF 3.6 billion, and disbursements had
reached CFAF 2.2 billion. 17hen the latest sub-project applications now under
review are processed, the Loan will be fully committed. SOFISEDIT remains
nevertheless a fragile institution operating in a difficult environment. As a
result, future operations would concentrate on strengthening SOFISEDIT,
streamlining its industrial policies and administration, and improving the
promotion of artisans and of small- and medium-scale enterprises.



- 36 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7
Ln. 1405-T   Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1977;
Effective March 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Following a slow start caused mainly by time-consuming Government
procedures, project implementation is now satisfactory. Civil works are
expected to be completed by September 1980, only four months later than the
appraisal target. The quality of contractors' workmanship is very good,
and about 900 meters of new quays have already been put into use. All the
technical assistance services and studies are progressing satisfactorily.
Overall performance of the Port Authority remains satisfactory, but there are
continuing problems with receivables, statistics, and recruitment and reten-
tion of qualified staff.
Ln. 1412-T    Petite Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln.-1413       Loans of June 7, 1977; Effective January 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project includes construction of infrastructure and common
facilities for hotel development on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area
where lack of infrastructure has so far limited such development; a program
of works for preservation and development of Goree Island; and technical
assistance and studies to improve planning, promotion, and training in the
hotel sector. Construction of infrastructure works at the Sali project area
continues to proceed satisfactorily. Major works are nearing completion, and
areas designated for hotel construction should be ready for delivery during
1980. The construction contract for the common recreation center and commer-
cial areas has been signed. Bidding documents for the Goree component
were recently approved by the Bank. The Government has recently requested
the Bank to consider reallocation of US$3.5 million of Loan funds originally
intended for construction of a pilot hotel at Sali to provide long-term
financing for hotel construction at the site. Negotiations to that effect
were satisfactorily completed on February 1, 1980.
Ln. 1518     Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17, 1978;
Effective August 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance, supply of
material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications facilities and
track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, strengthening of training programs and facilities, and studies.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. Contracts for most of the
items for track renewal and maintenance have been signed, and the rest are in
an advanced stage of finalization. Almost half of the total order of locomo-
tive spare parts have been received.  The training program is progressing
satisfactorily. Consultants have been selected for the study into optimum
structure and ownership of the Senegal Railway (together with the connecting
Mali Railway), and work has started. Railway traffic in the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1979 was slightly below that of the previous year due basically
to reduced motive power availability stemming from major accidents; this
situation is expected to improve following the recent delivery of two new
high-power locomotives, as well as critical spare parts for the locomotive
rehabilitation program.



- 37 -                        APINEX II
Page 8
Cr. 764      Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project: UTS$6.3 Million
Credit of March 17, 1978; Effective June 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of a three-year program to help improve the
efficiency of Government organizations charged with strategic analysis,
operational supervision, and formal financial control over the para-public
sector; and upgrading the auditing, financial management, and accounting
procedures for the sector as a whole and for a number of the most important
public enterprises and mixed companies. Consulting services and technical
assistance are in place, and work is well underway. Overall guidance and
direction by Project Management had not been very effective, but Government
has recently taken some very positive measures to remedy this situation.
Introductory training seminars for Government administrators and staff in the
control organizations have begun, with more intensive and specialized courses
planned to start by early 1980. The audit component is progressing well, and
there is already some improvement in the follow-up of audit recommendations.
Cr. 775      Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
March 17, 1978; Effective June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project provides for development of 2,220 ha through full
water control irrigation in the Senegal River Delta, and construction of
related facilities; technical assistance to the project authority SAED;
consulting services for applied research and studies for future development
of the River Valley. Works on the Lampsar perimeter are progressing satis-
factorily, and completion of land development is expected by mid-1980.
Work on the Debi perimeter (financed by the Kuwait Fund under a parallel
financing arrangement) is expected to start shortly. Four of the five
technical assistants provided by the French PAC have been recruited to
strengthen SAED. Construction of project headquarters and training center
are expected to start by early 1980. Consultants for the studies are being
selected in consultation with the Association.
Ln. 1665      Second Aviation Project: US$7.0 Million Loan of April 18, 1979;
Effective November 15, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of strengthening and levelling the main
runway and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport, and
installation of navigation and visual approach aids at regional airports at
Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring. Design work and bidding procedures for the Dakar
airport have been satisfactorily completed, and work is expected to start
shortly. Equipment procurement is underway.



ANNEX II
- 38 -                        Page 9
Cr. S-23     Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project;
US$2.5 Million Credit of May 23, 1979; Effective August 10,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides for economic, financial, and technical studies
to prepare a priority investment project for rehabilitation and extension of
water supply systems in eleven secondary centers, including six regional
capitals; and technical assistance to strengthen the planning and operating
entities in the sector. Consultants have been selected in agreement with the
Association.
Cr. 908      Third Education Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of May 23, 1979;
Effective August 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is designed to increase the supply of high- and middle-
level technicians and managers required for the modern agricultural and
industrial sectors; improve and expand secondary technical and vocational
education; and improve the quality of primary education and establish a solid
base for its future expansion, especially in rural areas. Architectural
design work on the major project institutions is progressing satisfactorily,
and tenders for about 70% of the total civil works are expected to be invited
by early 1980. Preparation of bidding documents for equipment for the technical
and vocational schools is proceeding satisfactorily. The Project Unit
established under earlier education projects has been strengthened and is
operating efficiently. Some delays have occurred in the recruitment of
technical assistance personnel, but key experts are expected to be in place by
early 1980.



- 39 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1
SITPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: two years (end 1976-end
1978) under Third Highway Project.
(b)  Agency which prepared the project;  Government and consultants,
assisted by Bank staff.
(c) First Bank mnission to consider the project: November 1976
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: November 1978
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: January 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1980
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions:
None
Section III: Special Conditions:
The Government would:
(a) issue and publish: (i) a decree reorganizing the Poad Fund;
and (ii) an arrete establishing a special account (caisse d'avance),
to be replenished by the Road Fund to ensure timely availability of
funds for minor road maintenance expenses, as and when needed
(Conditions of Effectiveness, para. 39);
(b) ensure that the Road Fund is solely used for road maintenance and is
provided with an initial CFAF 3 billion in fiscal 1981 to increase
pari passu with inflation and netwqork expansion (para. 39);
(c) ensure that the debt service for previously financed roads is added
to the national debt (para. 39);
(d) ensure that in the future, road investments are financed under
Senegal's investment budget (para. 39);



- 40 -                      ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) consult the Bank before undertaking any new road investment program
(para. 39);
(f) ensure that the national soils laboratory (CEREEQ) is enabled to
operate with sufficient financial autonomy (para. 42);
(g) prepare an action program by December 31, 1980 and thereafter take
effective steps to enforce axle-load limits and restrict the impor-
tation of vehicles to those within legal specifications (para.
44);
(h) ensure that the General Directorate of Public Works recruits and
trains new and existing staff as needed and provides daily allow-
ances additional to regular salaries to trainees (para. 48);
(i) ensure that Senegalese counterparts are assigned to the consultants
responsible for executing the training program (para. 48); and
(j) ensure that progress under the training program is reviewed every
twelve months in consultation with the Bank (para. 48).



SENEGAL   1   t ToN>   M  A  U  R  I T  A  Nwt IA                                           r              l ss Algoria ML byo
Ur    SENEGAL                                                                                                                                                                                             AIIH
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MAIN ROAD NETWORK                                  J                                                                                                                                   MuritoH s
PAVED ROADS TO BE IMPROVED UNDEl PROJE                                                                                                                                   SE  GAL "_  .- -N   3
-   ROADS STRENGTHENED UNDER CREDIT 3RR AN                                                                                                                                                    Oso**- ¶  o  
LOAN 1222                                                                                                                                                                                                1 0
P I/ EDP  OADS                                                                                                                                                                  GIA.1,E     Y      tT
PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                         (C. L  otR~b
GRAVEL ROADS                                                                                                                                                                      L      I ,A      _
EARTH ROADS                                                                                                                                                         A /  1   t i G
I-I-I-I RAILROADS                          ,                                                                                                                                    Oce  n                                       j/
-- -~~~~ RIVEHS             / ~~~~ Tel       'g                                                                                        MM^.   UOSC9IS     
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES          0                                                                                                  Our- g./r
M'boyork  Ka"                       E-Groge          Ddnoy    lor  Bo/g
OAKAR    E~~~OOR  Nob  0N'd ~      ~         =                O D.ogoo                                     tOn                                                           \rT
DA~~ \BunO \ciN'd,uson  4fobeBoc - )
A  T L A  NT/C                            Ft ,,    k                                Mole  Hodor.O D     -' iKoI/ M     L
OCEAN NI V
0 Lv 201103 40 50 HE 70 RE HE0 I° PSOuo SLe   0
Cop ks it°>SPX ~G U I NT E A -BT If S AU                                                                                         GU    N                 E  _X       *   ( 
!                          7                     4                                             /                     ,,9vv                     \             G  U  '^ N  E 8  .                            ¢' _Y P.khNA' 
,-- - -01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



