THE WORLD BANK
REPORT No. T-6805 BIl
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION
PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
November 13, 1997



..
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 31, 1997)
Cuffency unit:Konvertible Marka (KM)
KM1.00=DM1.00=US$0.57
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric and International Systems)
bar    :      1 atmosphere = 14 pounds per square inch
kW            Kilowatt
GWH           Gigawatt Hour
MCM           Million Cubic Meters
MW            Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYNMS
BH            Bosnia and Herlegovina
DC            Direct Contracting
DH            District Heating
DUE           District Heating Enterprise
EBRD          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EPBiH         Elektroprivreda Bosne i Hercegovine
FRY           Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GBH           Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GPN           General Procurement Notice
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IS            International Shopping
JUGEL         Union of the (former) Yugoslav Electric Power Industry
LIB           Limited International Bidding
NBF           Not Bank Financed
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NS            National Shopping
ODA           Overseas Development Agency (UK)
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PSA           Project Start-up Advance
QBS           Quality-Based Selecdon
QCBS          Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
RS            Republika Srpska
SOE           Statements of Expenditures
TFBH          Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina
USAID         US Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:          Johannes Linn
Country Director:        Christiaan Poortman
Sector Leader:           Henk Busz
Staff Member:            Richard Hamilton



iii
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. BACKGROUND ......................................... 1
A. Bank Involvement in Energy ....................................1
B. Electric Power ....1................................
C. Coal ....................................2
D. District Heating ....2...............................2
E. Natural Gas ....................................3
HI. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY ....................................4
A. Bank/IDA  Assistance Strategy ....................................5
DI  THE  GAS SYSTEM  ..................................................................7
A. System  Characteristics ....................................7
B. System Problems ....................................8
IV. THE PROJECT ....................................9
A. Project Objectives ....................................9
B. Project Description ................................... 10
C. Project Cost ...................................                                                           13
D. Financing Plan ................................... 15
E. Environmental Aspects ...................................                                                  15
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...................................                                                    16
A. The Borrower and Beneficiary ................................... 16
B. Project Implementation ................................... 16
C. Procurement ...................................                                                            17
D. Disbursements ...................................                                                          19
E. Accounts, Auditing and Reporting ...................................                                      20
F. Supervision Plan ...................................                                                      21
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ASPECTS ...................................                                           21
A. Past and Current Financial Situation ...................................                                  21
B. Future Financial Performance ...................................                                          22
C. Economic Justification ...................................  23
D. Risks ................................... 26
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED ...................................                                                      27



I



iv
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Project Financing Plan
Annex 2: Project Implementation Schedule and Monitoring Indicators
Annex 3: Detailed Procurement Plan
Annex 4: Sarajevogas Financial Statements
Annex 5: Comparison of Heating Options
Annex 6: Economic Rate of Return Calculation
MAPS
IBRD 27825 (Transmission Plan and Schematic)
IBRD 27826 (Sarajevo Distribution System Plan)
IBRD 27827 (Zvornik to Sarajevo Transmission Facilities)



I



I. BACKGROUND
A.   BANK INVOLVEMENT IN ENERGY
1.    The Bank has been heavily involved in the energy sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the
past, notably in electric power, petroleum and natural gas. In the gas sector, the Bank financed the
Naftagas Pipeline Project (Loan 916-YU; US$59.4 million; 1973) and the Sarajevo Air Pollution
Control Project (Loan 1264-YU; US$38 million; 1975). Power sector projects, which benefited
BH partly or exclusively, included: the Third Power Project (Loan 386-YU; US$75 million; 1972)
and the Fourth Power Project (Loan 1469-YU; US$80 million; 1977), both of which helped
finance the development of SFRY's interconnected power system; the Fifth Power Project (Loan
1561-YU; US$73 million; 1978), which was for the development of the hydro power plants on
the middle Neretva River; the Sixth Power Project (Loan 1561-1-YU; US$61 million; 1983),
which was for construction of the Mostar dam; the Seventh Power Project (Loan 2338-YU;
US$120 million; 1984), which financed SFRY's energy management system; and the Eighth
Power Project, which was for the Visegrad hydropower plant (Loan 2527-YU; US$125 million;
1985). In the petroleum sector, the Bank financed the First Petroleum Project (Loan 2597-YU;
US$92.5 million; 1985) for the development of indigenous energy resources. Since the Bank
resumed lending to Bosnia in 1996, a US$20 million Trust Fund credit was approved on May 14,
1996 for an Emergency District Heating Reconstruction Project (TF 024034) and a US$35
million IDA credit for an Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project with a coal mining
component was approved on July 31, 1996 (Credit 2903-BOS).
B.   ELECTRIC POWER
2.    Background. In 1990, BH produced 13,090 Gigawatt hours (GWh) of electricity from
generating plants located on its territory. Electricity consumption was 11,181 GWh. The system
comprised 13 hydropower plants with a total capacity of 2,034 Megawatts (MW) and an average
output of 6,922 GWh/year (2,415 GWh in 1990), and 12 thermal power plants with a total
capacity of 1,957 Megawatts (MW) and an output of 10,675 GWh in 1990. The thermal power
plants were brown coal and lignite fired, with the fuel coming from mines within BH. BH was
responsible for operating its own system and meeting local demand. However, being part of the
former Yugoslav network, the 400 kV power grid in BH was controlled by JUGEL's dispatching
center in Belgrade. Power exchanges with neighboring countries were also controlled by JUGEL.
3.    As of January 1, 1996, 58%  of total generating capacity in the Federation area
(comparable data are not available for Republika Srpska) was reported to have been damaged.
Part of the remaining capacity is out of operation due to destroyed transmission lines or lack of
coal. About 60% of the transmission network and control system was seriously damaged,
including transmission facilities and interconnection lines to neighboring countries.  The
distribution  network  was largely  destroyed.   Many transformer stations, buildings,
telecommunications and maintenance equipment were also either seriously damaged or destroyed.



2
4.    Sector Strategy.    The proposed sector strategy would be to: (i) restore service to
acceptable levels; (ii) reconfigure the electric power network to optimize the system, taking into
account BH's need for significant independence from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's (FRY)
network and its security of supply; (iii) restructure the sector and introduce a regulatory
framework that would facilitate attracting potential investors; and (iv) improve sector finances by
improving billing and collections and revising the tariff structure and levels to reflect supply costs
for each category of consumers. An Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project was
approved by the Board of Directors on July 31, 1996.
C.    COAL
5.    Background. In the 1980's, the coal mines in BH produced annually about 18 million
tons, of which 10 million tons of brown coal and 8 million tons of lignite. Their brown coal
output accounted for about 80% of total former SFRY production, lignite for only 15%.
Production was concentrated in areas near Tuzla and Zenica in both open pit as well as
underground mines. In addition, two rnines in the Republika Srpska were important: Ugljevik:
(brown coal) and Gacko (lignite). About half of the production originated from surface mines and
the other half from underground mines. BH's proven reserves of coal are about 1.6 billion tons.
More than 80% of BH's total production was used for electric power generation and the
remaining 20% for industrial and household uses.
6.    Coal production dropped to 1.5 million tons in 1994, i.e., less than 10% of the pre-war
level. Much of the mobile mining equipment has been cannibalized beyond repair. Some newer
mobile equipment had to be turned over to the army or just disappeared. There is an acute lack of
critical materials such as fuel, tires and spare parts. Yet, despite the drastic drop in production, no
efforts were made to concentrate production in a few large and economic mines. The number of
people employed decreased from 26,000 to about 7,000. Since production declined much faster,
productivity is now among the lowest in the world. Present production costs appear to be at or
above the world market level of coal prices adjusted for quality and are higher than sales prices,
which are set by the State. To ensure future financial viability, coal mining enterprises need to
close uneconomic capacity.
7.    Sector Strategy. In view of the coal sector's uncertain future in a market economy, all
major long-term investment decisions should be avoided at this stage. The sector strategy is to:
(i) determine priority actions to be taken for the lowest cost and most competitive mines
necessary to provide fuel to cogenerating plants and other priority users; (ii) restore output of the
lowest-cost mines to minimum acceptable levels; and (iii) restructure the coal industry, including
closing uneconomic mining capacity and privatizing services wherever feasible.
D.   DISTRcT HEATING
8.    Background. In 1991, BH had district heating (DH) systems in most major towns and
cities with a population in excess of about 25,000 inhabitants. The systems were generally run by



3
municipally-owned district heating enterprises (DHEs). Cogenerated heat was provided only by
the combined heat and power plants in Tuzla and Kakanj as well as by local industries; the
remaining heat was generated by local heat-only boilers. Prior to the war, some efforts had been
made to start converting coal-fired boilers to gas or oil firing, notably in Sarajevo. DH systems
throughout BH served 120,000 flats, equivalent to 450,000 inhabitants or 10% of the total
population.  The Sarajevo DH system was the country's largest, serving about 180,000
inhabitants or 45% of the pre-war population of Sarajevo.
9.    Currently, the DH systems in major cities such as Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Bihac and Mostar
are only partly operational. In Sarajevo, the system has been damaged due to shelling and
freezing of the pipes in the network; building internals in residential dwellings (pipes, radiators
and valves) have incurred substantial damage, also due to the corrosion associated with non-usage
of the system. In cities such as Banja Luka, most of the damage is related to non-usage of the
system due to lack of fuel, and associated rusting and freezing. In all cities, lack of maintenance
due to the absence of spare parts has been significant and further aggravated the problems.
10.   Sector Strategy. The sector strategy is to: (i) restore urban district heating services to
adequate levels as soon as possible, disconnect serviced flats from the gas system (in Sarajevo)
and reduce fuel wood consumption (in other cities); (ii) rehabilitate building internal heating
installations; (iii) strengthen sector institutions and increase cost recovery; and (iv) undertake
master plan studies to prepare plans for the optimal configuration of each city's future heating
system. An Emergency District Heating Reconstruction Project was approved by the Board of
Directors on May 14, 1996 (TF 024034); implementation is fully satisfactory.
E.    NATURAL GAS
11.   Background. The gas system in BH was developed starting in 1975 under the Bank's
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project (Loan 1264-YU; US$38 million). Russian gas is supplied
via Hungary and Serbia and enters BH at Zvornik, in Republika Srpska. As of 1992 the gas
supply network consisted of 182 km of transmission mains and offiake pipes, running from
Zvornik to the Sarajevo area via Semizovac and from the latter to Zenica. Consumption peaked
in 1990 with 610 million cubic meters, constituting 8% of the total energy consumption in BH.
Within Sarajevo, there were 15,000 household connections and all major boilers of the city's
district heating network had been converted from coal to gas-firing. Gas imports for BH are
metered at the Ukraine/Hungarian border (Beregov, the contractual point of delivery of the gas)
and from there it is transported through the Hungarian and FRY transmission systems to Zvornik.
The gas was imported under a contract between Energopetrol, a state-owned oil and gas
company, and Gazexport, the export branch of Russia's Gazprom. Within BH, gas transmission
and distribution was the responsibility of Sarajevogas (para. 27).
12.   At the beginning of the war, use of gas upstream reduced the supply coming into Sarajevo
to such an extent that gas use for industry and much of the district heating system became
impossible. Because of the destruction of part of the district heating system in Sarajevo early on
and a sharp reduction in electricity supply, gas suddenly assumed major importance for the
inhabitants of Sarajevo as a means to stay warm and to cook. Many improvised connections and



4
appliances were made which, combined with an absence of odorization, often led to explosions
and highly inefficient gas use. However, odorization equipment was reintroduced in December
1995 through humanitarian aid. As of the end of 1995, the total number of household
connections in all of Sarajevo was estimated at around 89,000; gas consumption constituted about
70% of all energy consumption and it was the basic heating and cooking fuel for the city's
remaining 300,000 inhabitants.
13.   Debt to Gazexport. During the war, the gas supply from Semizovac to Zenica (the entire
western branch of the transmission system, affecting several major industries along that line) was
shut off. However, some gas was allowed to come into Sarajevo. In exchange, gas was allowed
to go to FRY. The total bill for gas supplied to BH by Gazexport during the war was about
US$105 million as of October 10, 1995. Settlement of the debt outstanding as of October 10,
1995 is expected to take place as part of the commercial debt negotiations. A new interim
contract for the period October 10, 1995-December 31, 1996 signed between Gazexport and
Energoinvest called for delivery of gas to both the Federation and the Republika Srpska
combined.
14.   Agreement was reached in January 1997 on a new three-year gas supply contract.
However, Gazexport was insisting on prior payment of an unpaid balance of US$16.2 million
under the October 1995 contract before the new contract could become effective. In fact, due to
continuing payment problems the gas supply to BH was gradually reduced and finally cut off on
April 1, 1997. Since the major issue was a dispute between the Federation and RS about their
respective shares of the arrears, the Bank mounted a major effort to resolve these differences. As
a result, the Federation and RS agreed to an arrears settlement scheme' as well as to the need to
renegotiate the existing gas supply and transit agreements in order to have a separate agreement
for each Entity. This would ensure that, in the event one of the two parties defaults on its
payments to Gazexport or the transit companies (MOL of Hungary and Nis-Gas of Yugoslavia),
the supply of gas to the other party could be maintained. The Federation settled all its arrears to
Gazexport and the flow of gas to the Federation resumed on October 31, 1997. The resupply of
gas to RS will take place once it has come to a satisfactory agreement with Gazexport on arrears
repayment and payment for future consumption (the humanitarian need for gas in RS is far less
critical than in Sarajevo: over 90% of the gas is consumed by an alumina factory and most
inhabitants using gas have alternative means of heating).
II. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
15.   The conclusion of the Dayton-Paris Peace Agreement in December 1995 ended Europe's
most destructive war of the last fifty years. It was the first step towards reconciliation and
reconstruction for Bosnia and Herzegovina, a task whose outcome could make or break the peace
process. Large numbers of refugees and displaced persons, severely damaged infrastructure
IThe Federation agreed to pay US$7.3 million, of which the Dutch Trust Fund paid US$4.7 million, while RS
agreed to pay US8.9 million. Efforts are underway to obtain donor financing to help RS settle its arrears with
Gazexport.



-     ~~5
facilities, and lack of a unified economic management structure make for an unparalleled challenge
for post-war reconstruction.
16.   Loss in human resources and damages. At least 200-250,000 people are dead or
missing, and over 1 million people left the country. In addition, there are about 1.5 million
displaced people in the country, many of whom live in temporary shelters. Enormous damage has
been inflicted on the country's physical infrastructure, including energy. Direct war damages are
huge, probably in the range of US$15-20 billion. Indirect damage due to lack of maintenance and
corrosion accounts for many more billions of dollars of losses.
17.   Institutional Framework. Under the Dayton-Paris Agreement, Bosnia and Herzegovina
is an internationally recognized country consisting of two entities: the Bosniac-Croat Federation
(Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina) and the Republika Srpska. There is a State Government
responsible for foreign affairs, customs and foreign trade policies, monetary management, and
inter-entity matters on communication, transport. All other responsibilities including defense,
energy, social services and social welfare, have been devolved to the Federation and the
Republika Srpska separately.
18.   Macroeconomic Setting.  Since the signing of the Peace Agreement, Bosnia and
Herzegovina has experienced the beginnings of political, economic and social recovery. While
living standards are still very low for many Bosnian families and economic activity is only at about
one-third of prewar levels, the reconstruction effort has already borne significant fruit. Economic
growth in 1996 reached 50 percent. Unemployment has declined from its postwar high of 90
percent to well below 50 percent. Many schools and health clinics have reopened, repairs to
infrastructure are well underway. Commerce and production are picking up with the help of
donor-financed lines of credit. The effects of reconstruction and growth are particularly evident
in the Bosniac/Croat Federation where much of the international aid has been directed. Recovery
in Republika Srpska began only after international sanctions were lifted in March 1996, and has
been proceeding at a slower pace than in the Federation.
A.   BANK/IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
19.   On April 1, 1996, Bosnia and Herzegovina fulfilled the conditions of succession to the
former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's membership in the Bank, IDA and IFC.
Membership is retroactive to February 25, 1993. The resolution of Bosnia's arrears with the
World Bank, through consolidation of its IBRD debt, allowed regular Bank lending to begin in
June 1996. With a war-devastated economy, low post-war per capita GDP and lack of
creditworthiness, Bosnia was declared IDA eligible.
20.   Since early 1995, the Bank Group has been deeply involved in developing, with the BH
authorities, a blueprint for reconstruction of the country's economy. A three- to four-year
Priority Reconstruction Program totaling some $5.1 billion was presented to, and endorsed by a
donors' conference co-sponsored by the Bank and the EU, following signing of the Dayton-Paris
Peace Accords in December 1995. This conference, and a second one in April 1996, led to 1996
commitments of about US$1.8 billion from some sixty bilateral and multilateral donors for



6
immediate and priority reconstruction activities. A third donors' conference held in July 1997
secured additional donor commitments of US$1.2 billion for 1997.
21.   During 1996, the Bank followed an assistance strategy aimed at jump-starting economic
activity through support of a broad range of economic sectors. Leveraging Bank resources with
significant funding from donors was an important element of this strategy. Before arrears
resolution, the Bank supported a series of immediate assistance programs through a special $150
million Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina (TFBH). Seven emergency operations were
approved under the TFBH, including rebuilding of government institutions and funding of a line
of credit to small business, as well as support for rehabilitation in the agriculture, water and
sanitation, transport, health, education and district heating sectors.
22.   Since the start of regular Bank lending in mid-1996, US$257.6 million in IDA resources
have been committed, supporting an additional 13 operations focused on clearing of landmines,
reconstruction of electric power, transport infrastructure, housing, hospitals and schools,
establishment of a guarantee facility for industry, and three programs to support recovery of
employment through public works, re-training and loans to microbusinesses. IDA's assistance
program also supported the initial phase of the government's macroeconomic and institutional
reforms: a Transition Assistance Credit, approved by the Board in September 1996, was the first
operation focusing on institution-building in the Federation and a series of structural reforms
needed for advancing the transition to a market-economy; and under the Second Transport
Project, approved by the Board in August 1997, an adjustment component supports similar key
structural reforms in the RS. The IFC has pending commitments of about US$10.7 million to
various small and medium sized enterprise projects.
23.   While emphasis during the first post-war year was on moving quickly with emergency
reconstruction across a range of sectors, IDA's assistance strategy for fiscal years 1998 and 1999
shifts the focus to sustainability and ensuring the medium- to long- term viability of policies and
investments. Significant donor resources are needed for the next several years; however, BH
must increasingly become more self-reliant in preparation for the time when these inflows are no
longer available. This will mean viable government institutions, sustainable government budgets,
improved cost-recovery policies and mechanisms and structural reforms that stimulate private
investment.  Three overarching objectives will guide Bank Group strategy: (i) further
development of the basic institutional infrastructure for economic management; (ii) transition to a
market economy through deepening of major structural reforms; and (iii) continued, selective
support of physical reconstruction.
24.   Further policy-enhancing investment or adjustment operations are envisaged to support
institution-building at the State and Entity level, as well as key reforms in the areas of public
finance, banking, privatization and trade liberalization. In the area of reconstruction, future Bank
operations will support key areas such as the network infrastructure sectors of energy and
transport, as well as education, agriculture and other sectors essential to economic recovery.
Limited IDA resources will continue to make partnerships with other donors essential:
Mobilizing co-funding for future operations, and coordinating strategies -- e.g., eventual exit from
those sectors where other donors are more fully engaged or have greater comparative advantage -
- will be important elements of this partnership.



7
25.   Project Specific. The Bank delayed processing of the proposed Project because the
supply of gas to Sarajevo remained tenuous and was, in fact, cut off by Gazexport starting on
April 1, 1997. The Bank took the position that, as long as there was no sound long-term gas
supply contract with credible payment mechanisms, it could not make major investments in the
urgently needed reconfiguration and reconstruction of the Sarajevo gas distribution system and
associated transmission facilities. Nevertheless, the Bank allowed Sarajevogas to withdraw about
US$5 million against the Project's US$6 million Project Start-up Advance (para. 65) for urgent
requirements, notably for purchasing regulators and meters necessary for the district heating
system's boilers as well as for rehabilitating, procuring and installing household meters and
regulator sets.
26.   When it became clear that the gas supply to Bosnia would not be restored unless the
Federation and RS would be separately responsible for their respective consumption, the Bank
took an active role in convincing all parties, both within and without BH, that there should be
separate contracts throughout the gas supply chain for the Federation and RS (para. 14). The
Bank was also instrumental in brokering agreement on the operation and maintenance of the
pipeline section within RS, with transit fees to be paid by Energoinvest to Energopetrol Pale.
Commercial meters were installed on the main pipeline in Zvornik in February 1997 and
Energoinvest will have free and unhindered access to these meters. Under the project, existing
control meters in Kladanj will be replaced by commercial meters with greater accuracy, so that
future disputes about respective shares of gas consumption should no longer arise. Separate
valves on the pipeline at Zvomik would ensure that the supply to either party could be cut off at
the request of the gas supplier or the transit companies in case of payment default.
III. THE GAS SYSTEM
A.   SYSTEM CHARACTERISTICS
27.   The gas system in Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of transmission and distribution
systems. The transmission pipeline system imports gas from Russia. From Zvomik at the border
between the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) and BH the main line extends in a
southwesterly direction to Sarajevo, entering the Federation at Kladanj. This line was constructed
in 1979 and is 117 km long. An additional line going in a northwesterly direction goes from
Sarajevo to Zenica. That line is approximately 65 km long and was constructed in 1982. Both
transmission lines supply consumers at various take-off points along their length. Prior to the war,
most of the gas was consumed by commercial and industrial customers in Sarajevo and industrial
consumers in Zenica and Kakanj. Both the transmission pipeline from Zvornik to Sarajevo and the
initial distribution system in Sarajevo were builtunder a World Bank loan (Loan 1264-YU; 1975).
The transmission line to Zenica was financed by the Zenica Steel Works.
28.   The main gas transmission pipeline was designed for a maximum volume of 1,260 million
cubic meters (MCM) per year. Consumption peaked in 1990, at 610 MCM per year. In 1992, the
flow to Zenica was shut off and the gas flow into Sarajevo was adequate to serve only small
commercial and residential consumers. The consumed gas volume in 1992 was only 125 MCM.



8
29.   The distribution system in Sarajevo was built from 1979 to 1982. Before the war, the
system supplied industry, district heating plants and about 15,000 individual households. Natural
gas is distributed in the city of Sarajevo and its suburbs at three working pressure levels: 8 bar, 3
bar and 0.1 bar. The 8 bar steel network for the high pressure loop line has a length of 80 km,
with a maximum working pressure of up to 14.5 bar. The regular network for the medium 3 bar
pressure loop line has a length of about 15 km and is made of a combination of polyethylene
(80%) and steel (20%) pipe. The maximum working pressure of this medium pressure network is
4 bar. The low pressure distribution network has a length of approximately 600 km and is made
entirely of polyethylene pipes. The material which has been used for the networks corresponds to
Western European standards.
B.    SYSTEM PROBLEMS
30.   Transmission System. The high pressure transmission lines and facilities transporting the
gas from the international border to the communities and industrial installations were not
maintained during the war. Hence, the safety and reliability of the transmission system has
deteriorated severely. A transmission line failure would stop the gas flow in the entire system.
The materials and equipment to repair a failure, should it occur, are not available. Severe
problems presently endangering the transmission system are: (i) possible bursting of the pipeline
due to damage from shelling, sniper fire and excessive loading from armoured military vehicles;
(ii) land movements, erosion and underminings at river and stream crossings; and (iii) external and
internal corrosion.
31.   Very little pipeline maintenance could be done during the war. Most of the maintenance
records of the pipeline were destroyed or lost, so that very little baseline data exists. Virtually all
equipment was lost. Spare parts must be made available for regular maintenance and repair. A
procurement, warehousing and spare parts policy needs to be developed based on the equipment
in the system. Pipe for line cut-outs and pipeline maintenance material needs to be procured and
warehoused in a suitable environment. However, stores and shelters that used to protect
mechanical equipment against weather impact suffered various degrees of damage during the war.
These structures, tools, spare parts, workshops or warehouse equipment required for mechanical
works need to be repaired.
32.   Distribution System. During the war, natural gas was the main source of energy in
Sarajevo, since oil, liquefied petroleum gas, electricity, coal and wood supplies quickly became
scarce or exhausted. Electricity was often cut off and the district heating systems that used to
supply densely populated parts of the city could operate only partly. To meet basic heating and
cooking requirements, the Sarajevo gas distribution system was expanded to a large number of
residences. Some of these connections were installed with the help of international humanitarian
aid organizations according to industry standards.  However, the vast majority of these
connections were made by unskilled labor with salvaged materials. Pressure regulating and
metering devices were not installed. Existing regulating and metering devices were often bypassed
or removed because of the low pressures in the distribution lines. Building internal installations for
district heating were cannibalized and converted into gas pipes. Hand-made burners and heaters
were installed without safety shut-off devices. These improvised connections and appliances,



9
combined with an absence of gas odor, led to frequent explosions which resulted in fatalities,
injuries, and fires. However, gas odorization equipment was reinstalled in December 1995 and
the number of explosions declined sharply since.
33.   Current Situation. As of the end of 1995, gas consumption constituted about 70% of all
energy consumption and it was the basic heating and cooking fuel for the city's remaining
300,000 inhabitants. Since the beginning of the war, the network expanded from 15,000 to about
89,000 household connections. Approximately 22,000 of these installations have been normalized
to date, including exterior piping, meters and regulators. About 34,000 former district heating
customers were returned to the district heating system as a result of successful implementation of
the first phase of the Bank's Emergency District Heating Reconstruction Project. The total
number of gas consumers was about 53,000 as of November, 1997.
34.   The self-made heating and cooking devices used by many consumers are quickly
deteriorating due to the inadequate materials and fabrication techniques used. Climatic exposure
and working stress make the materials brittle and prone to leaking, causing gas-related incidents
while the waste of gas through leaks continues. The handmade appliances are estimated to be up
to 50% less efficient than commercial appliances. Effective demand side management measures
require that this improvised equipmentbe replaced as soon as possible.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
35.   The first objective of the project is to restore a safe and reliable gas supply to BH, in
particular to Sarajevo, as soon as possible, by repairing or reconstructing the gas transmission and
distribution systems. This includes rehabilitation of the transmission line, distribution network and
connections of large gas users, including Toplane, and reconnection of 34,000 flats to a
functioning district heating system (they have already been transferred). The remaining 3,000
connections would be taken off the system2. The second objective is to enhance system and
energy efficiency and reduce environmental pollution by converting self-made gas connections to
industry standards. This will include installing new meters and regulators on 42,000 connections,
repairing meters and regulators on the other connections and replacing home made heating and
cooking devices of low-income families with 10,000 simple wall heaters and two plate cookers.
Other objectives are to enhance cost recovery, strengthen the institutional capacity of
Sarajevogas, and identify alternative sources of gas supply. The project would include the repair
of transmission facilities within Republika Srpska.
These consumers cannot be served economically by the natural gas system and would have to use alternative fuels
for heating and cooking, such as LPG or electricity.



10
B.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
36.   Gas System Reconstruction To Date. Reconstruction prior to January 1996 consisted
of efforts by humanitarian aid organizations, with labor being supplied by Sarajevogas and the
citizens of the City. Relief projects were funded by several Middle Eastern countries, the UK, the
Netherlands and the US. Implementation was coordinated primarily through a British engineering
and construction company (AMEC) and Sarajevogas. These projects consisted of the
rehabilitation of about 10,000 self made connections and the installation of approximately 200 km
of network piping. In addition, substantial reconstruction of the city gate station of Hum was
carried out as well as some work on the cathodic protection system for the steel lines in the city
distribution network. Some heating and cooking devices were also supplied. Metering was not
provided by the humanitarian aid organizations.
37.   From January 1996-September 1997, significant additional reconstruction took place. The
reconstruction activities and their costs are listed under cofinancing in Annex 1. In general, this
aid consisted of the supply of materials -- European and Middle Eastern donors, plus US$5
million in IDA funds from the PSA. In addition, the various municipalities in the Sarajevo area
financed some of the reconstruction, mostly through the supply of materials. Over 200 km of
trenches for new network piping were dug by volunteer citizen labor. Some of the tools were
supplied by Sarajevogas. The total dollar value of the investments cofinanced this way, including
the value of citizen self-help, is estimated at US$11.9 million. Contributions by the EU, The
Netherlands, the UK and others brings the total amount of cofinancing to US$22.1 million.
38.   Project Description. The proposed project consists of the following major components:
(i) engineering analysis of entire gas transmission and distribution systems; (ii) physical
reconstruction of the gas system (except the Semizovac-Zenica branch of the transmission
pipeline, which belongs to the Zenica Steel Works (para 42); (iii) technical assistance to
Sarajevogas to implement the project and enhance its institutional capacity in management,
technical and commercial aspects and finance; and (iv) a district heating component covering
goods and works to refund the Project Start-up Advance (para. 65). Details of the project are
described below.
1.    Engineering Component
39.   Project Engineering.  An engineering contract would be given to an international
consulting engineering firm to assist in the analysis, design and contracting for the reconstruction
of both the transmission and the distribution system. Among the tasks would be to determine the
extent of pipeline corrosion. Most of the engineering work would probably be done by Bosnian
firns.  This would produce economies in project implementation.  Technical assistance to
Sarajevogas would be provided to support the entity in project implementation and strengthen the
operational capability of the entity.
a)    Transmission System
40.   An engineering analysis would be performed to identify the risks associated with the
current status of the transmission pipeline and to evaluate existing problems. This analysis would



11
include the use of visual inspection and high technology sensing devices to identify and evaluate
pipeline defects. A coating analysis, along with a survey of coating integrity, would be performed
to determine areas where the coating needs to be repaired. A hydrostatic test would be
conducted, if required, to ensure the strength of the pipeline and to reestablish the maximum
allowable working pressure. This analysis would prioritize the required pipeline work.
Mechanical maintenance requirements would be analyzed and prioritized. Terms of reference for
construction, mechanical maintenance and cathodic protection remediation contracts would be
prepared. Specifications and schedules for the procurement of materials and equipment would be
issued. Maintenance and operating procedures and manuals, along with base line records, would
be prepared. Inspection of construction would be done to ensure conformance to standard
procedures. Both the transmission lines from Zvornik to Sarajevo and from Sarajevo to Zenica
would be analyzed.
b)    Sarajevo Distribution Network
41.   An engineering analysis would be performed to determine the most efficient methodology
to remediate the problems of the unsafe network connections and installations, install regulating
and metering devices, and rehabilitate the cathodic protection system. Among the tasks would be
to determine the extent of pipeline corrosion, and the most cost effective materials (synthetic,
carbon steel or other materials) to improve life expectancy of the pipelines. In addition, an
economic evaluation of supplying gas to certain areas and a system reliability analysis would be
performed. The economic evaluation would determine for which consumers it is less costly to
supply gas and for which consumers it is less costly to supply energy from alternative sources.
Baseline information would be assembled and schematics produced. Operational manuals and
guidelines would be assembled. Technical terms of reference for all reconstruction contracts,
specifications and schedules for materials procurement would be produced. Inspection of
construction would be carried out to ensure conformance to standards and the design.
2.    Reconstruction Component
a)    Transmission System
42.   Pipeline Reconstruction. Pipeline reconstruction would be carried out based on the
terms of reference established in the engineering analysis and design. Because of financial
constraints, only the main line from Zvornik to Sarajevo can be rehabilitated under the proposed
project (para. 38). The work would include cutting out sections of badly damaged pipeline,
repairing coating, remediating river and road crossings, stabilizing land slippages, repairing access
roads, removing brush from the right of way, putting up fencing and establishing signs where
necessary. The engineering fim would also conduct a hydrostatic test of the structural integrity of
the pipeline, if required. The firm would comply with recognized quality control and assurance
procedures. The actual value of this contract would be heavily dependent on the number of
pipeline cutouts required and the actual condition of the pipeline and right of way, as revealed by
the engineering analysis.



12
43.   Valve Maintenance. The project would include rehabilitation, repair and replacement, if
necessary, of the mainline block valves, take-off valves, scrapper trap installations and other
above-ground mechanical facilities, as determined by the engineering analysis.
44.   Measurement, Regulating and Metering Stations. In accordance with the requirements
set out in the engineering analysis the Butila and Hum metering and regulating stations (city gate
stations) would be rehabilitated. The Hum station has had most of the required work completed
with the help of humanitarian aid organizations. Work on this station would include minor
structures, some instrumentation and clean up. The Butila station needs to be inspected and
significant work on the metering and regulating equipment may be required. This station contains
mechanical shops and warehouse facilities that would have to be remediated. The impact of
sniper fire on the high pressure pipes would have to be investigated to determine whether the pipe
strength has been affected. A new metering facility at Kladanj would be constructed to accurately
measure gas consumption in RS. Included with this facility would be a gas chromatograph to
monitor gas quality.
45.   Cathodic Protection.  The replacement and repair of damaged cathodic protection
facilities along the pipeline may include rectifiers, repair to pipe connections, test taps and the
installation of sacrificial anodes. The exact scope would be determined through a study of the
facilities by the engineering consultant. The remediation of the cathodic protection system would
ensure that external corrosion on the pipeline is minimized.
46.   Spare Parts and Safety Equipment. As a result of the engineering analysis, a list of
spare parts required to operate the pipeline in a safe and reliable manner would be drawn up. This
would include spares for the valves, metering and regulating stations, pipeline sections, tape coat
and spares for the cathodic protection system. Safety equipment to deal with possible escapes of
gas would also be provided.
b)    Sarajevo Distribution System
47.   Measurement Reinstallation for Large Consumers.  This sub-component would
include the repair or replacement and the changing of parts in the measurement and regulation
stations of large consumers on the 8 bar, 3 bar and 0.1 bar systems.
48.   Distribution Piping Reconstruction. Includes the construction of 220 km  of
polyethylene piping to properly connect or reconnect 42,000 consumers to the system, repair
danaged network piping, complete loops and provide a safe, efficient and reliable network piping
system. The sub-component would also include installing takeoffs for connections to consumers.
49.   Measurement and Regulation Installation. Meters and regulators need to be installed
with all new connections, while all pre-war connections need to be checked and repaired. It would
include the installation of facilities from the network to the outside of the regulation and metering
boxes and the removal of the 34,000 connections to be replaced by district heating and 3,000
other illegal connections. It would also include the installation of 42,000 new meter and regulator
sets, and the correction of 11,000 existing meters and regulators.



13
50.   Spare Parts and Service Vehicles. This would be for the procurement of spare parts and
service vehicles that would be required to efficiently maintain the system, and would also include
safety equipment.
51.   House Installations and Appliances. Includes the partial remediation and repair of
interior piping and replacement of unsafe and inefficient heating and cooking appliances. Inside
connections would be inspected for safety of installation and materials and brought up to standard
where necessary. A simple two burner cooking device with standard safety devices and one
efficient and safe heating appliance would be supplied per residence, where required on income
grounds.
3.    Services
52.   Strategic Planning and Technical Assistance. A major technical assistance program
would be required, in order to improve institutional capabilities of Sarajevogas for the longer
term. Critical areas in which such technical assistance would be needed are: (i) project
management and engineering; (ii) financial and commercial management; and (iii) system planning.
Financial audits of the project accounts and the financial statements of Sarajevogas would be
included. Each of these tasks would include a significant on-the-job training component for
qualified staff
53.   Technical Assistance for Sector Restructuring and a Tariff Study. In order to
prepare the gas sector for desirable restructuring in the medium term, technical assistance would
be covered under the project for preparation of a gas sector restructuring plan and a tariff study.
The Borrower has agreed to carry out and complete by October 31, 1998 a sector
restructuring study for the gas sector, and a gas tariff study, and take appropriate
measures to implement agreed actions thereafter.
54.   Landmine Clearing. Selected portions of the right of way for the transmission system
and certain areas of the distribution system need to be checked for mines and should be demined,
if required.
C.    PROJECT COST
55.   The estimated total project cost, including physical contingencies of 10% of uncommitted
expenditures, is US$44 million. The foreign exchange cost is US$24 million (or 54% of the total)
and the local cost is US$20 million equivalent. The cost estimates reflect end-1997 prices and are
based on the latest international tendering information available for similar works. They exclude
customs duties and taxes, which are waived for this emergency project. The cost estimates for the
proposed project are summarized in Table 1.



14
Table 1: Project Cost Summary
(US$ million)
PROJECT COMPONENT                  FOREIGN        LOCAL        TOTAL
A. ENGINEERING
1.  INSPECTION, ANALYSIS                         1.60          0.30         1.90
DESIGN, SUPERVISION
SUBTOTAL ENGINEERING                             1.60          0.30         1.90
B. TRANSMISSION
1. PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION                         2.25          2.00         4.25
2. VALVE MAINTENANCE                             0.07          0.06         0.13
3. METERING AND REGULATION                       0.98          0.65         1.63
4. CATHODIC PROTECTION                           0.25          0.25         0.50
5. SPARE PARTS                                   0.60          0.00         0.60
SUBTOTAL TRANSPORTATION                          4.15          2.96        .7.11
C. DISTRIBUTION
1. LARGE CONSUMER REHAB                          0.72          0.18         0.90
2. DISTRIBUTION PIPING                           2.71          8.30        11.01
3. MEASUREMENT AND REGULATION                    8.32          5.98        14.30
4. SPARE PARTS                                   0.59          0.04         0.63
5. HOUSE INSTALLATIONS                           2.00          1.50         3.50
SUBTOTAL DISTRIBUTION                           14.34         16.00        30.34
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE for strategic 0lannina.  1.10          0.00         1.10
sector restructuring and tariff studies
E. BILLING SOFTWARE AND EQUIPMENT                0.60          0.00         0.60
F. LAND MINE CLEARING                            0.00          0.30         0.30
G. ALTERNATIVE GAS SUPPLY STUDY                  0.75          0.00         0.75
H. PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                        0.78          0.67         1.45
2 3.32   1   20.23    I   43.55



15
D.   FINANCING PLAN
56.   The financing plan is shown in Annex 1. Of the total project cost, IDA would finance
US$10 million equivalent. The balance of US$33.5 million is expected to be financed by other
donors, of which US$22. lmillion has already been committed. The most important contribution
has been voluntary labor of Sarajevo residents woth about US$9.1 million towards the
construction of distribution network. The EU is financing the equipment cost for distribution
networks in several areas of Sarajevo. The UK is financing part of the cost of inspection of the
transmission pipeline. Many other donations (the largest being from The Netherlands) have
contributed to various project components. In the unlikely event that the remaining $11.4 million
financing gap cannot be completely closed during the project implementation period, the project
scope would be adjusted correspondingly by reducing investments in transmission, distribution,
engineering or studies and deferring these investments until the financing can be found.
E.    ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
57.   The project is rated Category B, in accordance with the Bank's Operational Manual
Statement 4.01 of October 1992. The chief requirement under a "B" project would be for
Sarajevogas to prepare and implement an environmental monitoring and mitigation plan
satisfactory to the Bank.
58.   Areas that require analysis, monitoring and mitigation are the construction-related
activities. All construction plans will be required to indicate what measures will be taken to
mitigate actions that are potentially harmful to the environment. A possible adverse consequence
is escape of gas. Environmental protection plans and inspections to ensure conformance will be
put in place and monitored by the engineering consultant. These would include a leak reporting
mechanism and a community awareness program to prevent disaster. The Project does not
require population resettlement, since the existing transmission pipeline only needs repairs within
the existing right-of-way and distribution network extension does not require the destruction of
housing or other property.
59.   The project would result in a net reduction in air pollution. The Sarajevo gas system was
installed to reduce the high levels of sulfur dioxide produced by burning the low grade coal
available in the area. Before it was installed, the City of Sarajevo experienced very high levels of
atmospheric pollution from the burning of wood, coal and fuel oil. The average winter
concentration of sulfur dioxide in the air in the city center was ten times greater than what was
considered acceptable by the World Health Organization. Converting self-made gas connections
to industry standard would significantly reduce gas leakage. In addition, the demand-side
management measures that would be put in place under the proposed project would increase the
efficiency of the gas use. Installation of simple, modem appliances would greatly reduce the
amount of gas used in comparison to the self-made appliances that are currently used.



16
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   THE BORROWER AND BENEFICIARY
60.   The Credit would given to Bosnia and Herzegovina and onlent through the Federation
Government to Sarajevogas. The Borrower has agreed to onlend the funds on standard IDA
terms to Sarajevogas with a 35 year maturity.
61.   The principal Beneficiary of the Credit, Sarajevogas, was founded on May 8, 1975 by the
City of Sarajevo. The company has been responsible for the operation of the gas system within
the city, and until recently for the transmission lines from Zvornik to Sarajevo and from Sarajevo
to Zenica (para. 62). Although Sarajevogas was greatly affected by the war, the present staff of
200 has good knowledge of the system, is technically well qualified and is able to implement the
project. Sarajevogas' management is generally satisfactory, but the number of qualified managers
needs to be increased and training in current utility management methods needs to be undertaken.
Computers, telecommunications facilities and other automated management equipment are not yet
available in the required quantities, although significant progress has already been made under the
project to date.
62.   Since it was felt that Sarajevogas represented too much the interests of the Canton of
Sarajevo, as well as to ensure that all major gas users participate indirectly in future gas supply
and gas transmission negotiations, a new company called BH Gas was created on August 15,
1997. BH Gas is a limited liability company with five owners having paid initial capital
contributions of DEM 10,000 each: Sarajevogas, Energoinvest, Zenica Steel Works, the cement
factory in Kakanj and the brick factory in Visoko. The principal functions of BH Gas are to: (i)
negotiate future gas supply and transport contracts with foreign or non-Federation companies
(Gazexport, MOL, Nis-Gas, Sarajevogas - Lukawica); (ii) manage and operate (but not own) all
fixed assets related to gas transport, such as the pipeline, measurement, regulating and metering
stations; (iii) allocate gas to all major consumers; and (iv) plan and develop the future gas
transmission system in the Federation. The principal source of income of BH gas would be a fee
for the transport of gas over the pipeline sections Kladanj - Sarajevo - Zenica.
B.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
63.   In order to execute the reconstruction process efficiently and complete it on time, a
project implementation unit (PIU) has been established by Sarajevogas. The PIU is headed by a
senior Sarajevogas manager and consists of suitably qualified Sarajevogas staff, to be assisted by
experienced professionals from local and foreign engineering companies as required. The PIU
would perform system analysis, detailed project design, work scheduling, procurement,
contracting, coordination and supervision of the reconstruction process, monitoring, approval of
reconstructed components and all financial and administrative operations associated with the
implementation of the project. Procurement and financial operations associated with project



17
implementation would be supported by a procurement expert with extensive experience in Bank-
financed projects. On-the-job training of Sarajevogas staff in modem utility management
techniques and methodologies would prepare the entity for the future task of efficiently operating
the reconstructed gas system. Sarajevogas agreed to maintain a Project Implementation Unit
with management and staffing acceptable to IDA.
64.   A Reconstruction Office has been set up by the City of Sarajevo to coordinate the
reconstruction efforts in various sectors. The PIU would liaise with this office on a frequent basis
to coordinate the reconstruction of the gas, heating, water, transport and electric utility systems.
The Borrower would ensure that any licenses, permits and approvals required for rapid
reconstruction will be granted promptly.
65.   A US$6.0 million Project Start-up Advance (PSA) for this project as well as a PSA for the
proposed Emergency District Heating Reconstruction Project (US$5.3 million) and for the
proposed Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project (US$3.8 million) were approved by
the Board of Executive Directors on March 27, 1996. The PSA was to be used for project
preparation and start-up activities. PSAs for this and the other two projects were necessary
because no other funds were available to launch reconstruction operations. The PSAs are
advanced against the Emergency District Heating Reconstruction Project's US$20 million Credit
from the TFBH. To ensure that the full US$20 million will be available for district heating, the
Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project and the proposed Emergency Natural Gas
System Reconstruction Project contain and would contain, respectively, components for the
Emergency District Heating Reconstruction Project. After Board approval and effectiveness,
these components will be financed from the respective Credits for these projects.
66.   Implementation Schedule. The three main project implementation phases, to be
scheduled as tightly as possible, are: (i) project preparation; (ii) engineering analysis, design and
contracting; and (iii) reconstruction. A detailed Project Implementation Schedule is shown in
Annex 2. The schedule requires rapid mobilization of major financial and manpower resources.
Project preparation activities such as reconstruction of office facilities for the PIU have already
been completed under Bank-administered Dutch Trust Fund financing. The project is expected to
be completed by January 31, 1999. Project monitoring indicators are also in Annex 2.
C.    PROCUREMENT
67.   IDA's procurement rules for Bosnia Emergency Project would be applicable only to IDA-
financed packages and to those packages for which donors have agreed to follow the IDA
procurement rules. Procurement for all other packages will follow the rules defined by the
individual donors. The scope of procurement is based on preliminary inspection of the gas system
and is subject to change as more complete detailed design information becomes available in the
course of project implementation. The procurement procedures outlined below would apply to all
IDA-financed or IDA-managed procurement packages. The Bank's procurement rules were
introduced to Sarajevogas during project preparation in spring 1996, and a procurement and
disbursement seminar will be held at the Beneficiary upon Credit effectiveness.



18
68.   For procurement packages estimated to cost more than US$2 million each, International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used for goods and works. A General Procurement Notice
(GPN) was published in Development Business in April 1996, and a second notice was published
in May 1997. This notice includes information about the nature of goods and works to be
procured and invites interested and eligible suppliers to send their expression of interest to the
PIU. The GPN was also published in the local press and will be followed by specific
advertisements for individual contracts in the local press. Because of the emergency nature of the
project the period allowed for submission of bids may be reduced to four weeks. Bid and
payment currency may also be limited to one currency widely used in international trade.
69.   Limited International Bidding (LID), tendering by invitation, would be used for goods,
estimated to cost up to US$2 million per procurement package, and would be used only when
there are few potential suppliers. The list of LIB bidders would be based on the expression of
interest received in response to the GPN as well as other sources, such as Sarajevogas's
experience, etc. The list should broad enough to encourage effective competition.
70.   International Shopping (IS) would be used for procuring equipment and materials or
standard specification commodities, estimated to cost up to US$500,000 per contract, with the
aggregate amount not exceeding US$3.0 million. IS procedures are based on comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers in two countries.
71.   National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used for works up to US$2
million per package, not exceeding a cumulative total of about US$7.0 million.
72    National Shopping (NS) will be used for goods available within BH, such as office
firniture, equipment and supplies, up to an estimated costs of $100,000 per contract with at least
three quotations from national suppliers.
73.   Direct Contracting (DC) will be used for items of a proprietary nature or where direct
compatibility with installed equipment is required, i.e. for spare parts. Direct contracting would
have to be justified in each case.
74.   Consultant services would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines, using sole
sources contracting, QCBS and QBS. Sole source contracting would have to be justified in
each case. Such justification would include the time constraint, continuity, unique expertise, and
the lack of candidates given the situation in BH. Any sole sourcing during implementation would
be subject to IDA's approval. Follow-up assignments would be permissible to the extent that this
is indicated in the initial Terms of Reference for assignments. Disbursements for the PIU's
incremental operating costs, such as office rent, utilities, and incremental local staff costs, would
be made upon approval by IDA.
75.   The landmine component of the project would be carried out by the Emergency
Landmines Clearance Project (Credit No. 2905-BOS). Therefore, the procurement procedures
would be those used under the landmines project (National Competitive Bidding). The tasks
involved would be to (i) determine whether there are landmines in the areas where project works
are to be carried out; and (ii) remove the mines. The landmines project would be reimbursed for



19
these tasks from the IDA credit for the gas project. Procurement for the district heating
component of the project (para. 65) would be carried out using the procedures set forth for the
Emergency District Heating Reconstruction Project (Trust Fund No. 024034).
76.   Prior and ex post review by IDA of procurement documents. The Bank's standard
bidding documents would be used for ICB and LIB procurement packages. All ICB, LIB, NCB
and IS bidding documents, all consultants' contracts and NS contracts in excess of US$50,000
would require prior review by IDA. Prior Bank approval is required for any Direct Contracting.
A quarterly plan of incremental operating costs will need the Bank's prior review. Quarterly
accounting of actual expenditures of the subsequent quarter will be presented to the Bank for its
review. Contracts would be subject to an ex-post review at IDA's discretion. For consultants'
contracts, the Bank's standard form would be used. Procurement actions would be carried out in
close coordination with the Procurement Monitoring and Auditing Unit.
D.    DISBURSEMENTS
77.   The estimated disbursements schedule is summarized in Schedule B of the Memorandum
of the President. Disbursements are expected to be completed within one year from the date of
effectiveness.  To facilitate timely project implementation, the Beneficiary would establish,
maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to IDA, two Special Accounts in US dollars in
commercial banks acceptable to IDA the first being for disbursements other than in the district
heating component, the second being for the district heating component.  The authorized
allocation of the Special Account for the gas components would be limited to US$1.5 million,
representing about four months (average) of IDA's share of estimated expenditures expected to
be paid from the Special Account. The authorized allocation of the Special Account for the
district heating components would be limited to US$1.8 million. Replenishment applications
would be forwarded to IDA on a monthly basis, and must include reconciled bank statements as
well as other appropriate documents. For large contracts, IDA would make direct payments to
suppliers or contractors.
78.   The IDA Credit would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of the expenditures for directly
imported equipment, materials and services quoted on CIF basis; (b) 100% of local expenditures
of goods (ex-factory cost) and 85% of local expenditures for other goods procured locally; (c)
100% of civil works (net of taxes); (d) 100% of expenditures for consultants' services (Table 2);
and (e) 100% for incremental operating costs. Disbursements would be made against Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts for goods and works up to US$50,000, including
incremental operating costs and training. For these, detailed documents evidencing expenditures
would be reviewed by the PIU and made available for the required audit as well as IDA
supervision missions. Disbursements for contracts requiring the IDA's prior review would be
made against presentation to IDA of full contract documentation. Disbursements for incremental
operating costs would be made against expenditures under the plan approved by IDA. The
project completion date would be January 31, 1999 and the closing date would be July 30, 1999.



20
Table 2
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Category             Amount of the Credit           % Of
allocated            Expenditure to be
(US$ million)             Financed
(1) Civil works under:                              100% (net of taxes)
(a) Part B of the Project           2.05
(b) under Part D of the Project      1.25
| (2) Equipment and materials:                      100% of foreign Expenditures,
(a) under Part B of the Project     1.25         100% of local expenditures
(b) under Part C ofthe Project      3.75         (ex-factory cost) and 85% of
(c) under Part C of the Project               local expenditures for other
(c) under Part D of the Projectitmprcedlaly
items procured locally.
(3) Consultants' services, training     0.60        100%
and auditing
(4) Incremental operating costs         0.14
(5) Unallocated                         0.96
Part A: Engineering Analysis of Gas Transmission and Distribution System
Part B: Reconstruction Transmission System
Part C: Technical Assistance
Part D: District Heating Component
E.    AccouNTs, AUDITING AND REPORTING
79.   Separate and auditable project accounts would be established by the PIU. These accounts
would include: (i) a record of withdrawals on the IDA Credit with copies of all disbursement
requests and underlying documentation; and (ii) a record of transactions on the Special Accounts
and the copies of the bank statements on this account. Technical assistance has been included
under the project to establish proper accounts and financial controlling procedures.
80.   The financial statements of Sarajevogas and the project accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA. If Sarajevogas
so desires, the audits could be financed from the IDA Credit. Separate audit statements would be
prepared for the Special Accounts and for SOEs. All audit reports would be made available to
IDA at the latest six months after the end of the fiscal year. Project accounts would be
maintained for one year after they have been audited. Sarajevogas would separately prepare and
furnish to IDA quarterly progress reports showing the status of implementation of the project,
with special reference to the monitoring indicators (Annex 2), progress in billings and collections,



'21
purchases of gas, and semi-annual icome statements. Sarajevogas agreed to submit project
accounts and financial statements audited by an auditor acceptable to IDA.
F.    SUPERVISION PLAN
81.   Project implementation would require intensive IDA staff involvement, especially during
the first 4-5 months of implementation and would require a high degree of flexibility to adapt to
rapidly changing circumstances.  Implementation progress would be formally evaluated
approximately 5 months after effectiveness, when project implementation should be in full swing.
In addition, the Bank's Resident Mission in Sarajevo would assist in supervising initial project
implementation and would assist closely on matters requiring advice and rapid decisions by IDA,
such as procurement and disbursements.
VI. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ASPECTS
A.   PAST AND CURRENT FINANCIAL SITUATION
82.   Sarajevogas' financial statements, including forecasts up to the year 2000, are presented in
Annex 4. Before the war, -Sarajevogas was allowed to set tariffs which covered its operating
expenses plus a modest profit margin, and funding for major investments was provided (until
1990) by the Central Government. Sarajevogas' operations were severely affected by war
damages and the proliferation of unauthorized connections foliowing the shutdown of large parts
of the district heating system. By order of the City Government, consumers did not have to pay
for gas consumption during the war. Sarajevogas continued to operate its facilities during the
war, but incurred substantial losses, which were financed mainly through non-payment of
creditors, notably Gazexport for the period through October 9, 1995 (para 13). Payments
through 1996 were financed by Sarajevogas, the Sarajevo Canton and Federation Governments,
and grants from the Dutch and Turkish Governments. Gas payments in the first quarter of 1997
were made entirely by Sarajevogas.
83.   Cost Structure. At normal operating levels, gas purchases account for about 70% of
Sarajevogas' total operating expenses, and an even larger share (90%) of its cash operating
expenses. Sarajevogas' operating and maintenance costs are at acceptable levels; however, these
levels are partly due to depressed wages and salaries. As wage and salary levels increase,
management will need to give attention to measures to increase productivity. Depreciation
charges (only about 0.5% of gross fixed assets in some years) will need to be raised to appropriate
levels and be reflected in Sarajevogas' tariffs so that the company can generate sufficient cash flow
to finance normal levels of investments and operations. In addition, Sarajevogas will need to
revalue its assets.



22
84.   Tariffs. The current tariff structure is differentiated by classes of consumers: households,
schools, kindergartens and Toplane-Sarajevo (the district heating company) pay about US$0.17
per m3; hospitals, clinics, social and cultural facilities pay about US$0.22 per m3; and commercial
establishments and industrial enterprises pay about US$0.26 per m3. These tariffs cover, in
principle, operating expenses including normal repair and maintenance and a small (1-2%) profit
margin, but do not allow for substantial financing of investments. While there are no lifeline
tariffs in effect at present, the Canton of Sarajevo provides ad hoc support to low-income
consumers for their gas use. A proposal to increase tariff levels by about 25% for the first
category and by 12% for the second is under consideration by the Sarajevo Canton Government.
85.   Metering, Billing and Collection. Prior to the war, Sarajevogas' main consumers were:
(i) Toplane - Sarajevo, which accounted for about 50% of the gas purchased; (ii) about 1,600
smaller users, including restaurants, shops, and other commercial establishments; (iii) about 400
larger, including industrial, users; and (iv) about 15,000 households that were not connected to
the district heating system. Most of these users were metered. During the war, parts of
Sarajevogas' office facilities, including its billing and collection system, were destroyed and billing
and collection was suspended for household consumers. The billing system has mostly been
restored, upgraded and reintroduced with the aid of UN funding; the first complete billing cycles
took place during January-March of 1997, but were interrupted when the gas supply to BH was
first gradually diminished and then cut off (para. 14). Nevertheless some 70% of all bills have
been collected since then. It is expected that bill collection will reach higher levels now that the
gas supply has been restored and once consumers regain confidence in the continuity of supply.
86.   Payables. Payables by Sarajevogas do not include an estimated US$105 million owed to
Gazexport for the period 1992 to October 1995; Sarajevogas is not carrying this amount on its
books pending resolution of this issue (para. 13). In addition, there are debts incurred prior to the
war, which Sarajevogas was not able to service during the war. This includes, principally, an
amount of US$40 million including overdue principal and interest under IBRD Loan No. 1264-
YU which was consolidated in June 1996 for repayment under the Bank's Consolidation Loan
(Loan No. 4039) to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Consequently, Sarajevogas has become a debtor to
the Government and will need to bear the debt service on its share of the Consolidation Loan.
For the period 1997 to 2000, this would involve annual interest payments of around US$2.65
million per year, but no repayment of principal, given the grace period of five years.
B.    FUTURE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
87.   Annual gas consumption was about 213 million m3 in 1996; it is expected to be only 120
million m3 in 1997, since gas supplies have been interrrupted since April 1, 1997. Taking into
account the expected improvements in gas consumption efficiency under the project on the one
hand, and increases in industrial/commercial demand on the other hand, annual gas consumption is
projected to be 190 million m3 in 1998, 200 million in m3 in 1999 and 203 million m3 in 2000.
Given the continuing difficulties faced by households in the post-war period, cost recovery (in
terms of the percentage of total annual cash operating expenses covered) can realistically be
expected to be no more than 60, 100 and 140 % in 1997, 1998 and 1999 respectively. Shortfalls,
if any, would be made up by the Canton of Sarajevo. Sarajevogas agreed to institute billing



23
and collection systems resulting in collection of at least 60%, 100% and 140% of total
annual cash operating expenses for 1997, 1998 and 1999 respectively. Details of the
financing plan for 1996 to 1999 are in Annex 4. The summary plan is shown in Table 3 below.
TABLE 3: SARAJEVOGAS FINANCING PLAN, 1996 - 1999
(US$ MILLION)
3=
Intemnal Sources         13        23     Emergency Project        44      79
Other Investments        3       5
IDA Credit and Other     31        55
Donors
Equity Contributions     12        22     Changes  in  Working    9        16
Capital and Cash
Total Sources       56        100          Total Uses         56      100
T* his includes about US$11.4 million still to be confirmed by donors.
88.   Due to the interrupted- gas supplies and the still low (although improving) revenue
collection rates in 1997, Sarajevogas is expected to incur a cash deficit in 1997 which will be
covered primarily by the Canton of Sarajevo. However, starting in 1998, as a result of the higher
tariff rates (para. 84) and the expected improvement in collection rates, Sarajevogas should be
able to generate adequate internal cash flows and to reach full cost recovery levels by 1999,
including depreciation. This would enable Sarajevogas to make the necessary investments to
progressively replace and renovate its largely depreciated assets after completion of the
emergency project, and to make the annual repayment of its share of the maturities of the Bank's
Consolidated Loan as they fall due starting with the year 2001.
C.    ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
89.   Comparison of Heating Options. During the war, coal and oil (and generally wood)
were not available for space heating. Electricity supplies were sharply reduced and were only
sporadically available for short periods of time. Hence space heating with electricity - widespread
before the war - also was no longer an option. The gas-fired district heating system was partly
damaged early in the war and could supply only one-third of its normal service area. The
availability of natural gas, although at low pressure and in restricted quantities, led about 74,000
households and some commercial entities to make their own improvised connections to the gas
network. These installations are very unsafe: since their introduction there have been 220
explosions related to gas use, resulting in 32 fatalities and more than 200 injuries. In addition, the
installations last for only one to two years and use up to twice as much gas to produce the same
useful heat as would be needed for proper installations. This improvised heat supply option was
adopted under the severest of emergency conditions and obviously should be replaced as soon as



24
possible. Some 34,000 customers have already been switched back to district heating. Under the
proposed project, 38,000 irregular household connections would be converted to regular gas
connections and the 15,000 pre-war household gas connections would be rehabilitated (the
meter/regulator sets on these connections need to be repaired or replaced). All 53,000 gas
consumers would be fully regularized by the end of 1998. The altemative option of supplying
these customers with district heat would be very costly because of the distance from existing heat
networks; these networks serve apartment buildings whereas the direct gas household consumers
live in detached dwellings. Comparisons with other alternative space heating and cooking options
confirmed that gas is less costly than electricity (using either ordinary space heaters or storage
heaters that operate only during off-peak hours) or a combination of fuel oil for space heating and
liquified petroleum gas (LPG) for cooking (Annex 5).
90.   Economic Rate of Return Calculation.   An economic rate of return is normally not
calculated for emergency reconstruction projects since the need for those investments is usually
evident and the data needed for the calculation are often deficient. However, an estimate was
made for the proposed project since some useful data on benefits have become available as a
result of investments already made for the project, especially on meters and a computerized billing
system.
91.   In the absence of the project most consumers are assumed to use their existing (or
improved) irregular connections. This has occurred up to now, and new inhabitants of houses
abandoned at the end of the war have made new irregular connections. The benefits of the project
include: (i) avoided costs of new or replaced irregular connections; (ii) avoided gas transmission
and distribution losses; (iii) avoided costs from gas explosions; (iv) avoided uneconomic
consumption of gas due to the absence of meters and regulators; and (v) the avoided cost of
substitute energy that would be needed if the irregular connection system had to be shut down for
safety reasons because of the danger posed by ever greater gas leaks over time.
92.   The above benefits were estimated as follows:
(i) The avoided connection cost benefit assumes that, in the absence of the project, 38,000
improvised connections would be replaced every two years at a cost per connection of
DM150 (DM 30 for a steel saddle, DM 20 for steel pipe and DM 100 for indoor
installation).
(ii) The avoided transmission and distribution loss estimate assumes that, in the absence of
the project, losses, mostly in the irregular distribution network, would rise from about 4%
of gas consumption by households in 1997 to 10% in 2000, after which distribution to
households would be shut off because of the danger of explosions.3 The lost gas is valued
at the delivered import gas cost of $118/thousand ni3 plus operating cost of $3/thousand
m3.
3 Individual consumers would not repair the improvised leaking network on their own unless they know that it is
the sections they had built which are leaking.



25
(iii) The avoided accident cost estimate assumes, in the absence of the project, 28
explosions per year (equal to the rate since an odorant was added to the gas) and a cost of
DM125,000 to replace a destroyed house and contents. No account is taken of the costs
attributable to deaths or injuries. While most recent explosions have been in empty
dwellings, they can occur in dwellings where elderly persons live who cannot smell leaking
gas or where children too young to deal with a gas leak are left alone.
(iv) The avoided uneconomic gas consumption was estimated on the basis of data for the
months of December 1996 to March 1997, during which Sarajevogas's new computerized
billing system was in effect. Average consumption by unmetered households (mostly
irregular) during this period was 43% higher than consumption by metered (regularized)
households. The extra consumption was due to the absence of regulators (which reduce
gas pressure from 100 millibars to 25-35 millibars) and billing based on unmetered
consumption (as a result, the unmetered consumer has no incentive to limit consumption).
The value of this extra consumption to an individual consumer would be very small. It
was assumed to be one-quarter of the retail household gas price of DM 37/m3 for each
extra m3 consumed. The cost of the extra consumption was valued at the import price of
US$118/thousand m3 plus US$3/thousand m3 for operating costs. The net extra cost is
US$9.34/m3 of extra consumption.
(v) The avoided cost of a fuel substitute was estimated as the difference between the cost
of heating and cooking by gas (assuming regularized connections) and the cost of heating
with fuel oil and cooking with liquified petroleum gas (Annex 5). The oil alternative was
selected rather than the more widely used electricity option, since its cost was estimated to
be lower.
93.   For purposes of the rate of return calculation, the costs were taken as the total project
cost ($43.5 million) less the transmission investment in RS (US$1.5 million) and the cost of
studies of sector restructuring and alternative gas supply sources (US$1.85 million). The RS
transmission component was excluded since it is already taken into account in the fee for gas
transit through RS. The studies were excluded because of the difficulty of quantifying their
benefits, even though they could be large.
94.   The cost and benefit estimates exclude taxes. The existing exchange rate of US$1.00 =
DM1.75 was considered to be equal to the shadow rate of foreign exchange because of the use of
the DM as the main domestic currency in the Federation. Actual wage rates were assumed in the
absence of a reliable estimate of a shadow wage rate. However, a sensitivity calculation is shown
below in which the voluntary labor of gas consumers in helping construct regularized connections
is valued at zero rather than US$9.1 million.
95.   The internal economic rate of return was estimated to be 30%, which is more than
satisfactory (the calculation is in Annex 6). Sensitivity tests were carried out with respect to
changes in key parameters in order to determine the switching values. The changes needed to
reduce the rate of return to the assumed opportunity cost of capital of 12% would be: (i) a 300%
increase in the 1998 investment cost; or (ii) a 110% increase in the delivered natural gas import



26
price; or (iii) a 40% reduction in heating oil and LPG prices; or (iv) a 60% reduction in household
gas consumption. Postponing the assumed date of shutdown of the improvised gas system would
reduce the rate of return, but even a postponement beyond the year 2011 would not bring the rate
down to 12%. If voluntary labor in constructing regular distribution network and installing
improvised gas connections is valued at zero, the rate of return would rise to 42%.
96.   Sensitivity tests were also carried out to evaluate whether the risk of future interruption in
gas supplies would offset the advantage of natural gas over electricity. While the conclusion of
satisfactory contracts for the import of natural gas should assure a continuous supply to Sarajevo
from now on, another interruption due to political events in RS cannot be entirely ruled out.
Many households have already taken precautions against further interruptions by buying electric
heaters and/or maintaining the possibility of using wood as fuel. In these circumstances, it is
justifiable to add the cost of the appliances for using substitute energy to the cost of the natural
gas option. From Annex 5, it can be seen that by including in the gas option the cost of four
electric storage heaters per household for all 53,000 gas-connected households (which would
provide the same amount of heat) the gas option would still have a lower present value of costs
than the option of using electricity with storage heaters. The electricity option (with storage
heaters) would, however, become less costly than the gas option if gas would not be available for
more than the next two years. The prospects of such an outcome are slim, first since households
would spend much less than assumed here on electric space heaters for back-up use, and, second,
since a two-year interruption in gas supplies is highly unlikely.
D.   RISKS
97.   There are no significant risks associated with this project, other than a renewed outbreak
of hostilities or interruption of the gas supply by RS for political reasons. Consumers' ability to
pay, while still low, has been increasing steadily. Any operating deficits would be funded by the
Sarajevo Canton budget, which is quite robust, or services would have to be cut back. However,
the financial risk of Sarajevogas having inadequate cash flow is addressed by the project's
emphasis on speedy reintroduction of billing and collection and by agreeing on specific minimum
targets for collections on an annual basis. A tariff study would be implemented and, over the
longer term, tariffs ought to reflect costs in order to ensure adequate enterprise cash flow to
maintain and expand the system. Project cost overruns are possible, despite the inclusion of a
10% physical contingency on the uncommitted portion of the project, if the damage in certain
areas turns out to be more severe than expected. Implementation delays might occur because of
unexpected technical complications and because of a possible multiplicity of procurement
procedures, depending on the number of donors and international financial institutions involved.
The latter risk is manageable, because qualified experts will assist Sarajevogas in procurement and
project implementation. The risk of the project's financing plan remaining incomplete (financing
gap) has been mitigated by the design of the project, with the higher priority investments being
carried out first. Furthermore, the remaining financing gap is quite small and expected to be
closed soon. The most serious risk, future interruptions of the gas supply, has been mitigated by
the conclusion of satisfactory long-term agreements with Gazexport and the transit companies in
Hungary, FRY and Republika Srpska, respectively.



27
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
98.   Agreement was reached with the Borrower that it would:
(a) ensure that any licenses, permits and approvals required for rapid reconstruction will
be granted promptly (para. 64);
(b) on-lend the funds through the Federation on standard IDA terms to Sarajevogas for a
35 year maturity (para. 60); and
(c) complete, by October 31, 1998, a sector restructuring study for the gas sector, and a
gas tariff study, and take appropriate measures to implement agreed actions thereafter
(para. 53).
99.   Agreement was reached with Sarajevogas that it would:
(a) maintain a Project Implementation Unit with management and staffing acceptable to
IDA (para. 63);
(b) institute billing and collection systems resulting in coliection of at least 60%, 100% and
140% of total annual cash operating expenses for 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively
(para. 87); and
(c) submit project accounts and financial statements audited by an auditor acceptable to
IDA (para. 80).
100.  Conditions of effectiveness would be: (i) full and adequate staffing of the PIU in
Sarajevogas; and (ii) execution of a subsidiary credit agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina
and Sarajevogas.






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 1
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(US$ million)
::::::..::.:+..::..k:y,  *........   . ...V
A. ENGINEERING          1.0        0.90       0.45        0.00       0.00       0.35         0.00      0.00      0.20
B. TRANSMISION         7.105       4.98       1.525       0.00       0.20       0.40         0.00      0.00      0.00
C. DISTRIBUTION        30.34       3.54       6.40       2.12        0.54       2.11         9.10      3.69      2.84
D. PLANNING, TA         1.10       0.29       0.81       0.00        0.00       0.00         0.00      0.00      0.00
E. BILLING             0.60        0.00      000 000               0.00       0.00         0.00      000       0.60
SOFTWARE &
EQUIPMENT                  l                                                                                         I
F. LANDMINE            030   | 0.00           0.30        0.00       000        000          0.00      0.00     0.00
CLEARING
G. ALTERNATIVE   |0.75   | 0.75    |0.00  T               .0 o.0 oo Ioo        0.oo   T      .oo    T  o        oo
GAS SUPPLY
H. PHYSICAL             1.45   0.935   0.515                 0.00                                    0.0   0.00
CONTINGENCIES        1                                                                     .                 3.64
TOTAL                 43.545  I  11.395  [10.00            14                   2.86    1    9.10      3.69     3.64
I/ Other Donors include: City of Ankara Turkey (US$ 1,000,000), City of Modena, Italy (US$ 140,000); City of Bolzano, Italy
(US$ 260,000); Quatar Relief Fund (US$ 320,000); Saudi Arabia/IRC (US$ 135,000); USAID/IRC (US$ 750,000); Egypt,
Kuwait, Saudi Arabia (US$ 120,000); International Islamic Humanitarian Organization (US$ 15,000) and MDD Merhaimet (US$
100,000); various foreign gas companies (US$150,000)



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule*
(Actual Dates start Dec '97)
Actvt              2    4    6    s    10   12   14   16   is   20   22    24    26    2s    30    32   34    36    3s   40   42   44    46  4s    so  52  54  56  ss
A   ENGINEERING             0 FIIITIIII       m WI                                       m F/// F//// E    //   /=      =/   / =   /= 
AlInspection and survey
A.2   Analysis, design, supervision                                          N       EEEEE E E W1= 11111 =   MEMOEE        = = = 
A.3   Su(pervision                                                                                               =                   _
A.4   E-xpert services, Quaaliy Control====                                    =         =                 =            = =          =
B     TRANSMISSION====                       E
B.2    Vlve, mitenacOD -_====_  = =e= =       ====
B.3    Metering and regulation ________                                                                ____
B.4   Cathodic protection____                                  __ __ ________
B.5 Small spares/maintenance
C.    DISTRIBUTION                                                              =       =                     == = _-
C.l   Large consumer instalJation __   _     ___                                                                   = = = = =
C.2    D srllfon  ig_____                ___=__
C.3    Measurement and regulation                       __        _.      _ _________ __
C.4   SmaU spareslmaintenance
C.5   House installations=_===_====== == ======== = = = = = = =
D  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE________                  =      =                                                    - -               ==
_    & EQUIPMENT                                                                                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _
F   LAND MINE CLEARING  ___|EgggggSSE           
G  SUPPLY STUDY                                                                                        _ _ _ = = _ _ 
H  CONTINGENCIES (10%)    ____________ __ _________ _ _ _ _ _ _m 2
*Schedule is related to uncompleted components



ANNEX 2
PAGE 2 of 2
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
I.    The ratio of gas revenue collection to cash operating expenses of Sarajevogas.
2.    Outstanding accounts payable for gas imports from Gazeport:
(a) total
(b) for gas purchases under the 1997-1999 gas import contract
3.    Quantity of gas imports in standard cubic meters.
4.    The number of regularized natural gas connections.
5.    The number of efficient heaters and cookers installed under the project.
6.    The number of efficient heaters and cookers installed under the project.
7.    The number of new and repaired meters under the project as a percentage of the
number of consumers.
8.    Gas supply interruptions:
(a) total number per kilometer of distribution pipeline network
(b) average duration



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Detailed Procurement Plan
PACKAGE                         |TotalCost    IDA    |Procurement|            MajorMilestones 2
US$ mill.   Amount    Method           i. B,d  C-.,,wt , ck
.gB g .. ..... i. . ..........................
A.1            Inspection and survey 3              0.35
A.2            Analysis, design, supervision        1.00      _              QCBS          1         8         44
A.3           0Supervision                          030          0.30        QCBS          1         8         44
A.4            Exert services, Qualitv Control      0.25         0.15          SS          9        11         58
RI       Pipeline reconstrucion                     4.2s         0. so                     17       21         51
Components
Works: civil works                        0.50         0.25         NCB
mechanical works                  0.50        0.25         NCB
Goods: line pipe: NSP 16, X52, Grade B     1.25                     LIB
construction expendable
- spae parts
Comnleted components 3                    0.50
Comwonents 1n RS 
R2        Valve maintenance                         0.13                                | 17        21        43
Comoleted components
-   block valve maintenance
-   take off valves maintenance
-   scrapper traps maintenance   I
R3       Metering and regulation                    1.625       0.725                      17       21        43
Components
Works: slice packaging
-   new measurement station            0.35        0.25         NCB
Kladanj                                0.15         0.15          IS
Goods: turbine meters NSP 10 and
metering instrumentation, spares   0.26         0.26         LIB
- misc. piping, valves and fitting,
spares                             0.30
Competed components
Works: slice packaging                    0.20
-  Butila, Hum, Zvomik                  .
rehabilitation                     0.30
Goods:                                    005         005i
-  turbine meters NSP 10 and          0.065        0.065         IS
metering instrumentation, spares
-  misc. piping, valves and fitting,
spares
-   gas chromatograph             .                                                          I
R4       Cathodic protection                        0. so 
Comoleted components                      0.50
-  replacement and repair of            .
damaged cathodic protection a
as       Small spares/maintencnce materials         0.60         0.30                      9        13        21
Components
-  individual spares                   0.10        0.10          DC
-  spares for valves, metering        0.499        0.20          IS
regulator stations, line pipes, tape
coat, cathodic protection



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Detailed Procurement Plan
PACKAGE                          Total Cost   IDA   |Procurement MaiorMilestones
US$ mnll.  Amount    Method         Bl     d   co.q,W
.............  - --------- F!w     maw~~~-                      -     - 
Cl   Large consumer instalatwon                        0.90       0.71                    17    21    41
Comoonents
Mechanical works                                0.18        0.10       NCB
Goods:                                          0.25       0.14         IS
-   large consumers meters G40-G250
-   coffectors
-   spare parts
Comleted comnonents 3
-  district heating system regulation           0.47        0.471
C_2   Distribution piping                             IL.0)       0.30   _             1 13    1 7 _47
Components
Mechanical and civil works                      0.20                   NCB
Goods:                                          0.30        .30          IS
-   Polyethylene pipe 63-225 mm n
-   fusing fittings
-   house connections
-   valves for network
-   spare parts
Completed components                            10.51
G3   Measurement and regulation                       14.30       5.10        |_I               8    47
Components
Works slice/package C 10000                     0.80       0.80        NCB
Goods:
-  meters G4 and other boxes and fittings,   1.50
spares
-  regulators with under/over pressure safety  1.04
installation valves, spares
Coemeted comDonents 3
Works slice/package B 18000                     3.18        0.72        ICB
Works slice/package A 7000                      2.00        0.65       NCB
Goods:
-  meters G4 and other boxes and fittings,   4.18       2.43        ICB
spares
-  regulators with under/over pressure safety  1.60     0.50        ICB
installation valves, spares
C.4   SmU sparesnaintenance materia|                   0.63       0.40         |1  1                  16
Components
-   individual spares                        0.13       0.10        DC
-   mini trucks/pick ups                     0.20       0.20         IS
-   equipmentformaintenance                  0.10       0.10         iS
Completed components 3                          0.20
C5   House isaUations                                  3.50
Components
Works slice/packaging                           1.50                   NCB
Goods:                                          0.50                    iS
-   wallheaters
-   cookers
-   fitting and piping
Completed cemponents 3                      1   1.50    9         I



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Detailed Procurement Plan
PACKAGE                       Total Cost  IDA    Procurement.        Maior
US$ mill.  Amount   MethodI        Milestones2
Opmi  Ad  CmiX
Bid.  Co.tn. 
TOTAL                                     43.545     10.00
Notes:
I Valid for direct IDA financing or IDA-administered financing
2Time in weeks from Board approval
3Packages completed before Credit effectiveness
using Project Start-Up Advance or financing by other than IDA/IDA-administered funds
4Components in Republika Srpska will not be financed from the IDA Credit for this project
3Includes strategic planning, sector restructuring and tariff studies and financial audits
6 Completed components do not contain contingencies



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Sarajevogas - Income Statements
(US$ Million)
JEstimate      Estimate  |     _     _  Forecast                           1
1995*      1996*        1997    [   1998         1999         2000
REVENUES
From Gas Sales                                6.91         852         22.93       43.35        47.28       48.51
Other Income                                  0.15         0.72         0.73        0.80         0.88        0.97
Subsidies from Canton                         6.90        19.50
Total Revenues                                13.96       28.73        23.66       44.15        48.16       49.48
EXPENDITURES
Gas                                           12.59       19.67        14.53        22.41       23.60       24.07
Spares and Maintenance                        0.00         0.23         0.27         0.30        0.31        0.33
Other Materials                               0.30         0.05         0.06         0.07        0.07        0.08
Services                                      0.21         0,12         0.13         0.25        0.27        0.30
Wages & Salaries                               0.17        0.79         1.50         1.54         1.59        1.64
Depreciation                                  4.76         5.69         5.89         7.20        8.69        9.40
Compulsory Contributions                      0.01         0.12         0.13         0.65        0.65        0.65
Interest Charges**                             1.83        1.33         2.71         2.82        2.88        2.88
Other Expenses                                 0.00        0.25         0.26         0.50        0.55         0.60
Import Duties and Taxes                                    0.98         0.73         1.34        1.42        1.44
Total Operating Expenses                      19.87       29.23        26.21        37.08       40.03       41.38
Provisions and Prior Year Adjustments         4.84         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
Provisions for Doubtful Receivables            0.00        5.96         4.35        12.75        3.55         3.64
Total Non-Operating Expenses                   4.84        5.96         4.35        12.75         3.55        3.64
Total Expenses                                24.71       35.19        30.56        49.83       43.57       45.02
NET INCOME                      -10.75        -6.46        -6.90       -5.68         4.58        4.46       Z
Cash Operating Ratio                            2.2         9.2          1.1          1.0          0.7         0.7    * Z
* Based on unaudited financial statements.                                                                              co 4



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Sarajevogas - Balance Sheets
(US$ Million)
Estimate    Estimate   _              Forecast              l
1995*      1996*        1997         1998         1999   l_|_2000
ASSETS
Cash and Banks                                 0.11         0.10         0.10        0.35         9.35        17.34
Inventories                                    0.33         1.09         1.50        1.65         2.40         2.85
Net Accounts Receivable**                      0.27         1.25        2.90         6.55         5.05         5.60
Total Current Assets                           0.71         2.44         4.50        8.55        16.80        25.79
Gross Fixed Assets                           135.00       156.40       163.32      180.04       183.04       188.04
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                81.91        87.60        93.49      100.69       109.39       118.79
Net Fixed Assets                              53.09        68.80       69.83        79.35        73.65        69.25
Total Assets                                  53.80        71.24        74.33       87.89        90.45        95.04
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Accounts Payable                               0.36         2.86         5.92        8.57         6.54         6.68
Other Current Liabilities
Total Current Liabilities                      0.36         2.86         5.92        8.57         6.54         6.68
Medium & Long Term Loans                      39.00        48.54       55.46        60.69        60.69        60.69
Expected Donor Financing***                    0.00         0.00         0.00       11.37        11.37        11.37
Equity Contributions****                       0.00        11.86        11.86       11.86        11.86        11.86
Founders' Equity & Retained Earnings          14.44         7.98         1.08        -4.60        -0.01        4.44
Total Equity                                  14.44        19.84        12.94        7.26        11.85        16.30
Total Liabilities & Equity                    53.80        71.24        74.33       87.89        90.45        95.04
Current Ratio                                  1.97         0.85         0.76        1.00         2.57         3.86
Debt:Equity Ratio                             73:27        74:26        84:16        94:6        89:11        85:15       n Z
* Based on unaudited statements.                                                                                           54 X
** Accounts receivable net of cumulative provisions made.
*** Donor commitment awaited.
Citizens' and other local contributions to project financing.



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Sarajevogas - Funds Flow Statements
(US$ Million)
ll Estimate    |Forecast                                     |     Total     l
l____________________________________ l           1996             1997            1998           1999        1996-1999
SOURCES
Net Income                                             -6.46          -6.90            -5.68          4.58         -14.46
Depreciation                                           5.69            5.89             7.20          8.69          27.48
Internal Funds Generation                            -0.77           -1.01             1.52        13.28          13.02
Equity Contributions*                                 11.86            0.00             0.00          0.00          11.86
IDA Credit                                             0.00            4.77             5.23          0.00          10.00
Donors (Committed)                                     8.04            2.15             0.00          0.00          10.19
Donors (To be Secured)                                 0.00            0.00            11.37          0.00          11.37
Total Sources                                        19.13            5.92            18.12        13.28          56.45
APPLICATIONS
Emergency Project                                     19.90            6.92            16.72          0.00          43.54
Other Investments**                                    0.00            0.00             0.00          3.00           3.00
Changes in Working Capital and Cash Balances           -0.77          -1.00             1.40         10.28           9.91
Total Applications                                   19.13            5.92            18.12        13.28          56.45
*contributions for financing of the project
3
Z
X M



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Comparison of Heating Options
(US$million)
1     2    3    4       5      6       7         8        9        10       11        12       13       14       15       16       17
Night            Night
Rate     Storage Rate
Year Project Fuel O&M Total   Gas   Total Cost Adjusted  Fuel Cost Fuel Cost Total   Energy Cost Heater Total Cost Electricity Heater Total Cost
cost   Cost      Cost    Heater with Heater Cost   Oil       LPG      Oil Cost Electricity   Cost  Electricity Cost  Cost   Electricity
1997   22.2    5  0.7    27.9  22.6        50.5    25.11      5.4       1.1     6.5       19.2    10       29.2       7.7   30.2       37.9
1998     18 11.9  3.2    33.1  31.9         65    29.79      25.9      2.7    28.6        83.8  14.2        98      33.4   42.5        75.9
1999        12.4  3.2    15.6              15.6    14.04     27.3      2.7      30        88.2             88.2     35.3               35.3
2000        12.4  3.2    15.6              15.6    14.04     27.3       2.7     30        88.2             88.2     35.3               35.3
2001        12.4  3.2    15.6              15.6    14.04     27.3       2.7      30        88.2            88.2      35.3              35.3
2002         12.4  3.2    15.6             15.6    14.04     27.3       2.7      30        88.2            88.2      35.3              35.3
2003        12.4  3.2    15.6              15.6    14.04     27.3       2.7      30       88.2             88.2      35.3              35.3
2004        12.4  3.2    15.6              15.6    14.04     27.3       2.7      30       88.2             88.2     35.3               35.3
2005        12.4  3.2    15.6              15.6    14.04     27.3       2.7      30       88.2             88.2      35.3              35.3
2006        12.4  3.2    15.6              15.6    14.04     27.3       2.7     30        88.2             88.2      35.3              35.3
2007        12.4  3.2    15.6              15.6    14.04     27.3       2.7     30        88.2             88.2      35.3              35.3
2008        12.4  3.2    15.6              15.6    14.04     27.3       2.7     30        88.2             88.2      35.3              35.3
2009        12.4  3.2    15.6              15.6    14.04     27.3       2.7      30       88.2             88.2     35.3               35.3
2010        12.4  3.2    15.6              15.6    14.04     27.3       2.7      30       88.2             88.2      35.3              35.3
2011        12.4  3.2    15.6       1      15.6    14.04     27.3       2.7      30       88.2             88.2      35.3              35.31
NPV (12% discount rate)    131.2         176.8    118.1                       182.2                      555.9              60.8     275.1
Assumptions:
Column 2: total project cost ($43.5 million) less transmission investments in RS($1.5 million) and studies ($1.85 million).
Column 3: household gas consumption attributable to the project of 22 million m3 in 1997,105 million m3 in 1998 and 110 million m3 in 1999 times import price
of $118/thousand m3.
Column 4: assumes $3/thousand m3 based on Sarajevogas' forecast for 1998.
Column 5: sum of columns 2, 3 and 4.
Column 6: assumes four 3.5 kW gas heaters per household, $257/heater, 22,000 households in 1997 and 53,000 thereafter.
Column 7: sum of columns 5 and 6.
Column 8: column 5 adjusted down by 10% to take account of the gas option's convenience and environmental benefits compared to the oil option.
Column 9: assumes same consumption of oil as gas for household space heating, 20 million liters in 1997, 96 million in 1998 and 101 million in 1999 and after.
The heating oil price is assumed to be US$0.27 per liter, which is below the actual price of $0.34. However, this price is comparable to costs in other countries.
Column 10: assumes an LPG price of $36/million kcals, 1.4 million kcals/ household per year for cooking, 22,000 households in 1997 and 53,000 households after.
Column 11: the sum of column 9 and column 10.
Column 12: assumes 9.7 kWh/m3 of gas and the same electricity use as for gas (22 million m3 in 1997, 105 million m3 in 1998 and 110 million m3 thereafter)  >
The electricity is valued at the average long run marginal cost for low-voltage customers, estimated at $0.09/kWh                                      G >
Column 13: assumes four 3.5 kW heaters per household at $114/heater, for 22,000 households in 1997 and 53,000 households thereafter.                   m z
Column 14: the sum of columns 12 and 13.                                                                                                                  m
Column 15: the same assumptions as for column 12, except the electricity for heating (90% of the total) is valued at the off-peak marginal cost
estimated at $0.03/kWh.
Column 16: assumes four electric storage heaters/household at $343/heater, for 22,000 households in 1997 and 53,000 thereafter.



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of I
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Calculation of the Economic Rate of Retum
(US$million)
Year  Costs                           Benefits                         Net
Project   Avoided    Avoided  Avoided  Avoided       Avoided   Benefits
Cost/I   Irregular   T&D       Accident Uneconomic   Oil Cost/6
Connections/2 Losses/3  Costs/4   Consumption/5
1996     15.0                                                            -15.0
1997      7.2        1.7       0.4       0.7        0.7                   -3.7
1998     18.0       1.6        0.6      2.0         3.2                  -10.6
1999                1.7        1.1      2.0         3.2                    8.0
2000                 1.6       1.3       2.0        3.2                    8.1
2001                                                            16.0      16.0
2002                                                            16.0      16.0
2003                                                            16.0      16.0
2004                                                            16.0      16.0
2005                                                            16.0      16.0
2006                                                            16.0      16.0
2007                                                            16.0      16.0
2008                                                            16.0      16.0
2009                                                            16.0      16.0
2010                                                            16.0      16.0
2011                                                            16.0      16.0
IRR=         30%
Assumptions:
1/ Total project cost($43.5 million) less investments in RS($1.5 million) and studies($1.85 million).
2/ Replacement of half of 38,000 irregular connections each year at a cost of $86/connection.
3/ Losses of 4%, 6%, 8% and 10% in 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000, respectively, of household
consumption of 77 million m3, 105 million m3, 110 million m3 and 110 million m3, respectively
valued at the import price of $118/thousand m3 plus O&M of $3/thousand m3.
4/ Damages from 28 explosions per year repaired at a cost of $71,000! building damaged.
The 1997 total is lower since only one-third of the connections were regularized by the project.
5/ Extra consumption is assumed to be 43% of household consumption of 22 million m3 in 1997,
105 million m3 in 1998, and 110 million m3 in 1999 and 2000. The 1997 number is the estimated
consumption of metered consumers (9,000 in early 1997, 22,000 at the end of the year).
The cost of the extra consumption was valued at $121/thousand m3 (import price plus O&M).
The benefit was valued at one-quarter of the extra consumption times the retail price of $0.22/m3.
The net cost is the difference between the cost and the benefit.
6/ The estimate is equal to the difference between the cost of heating with oil and the cost of
heating with gas (Column 11 minus Column 8 in Annex 5).






IBRD 27825
Bosoos7joo,  RosooAo  -  Th~~~~~~~~~~Aq  A                                                                              Karakal ~~~~ZVORNIK
Prijedor  ooooooioo Brod  O5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ZENICA                                                                  S~~~~~~nagovo
B,ho~~~ Boo         &'OoIoooO                                                            Penn Han ~~~~~~~~0KLADANJEKVC
W  a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iozai
CROA TIA                                                             c MkoorojKAKpANJni
ko  v00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~opkei
N>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                       6
B~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V                                                                          GorieMoo16
~~V-   &o~~~oSAk~~~AA  ( 
y" v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kk
JoPiroo~~~~~~~~~ 'oc  cm   E ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      Vsoni
>94;& JA               -BOSNA ANDHERZEOVIN
K  'dir  650~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lia
i;,1.  $viQt~~~~~>7k       BiIoooQ (SERB{/2tMONTENEGROI                            EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEMemizova
RECONSTRUCTION PROJEC
~~~~ ~~~~~~>0~.6-
~~   <~~~~crrc'm~~~~~~>   ~~~  ..  .                                        TRANSMISSION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PLNA D SC E A I
5, ~~~~~  ~~~  ct,~~~~~~7W  A  urA', 'd'cS    dccc' j$ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Buil
4:m~' mot',t\ 22                / GERAN REPS   rAE                AILNWGZ0             M ROADSNAT                        RAL  SCAPER BSCYVLESTATIO
0~~ 55  ,r' ~~~ ~~~j~y2 <''Xc   ,  7'7k .oA~~~~~~Ac  tO  ROMAn A Sf,AS QIPLIBLOCIT  AE CAE,BOK VALVE STATION
,,,,  >050   <;~~~~~~~oA  j>O~~~~N   ,j'5ro                              0  SELECTS~~AJO RODCIES                      CITDRAIN  STATION
~~> 'KNI "'-N  "   ~~~~~~~~kr~~~or~~NSk'2                              N~~~ATIONALCAPTALCRAPPELIN                         OCE ALESTTO
At~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0A A'A7
BAWl 50~~~~~~~~~~              000K ~~~~~~~~                    -~~DAYTON AGREEMENT LINES                A      BRANCH CONNECTION
to    to ,.    co~~~~~~~hQ~~%~~  ~ ~     '>'~~~ ~~'A  di ~~~~                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NOVEMBER 1991






IBRD 2782
0            1           2KILOMETERS                                     BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEM                                                FTR          8 BAR PRESSURE SYSTEM (PRE-WAR)
hok.Th booore, clors,                                           R    C    N T        U      IO       P OJE T3 BAR PRESSURE SYSTEM (PER-WAR
8.4. ThgnUn b-d.   ./-b                                            RECONSTRUCTION    PROJECT                                                         HIGH PRESSURE DISTRIBUTION MAIN 50 BAR)
denon--tionsAdondy other d                   pd              SARAJEVO  DISTRIBUTION  SYSTEM   PLAN                                     ,, 0    0 0 REGULATING STATION
nof imply, on the part of The
World Book Groop, coy jidqe-nt
oo the leglsts     y I                                                                                                                              RECONSTRUCTION AREAS IN:
or any endorseoeot or occeptonce  /,y                                                                  .REOSRCIOAESN
ofsoch bo-dories/                                                                                                                                    BOSNIAC DISTRICT
L   J SERB DISTRICT
-    ne 't.=''   aZenica                                              z       \
or)    X  f/Construction groupings based
on district requclating stations
and gas distribution network.
To KoFlict Ilcng                                                           /    ~    /g                    GaeSott
tos<~~ofl    RAVOA                                                       I S
,  Z16  n       a        f   - s ~~                                                                                                                        Z2
te S~~~~~~~~~
Z8 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   55
(   t  z A  <   \    tS                          \ Rv                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INSET A                 CZC,  DLAND/5 SR>v5
C                                                                                                                     2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
\ \ ii \ +X\ \}s \ / ef \ l / 'iWITZ. ;> _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUtTRio HUSGARY / ,
/isst' ,. + ' " -'- } t > t ~~~~~~~BUILT-UP AREAS                                       c/'>tn1   ROMANIA  V
/ F 9s< g #J< {><!trsZ RIVERS ( \ } \1 XITALY>X? 3UL3ARIA SAi~~~~~~~~~~~~cons  ULGOIA 
/~~~ j < * NATIONALCAPITALfINSET) ~~~~~~Zi 2                                                                                 >    TU REECE>yKEg 5(
Son, idetA foro ralnoon nfInetwockbeyondthbisopoict                                                                         I---'         I  T RNTIOONA;LBUiNDRICES _...cJ'9'->A
8.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NVME lP7Z






IBRD 27827
'       ) HUNGARY
SLOVENIA 1    H                                                                                                  BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
<  s.s CROATIA  i s  \                                                            EMERGENCY NATURAL GAS SYSTEM RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
A<'O .\9  R-SN   \_-ZVORNIKTO SARAJEVO T,ANSMISSION FACILITIES
-      PIPELINES           Bfi BLOCKVALVE              *   SELECTED COIES             MAIN ROADS
ITALY            SERBRMONTI                                                      BRANCH CONNECTION         METERING AND          @   NATIONAL CAPITAL           RIVERS
ITALY  0-*,t,,.,,-,;8,  t                                                                                       REGJLATION STAT ON
0    REG;JLATION STAT ON                               -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
BOSNIAC-CROAT FEDERATION
CS. SEMI VT-ABOSNCAND HEREGOVINAC
1U-'                                                                                                                               P ' ' H I Ov 6;t
FEDERAL
S                                     -,--'- 4            \    4                                                    )SERB  REPUBLIC                                    ,    REPUBLICOF
. t  g   )   <-          /                       VIBBenico                                              V 0' o,/2 YUGOSLAVIA
pismP UPrirtwe^yDtzunl  W430>  \        \                                t            tn                O  2   4  6  B  IS  12            tt        v                                 9         t11 (SERBIA/MONTENEGRO)
KILOMETERS
NOVEMBER 1997



IMAGING
Report No.: T      8805  BIN
Typo:    TA



