Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3029 BOS
Project Agreement
(Emergency Natural Gas System Reconstruction Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SARAJEVOGAS SARAJEVO 
Dated January 20, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3029 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 20, 1998 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and SARAJEVOGAS SARAJEVO (SARAJEVOGAS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million 
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,300,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
Sarajevogas agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into among the Borrower, 
the Federation and Sarajevogas, the Borrower will make available to the Federation a 
portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement and the Federation will make available said portion of the proceeds of the 
Credit to Sarajevogas on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS Sarajevogas, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A, B and C of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Sarajevogas declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, public 
utility and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
said Parts A, B and C of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Sarajevogas shall otherwise agree, Sarajevogas shall 
carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a)
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
Parts A, B (except for Parts B.1 (f) and B.2 (f)) and C of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
procurement of the works required for Parts B.1 (f) and B.2 (f) of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Section I.B.1 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement dated 
July 1, 1996 (Credit No. 2905 BOS) for the Emergency Landmines Clearance Project 
between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, except 
that with respect to the first two contracts for works under said Parts B.1 (f) and 
B.2 (f) of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
of the Guidelines pertaining to prior review shall apply.
Section 2.03. Sarajevogas shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Parts A, B and C of the Project.
Section 2.04. Sarajevogas shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Sarajevogas shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Sarajevogas shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Sarajevogas shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by 
Sarajevogas of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement.
Section 2.06. Sarajevogas shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association, the carrying out of Parts A, B and C of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 1998, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to a paragraph 
Page  3
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of said Parts A, B 
and C of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of said Parts A, B 
and C of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by July 30, 1998, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of said Parts A, B and C of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 2.07. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, Sarajevogas shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and 
Sarajevogas, a plan for the future operation of Parts A, B and C of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Sarajevogas on said plan.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Sarajevogas
Section 3.01. Sarajevogas shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Sarajevogas shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
financial, engineering, public utility and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. Sarajevogas shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01 (a) Sarajevogas shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
Sarajevogas shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, who shall be employed by March 31, 
1998, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Page  4
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Sarajevogas thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify 
Sarajevogas of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Sarajevogas:
Sarajevogas
Muhameda ef. Pundze 4
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Sarajevogas or 
by Sarajevogas on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may 
be taken or executed by the Director General, or by such other person or persons as 
he/she shall designate in writing, and he/she shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. O’Sullivan
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SARAJEVOGAS SARAJEVO
By /s/ S. Selmanovic
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions  of  Section 
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 and August 1996 (the Guidelines) 
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 hereto.
2.
Section II of the Guidelines is modified to provide that: (i) the General 
Procurement Notice (GPN) shall also be published in the local press; (ii) individual 
advertisement for specific contracts shall also be published in the local press; (iii) 
the period allowed for submission of bids shall be four (4) weeks; and (iv) bid and 
payment currency shall be limited to one currency widely used in international trade.
3.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance  with paragraph 1 of  this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more per contract but less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 
equivalent, which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number 
of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.  In addition, 
the list of suppliers to be invited shall include, inter alia, the suppliers who 
express interest in response to the General Procurement Notice referred to in 
paragraph 2.7 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines 
with the following modifications:
(i)
general prequalification will be carried out through advertising 
in the local press.  The list of prequalified bidders will be 
updated from time to time as a result of new expression of 
Page  6
interest and information submitted by qualified contractors;
(ii)
prequalified bidders will be allowed a minimum of four (4) weeks 
to submit their bids;
(iii)
bidding documents will follow the formats of the national 
competitive bidding documents agreed with the Association;
(iv)
foreign bidders will be allowed to submit bids;
(v)
bids will be submitted in sealed envelopes, and both mailed and 
hand-carried bids will be accepted;
(vi)
all bids will be opened at the same time in public;
(vii)
contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder; and
(viii)bidders will not be asked, nor allowed to change the substance of 
their bids after the bid closing date, and price negotiations with 
the lowest evaluated bidder will be confined to those cases listed 
in the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines and using standard 
documentation agreed with the Administrator.
4.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature or where direct compatibility with the 
installed equipment is required may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan, as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under Parts B, C.1 and C.2 of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) each contract procured under Parts C.3 and C.5 of 
this Schedule; and (ii) each contract estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent 
and procured under Part C.4 of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Page  7
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
 Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality-and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for staff strengthening, system planning, the sector restructuring 
study and the tariff study under Part C of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $1,100,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Expert services for quality control and other services approved by the 
Association under Part A of the Project which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall 
have been given.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Sarajevogas shall maintain the PIU with staffing and resources acceptable to the 
Association.
2.
Sarajevogas shall coordinate with the PMAU for purposes of monitoring and audit 
of procurement activities in respect of Parts A, B and C of the Project.
3.
(a)
Sarajevogas shall put into effect a billing and collection system 
resulting in the collection from its customers of at least sixty percent (60%), one 
hundred percent (100%), and one hundred forty percent (140%) of the total current cash 
operating expenses of Sarajevogas in calendar years 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively.  
For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "total current cash operating expenses" 
means all expenses related to operations, including administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding depreciation and 
interest and other charges on debt.
Page  8
(b)
Before June 30 in each year, commencing in 1998, Sarajevogas shall, on 
the basis of forecasts prepared by Sarajevogas and satisfactory to the Association, 
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in 
respect of such year and the next following calendar year, and shall furnish to the 
Association the results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that Sarajevogas would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) above for the calendar years covered by such review, 
Sarajevogas shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such 
requirements.
