Documn tof
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8444
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ROJECT
(CREDIT 1158-PAK)
FEBRUARY 28, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
ther offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURMENCY EQUIVALENTS
Appraisal  1980/81):     USS1.00  - PRs91.9
1st year   1982/83):    US$1.00  a PRs12.7
Last year  1987/88):     US$1.00  a  PRs17.6
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS ANO ACRONYMS USED
OCA       -     Development Credit Agreement
FAO/CP    -     Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Programme
GOP       -     Goverfment of Pakistan
HQ        -     Headquarters
IOA       -     International Oevelopment Association
MINFAC    -    Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives
MARC      -     National Agricultural Research Centre
PA        -     Project Agreement
PARC      -     Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
PC-1      -     Planning Coamission Form No. 1
PCR       -     Project Completion Report
SAR       -     Staff Appraisal Report
T/A       -     Technical Assistance
USAID     -     United States Agency for International Development



THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
0Wic a# Obitor-Gmwi
February 28, 1990
MFMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Pakistan
Auricultural Research Prolect (Credit 1158-PAK)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Pakistan Agricultural Research Project (Credit
1158-PAK)", prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office.   No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distbutin and nmy be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official dutis Its contents may not othrwis be disclosed without World Bank authoLutlon.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
nROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1lS8-PAR)
TABLE OF CONTFNTS
Page Ng.
Preface         ........................................................
Evaluatior. Summary ................ ..............  ............                                                       iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I.
1.   Project Identity .                           .......................................                             1
2.        Background  ..............                        ...............................                           1
3.        Project  Objectives  and  Description   .....                                  ................             2
4.        Project  Design  &  Organization   ..........................                                                3
5.        Project  Implementation   .................................                                                 4
6.        Project  Result   ...........                        ..............................                         7
7.        Project  Sustainability   .................................                                                 8
8.        IDA  Performance  and  Lessons  Learned   .....                                 ...............             9
9.        Borrower's  Performance  and  Lessons  Learned   ....                                   .........          10
10.    Project Relationships ...................................                                                       11
11.         Consulting  and  Contracting  Services   .....                                  ...............            11
12.         Project  Documentation  &  Data   ...........................                                              12
PART II.
Project Impact and Institutional Development ....                                         .......          13
IDA  Performance   ...........                        .............................                       14
Conclusion  and  Lessons  Learnt   ..........................                                             15
PART III.
1.        Related  IDA  Credits   ......... ....... ..                            ..................                 17
2.        Project  Timetable                   ...................              ...................                  18
3.        Credit  Disbursements   ...... ...  .........................                                              18
4.        Project  Implementation   ........ .........                                ................               19
A.    Civil  Works   ...........                      .............................                       19
B.    Vehicles   .............                     ..............................                         20
C.    Equipment   ............                      ..............................                        20
D.  Recruitment of Incremental Staff ...................                                                  21
E.    Contractual  Research  Grant  Scheme   .....                                 .............          22
F.    Training   .............                     ..............................                         23
G.    Technical  Assistance   ...............................                                              24
5.        Project  Costs  and  Financing   ............                         ..        ..............             25
A.    Project  Costs   ..........                        ............................                      25
B.    Project  Financing  ..................................                                              26
6.        Project  Results                 ....................               ....................                   26
7.        Status  of  Major  Covenants   ....... ........                               ...............              27
8.        Use  of  Bank  Resources   ..................................                                              29
A.    Staff  Inputs   ..........                       .............................                       29
B.    Missions   .............                     ..............................                         30
ANNEI    Civil Works
MAP             IBRD Map No. 15488R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PAKISTA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT (CREDIT 1158-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Research Project in Pakistan, for which Credit. 1158-PAK in the amount of SDR
19.7 million (US$24.0 million equivalent) was approved on tune 2, 1981. The
Credit was closed on December 31, 19887, one year behind szhedule. It was 86X
disbursed and the last disbursement was on July 26, 1988.
The PCR was jointly prepared by FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
and the Agricultural Operations Division, Country Department I, of the Europe,
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in October, 1987, and is based, amongst
other things, on the Staff Appraisal Repozt; the Credit and Project
Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower; internal Bank memornda; interviews with Bank staff and a field
visit to selected project sites. The PCR was sent to the Borrower for comment
on November 16, 1989 but none was recaived.



- iii -
PAKISTAN
(CULTRTUhL RESEARCI PROJECT (CREDI7 1158-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION   HMR
Introduction
1.        During the late 1970s the Government of Pakistan's (GOP)
agricultural sector development strategy put considerable weight on improving
cultural practices and crop productivity thrvugh strengthening and expanding
agricultural research and extension services. In 1979, to strengthen and
expand agricultural research, GOP requested the World Bank and USAID to
organize an international team to review Pakistan's agricultural research
subsector. The subsequent report identified constraints and made
recommendations to improve operations in the subsector. The Agricultural
Research Project, the subject of this completion report, was an outcome of the
team' s recommendations.
ONbjectives
2.        The project was the first step in a long-term program to strengthen
agricultural research services in Pakistan. It was primarily aimed at
strengthening federal research services, that is, the Pakistan Agricultural
Research Council (PARC) and its main research institute, the National
Agricultural REsearch Center (NARC), so that they could provide strong federal
leadership required to obtain the full cooperation of the provincial research
systems and to permit coordination of the national research effort.
IM2lementation ExDerience
3.        The project was implemented in five years as planned, however,
because loan effectiveness was delayed by nearly one year, the Loan Agreement
had to be extended by one year. Despite a slow start-up, project
implementation went well. The contractual research grant scheme was the most
difficult component to implement.
Result
4.        The project achieved its primary objective of strengthening P.ARC and
NARC's research capabilities although there were some shortfalls in meeting
planned targets for staffing and implementation of the contractual research
grant scheme. It achieved much in institutional and research program
development, and in civil works, including strengthening PARC's autonomy,
overseas training of postgraduace students to PhD and MSc levels, constructing
PARC's headquarters, and strengthening research in plant introduction.
diseases and agronomic practices. The project was less effective in
strengthening PARC's coordinating role in the national research effort.



- iv -
5.        Project sustainability will depend on PARC being able to retain good
staff, and continuing to upgrade staff capabilities through well-defined
training programs. It will also depend heavily on PARC receiving adequate
annual operating funds to allow its scientists to properly uncertake their
research programs.
Findings and Lessons
6.        The Agricultural Research Project was a successful project.  From
IDA's viewpoint lessons learned or relearned include: (a) in designing a
first.phase of a long-term program it is advantageous to focus on essential
and risk-free components as IDA did in this project; (b) training programs
should be fully formulated in the context of an overall manpower development
plan for agricultural research; (c) civil engineers or architects should be
included on the preparation and appraisal missions of projects with a large
civil works component, and major structures brought to an adequate design
stage by appraisal to allow reasonable cost estimates; and (d) when financing
agricultural research projects, the Bank should do all it can to ensure
governments allocate adequate funds to meet recurrent costs following project
completion.  From GOP's viewpoint lessons learned, among others, include
(a) the National Agricultural Research Plan should be concinuously reviewed to
keep it aligned with narional agricultural development objectives;
(b) contract research funds should not be utilized for infrastructure
development; (c) agricultural economics research should continue to be
encouraged; and (d) research priority setting mechanisms should be
strengthened and supported.



- 1 -
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1158-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
1. Project Identitv
Project Name             Agricultural Research Project
Credit No.         :     1158-PAK
RVP Unit           :     Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Country            :     Pakistan
Sector                   Agriculture
Sub-sector         :    Agricultural Support Services
2. Background
2.1     This proiect completion report (PCR) was prepared by an FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program mission that visited Pakistan for two weeks in May 1989.
It is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (3242-PAK) dated 1 April
1981; the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the Project Agreement (PA),
both dated 19 August 1981; the Pakistan Agricultural Research Council's
(PARC, the implementing agency) draft PCR prepared in September, 1988, plus
additional information from PARC; a review of IDA's Supervision reports and
project files; field visits to selected project sites; discussions with PARC
and National Agricultural Research Center (NARC) project staff; and interviews
with World Bank staff associated with the project.
2.2     Following the agricultural sector's poor performance during most of
the 1970s, when annual growth races from 1970 to 1977 averaged about 1.5X, the
Government of Pakistan (GOP) was anxious to increase the sector's total
production and productivity, and ensure self-sufficiency in basic foods.
GOP's Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (1978-83) aimed at a 6% annual
agricultural growth rate. To obtain this improved productivity, besides
emphasizing quick-impact investment programs (irrigation and drainage systems
rehabilitation), keeping crop procurement prices in line with international
prices, and increasing farm input and credit availability, GOP's sector
development strategy put considerable weight on improving cultural practices
and crop productivity through strengthening and expanding agricultural
research and extension services.
2.3     Besides other problems, agricultural research services in Pakistan
have long been constrained by not having a research coordinating body at the
federal level. This occurred mainly because the Pakistan Constitution
delegated responsibility for agriculture to the Provinces, and despite the



Federal Government being responsible for research, high-level agricultural
manpower training, planning and ;;oordination. Many of the restrictions
imposed by provincial jurisdiction and boundaries also acted as constraints to
inter-provincial cooperation in the field of agricultural research.
Consequently, the research structure was fragmented with minimal inter-
provincial cooperation. There were no national review procedures to evaluate
research work, and there was considerable duplication of effort and associated
wastage of resources.
2.4    In 1978 GOP, with support from USAID, constituted PARC as an
autonomous body attached to the Agricultural Research Division of the federal
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives (HINFAC). PARC was placed
under the chairmanship of a scientist with the rank of Secretar7 of the
Federal Government, and would work in close coordination with Provincial
Agricultural Departments, Agricultural Research Institutes, and Agricultural
Universities. PARC's responsibilities broadly include promoting and
coordinating agricultural research in line with Pakistan's economic and
development policies, initiating and conducting basic research, and developing
new research in priority areas being neglected by the Provinces. Meanwhile,
USAID had also promoted the establishment of NARC, the national center for
reseatch in plant and animal production. However, following anti-USA civil
disturbances in the late 1970s, USAID was expected to leave Pakistan around
1980, with much of the agricultural research development work it had assisted
to start still incomplete. For political reasons, however, this pull out did
not occur, and the ongoing USAID-assisted project, Strengthening Agricultural
Research Capability (SARC), was actually extended until 1985. Presently USAID
is assisting PARC through the project called Management of Agricultural
Research and Technology (MART).
2.5    In 1979, to strengthen and expand agricultural research development,
GOP requested that the World Bank and USAID organize an international team to
review the agricultural research sub-sector in the country. The subsequent
report identified continuing problems in organization, management and
execution of agricultural research in Pakistan, and provided a list of
recommendations for further improvements and additions to the research
programs. The Agricultural Research Project, the subject of this completion
report, is an outcome of recommendations made by that mission.
3. Prolect Objectives and Descrigtion
3.1    The project, as appraised in September/October 1980, was to establish
the first step in a long-term program to develop a federally organized system
of agricultural research in Pakistan. It was primarily aimed at strengthening
the federal research capabilities of PARC and NARC -- still not fully
established -- in order that they could provide strong federal leadership and
support services to provincial research institutions. In addition, the
project also aimed at increasing (ie research capabilities of the provincial
agencies as well as the scale of their activities, but their involvement in
the project was relatively limited.
3.2    As appraised, the credit was to finance:



- 3 -
(a) PARC headquarters secretariat building, additional service units,
incremental staff, vehicles and equipment;
(b) completion of NARC station development and expansion of NARC technical
divisions including staff, buildings, vehicles and equipment;
(c) research program development at NARC;
(d) expansion of PARC-administered contractual research grant scheme
carried out by non-PARC research institutions;
(e) PARC administered agricultural economic research units at provincial
research centers;
(f) overseas and local training to K.Sc. and Ph.D. levels and short term
training courses; and
(g) technical assistance in research management techniques and technical
development of a research program, and for conductirg a mid-term
review of project progress.
3.3    The five-year project was estimated to cost US$40 million; against
this, an IDA credit of SDR 19.7 million (US$24.0 million) was negotiated in
March 1981.  The credit agreement was signed in June 1981.   The credit which
became effective in June, 1982, closed on 31 December 1987, after a one-year
extension.
4.  Proiect Design and Organization
4.1    The agricultural research sub-sector review in 1979 (see papa 2.5),
laid a clear conceptual foundation for the project, whic& was shared and
understood by both IDA and the Federal Government. Findings of the review
mission were endorsed by the subsequent Bank-led identification mission, which
defined the project objectives and components of a project proposal for IDA
financing. Project preparation by PARC with FAO/CP assistance closely
followed the outlines set by the identification mission. The level of project
preparation was considered generally satisfactory, meeting the appraisal
requirements.
4.2     The project deliberately limited the involvement of the provircial
research agencies because of their reluctance to participate in the project
(see Comments, para 2, Part III). The main emphasis was therefore placed on
building up the capabilities of PARC and NARC by extending the development
initiated under the USAID research project. The major roles and
responsibilities of PARC and NARC were already defined and also understood by
the existing staff. In addition, prior to project implementation, PARC's



.4-
Ordinance ha'l been revised in a manner which enabled it to function adequately
as an autonomous agency both administratively and financially. "'
4.3     The project's design and organization were relatively simple with few
innovative aspects. In retrospect, a successful arnect of the project design
turned out to be its simplicity, with just one component, that is, contractual
research involving provincio. agencies, being somewhat risky. This approach
appears to have been often debated within and outside the Bank. In fact, the
contractual research component, though relatively small in terms of investment
(19X of total), was carefully designed. Unsatisfactory implementation of this
component was partly due to unforeseeable fact6rs (see para 5.4).
. Proiect DInlem&ntatioq
5.1     Critical variances between planned and actual project implementation
need to be reviewed in relation to: (i) implementation schedule; (ii)
omission of NARC station development; (iii) contractual research; (iv) staff
recruitment; and (v) project costs and IDA credit allocation.
5.2     Imnlementation Schedule.  The project became effective almost one year
after the signing of DCA due to the delay in the approval of the project
documwent (PC-l) by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council.
Although project implementation was completed in five years after a one-year
extension to make up the initial delay, the time actually taken for
preparatory works for the civil works, training, technical assistance,
procurement of equipment, etc., was miuch longer than expected. The above
five-year period does not include the defect liability period for the final
part of the civil works (Animal Sciences block). Actual period of expert
services under the technical assistance was compressed towards the last two
years. About 50 students out of a total of 117 under fellowship training are
still continuing their studies overseas. Procurement which was expected to be
completed in the first two years actually continued untid the project closing
date. Building construction started 21 months late and was completed 24
months late. The main cause of these differences from the original schedule,
was, as often reported by IDA supervision missions, GOP's administrative
procedures coupled with PARC's lack of experience in dealing with IDA
procedures. As PARC gained implementation experience, considerable
imaprovements were noted. Furthermore, the SAR made an over-optimistic
schedule for the civil works pre-contract procedures and this tended to
magnify the difference between the estimated and actual performance (see Annex
1). It appears that inadequate attention was paid to these aspects at the
time of appraisal.
5.3     NARC Station Development.  This sub-component was deleted from the
project because of the unexpected continuation of USAID assistance to PARC.
Since NARC station 'evelopment was initiated under the USAID-assisted SARC
1/   Under the revised ordinance, the Chairman of PARC was given the status
of Additional Secretary in MINFAC, to facilitate direct dealings with
provincial departments and international agencies.



project, tDA agreed to drop this in 1982. The continuation of USAID
assistance was totally unforeseen and this, according to the supervision
reports, caused considerable confusion at NARC over the works which USAID
would finance ard those which IDA would finarce. Additional confusion was
caused by the two agencies' different operational approaches in project
implementation.
5.4    Contractual Research grant Scheme.  For both PARC and IDA this was the
most problematic component to implement. Problems arose partly because of the
continuation of USAID assistance. The scheme originally included three types
of research sub-projects: (i) expansion of existing coordinated research
projects or programs (commodity or production-orientated research originally
funded through USAID); (ii) research sub-projects proposed by individual
research agencies wishing to establish national research programs in selected
areas, and (iii) small ad hoc research sub-projects or programs, aiming at
supporting distinguished provincial scientists proposing to study problems of
national impo::tance. Since the coordinated research programs (No. i above)
were unexpectedly continued under SARC project, only the second and third
programs were left for implementation under the contractual research scheme.
Both of these programs, however, were new to PARC. In retrospect, if the
project had been able to implement the coordinated research programs, all
contractual research funds would have been quickly used, as some PRs 75
million was expended on this program during project implementation as compared
to PRs 54 million allocated for the contractual research component.
5.5    For implementation of the other two types of research suib-projects,
the original criteria eventually had to be substantially relaxed, particularly
that concerning a minimum of expenditures on civil works, and some of the
largest grants were for civil works construction at provincial research
institutions. The problem started with PARC's misconception that only
proposals involving formal institution building (that is, establishing and
strengthening research units) could be accepted under this scheme. It is
difficult to understand how such a misconception grew, because the SAR
description of the scheme is unambiguous, as were the agreed procedures for
selecting sub-projects.
5.6     Special attention was given to the scheme sub-projects by each IDA
supervision mission since it was the principal mechanism by which PARC could
guide and strengthen provincial research agencies. An IDA consultant was
hired in 1984 to examine and improve the situation. The mid-term review also
evaluated the scheme critically. Almost all possible measures, particularly
in improving application processing procedures, were taken. However,
implementation of the scheme has been rather disappointing because: (i)
difficulties faced by provincial research agencies in identifying suitable
sub-projects, other than commodity-oriented research, which could meet the
guideline criteria; (ii) problematic interaction with provincial agencies; and
(iii) insufficient involvemcat of PARC technical scientists in planning,
guiding and evaluating the sub-projects. The SAR identified the risk in
implementing this scheme and that satisfactory implementation would depend on
PARC demonstrating good research leadership and management capability. It
could be concluded that PARC failed to demonstrate these in implementing these



two new types of sub-projects, but did so when implementing the coordinated
research programs un.der SARC project.
5.7    StaffIng.  Recruitment of incremental project staff was problematic
throughout the implementation period for the following reasons: (i) GOP did
not sanction adequate annual budgets for this, always leaving large allocation
gaps (over 50X) between GOP approved amounts (PC-1) and those actually
budgeted, (ii) recruitment itself was difficult because of uncertainty of
tenure of the project-financed positions in PARC, and (iii) qualified
candidates were not available, contrary to expectations at appraisal.
5.8     PARC did not consider that the gap in recruitment reflected adversely
on performance because: (i) much of this gap was filled by staff transferred
from the earlier USAID-assisted project to the non-development (regular)
budget, and (ii) delays in construction of physical facilities at PARC and
NARC. The mid-term review mission commented on this further: "if the 618
incremental staff (SAR estimate) were indeed necessary, then the fact that
only 193 of them have been hired (311 as of end 1985) must surely be affecting
project implementation. Or, if project implementation is not suffering, then
the PRs 73.93 million (cost for 618 staff) was a considerable over-estimate".
This matter, however, has not yet been fully resolved. Actual posts filled at
end of project (FY88) were 342. These have now been reduced to 235 (FY89) due
to GOP's financial difficulties.
5.9 It should be noted that the post of Director General (DG), NARC, fell
vacant in 1986 and was not filled again until early 1989, well after the end
of proJ4ct implementation. A full-time deputy DC of NARC was appointed in
late 1987.
5.10   Project Costs and Allocation of IDA  unXda.  As detailed in Part III,
there were some changes in project costs and fund allocation compared with SAR
and DCA as summarized below:



-7-
Pro1ect Cost              Fund Allocation
IARL/       Actual         DCA        Actual
........-  (US$ million) -------------
Ci'il works                    9.39  (23)2/ 7.35  (26)  7.27  (31)   5.51  (27)
a.Aipment, vehicles, etc.     2.78   (7)   4.07  (15)  1.29   (5)   3.49  (17)
Training, technical assis.    8.38  (21)  10.17  (37)  8.57  (36)  10.04  (48)
Contract research              5.44  (14)   1.86   (7)  3.19  (13)   1.10   (5)
Incremental staff              8.99  (23)   1.91   (7)  2.39  (10)   0.53   (3)
Others                         5.07  (12)   2.34   (8)  1.29   (5)   -
Total                         40.05 (100)  27.70 (100) 24.00 (100)  20.67 (100)
1J Including physical and price contingencies.
2/ Figures in brackets show percentages.
5.11   Noticeable variances between SAR estimates and actual costs include
higher equipment and training costs, and lower incremental staff and contract
research costs. r ese are also reflected in the actual fund allocation. The
increase in actual costs was due to underestimation of the equipment and the
training costs at appraisal, and the decrease was largely due to shortfalls in
meeting targets for the reasons explained in the preceding paragraphs. The
much lower actual total project cost in US dollars as compared to the SAR
estimate is due to the depreciation of the rupee against the dollar (see Part
III). The exchange rate changed from PRs 9.9 (1980/81) to PRs 17.6 (1987/88).
6. Proiect Results
6.1    The project, as the first phase of a long-term research development
program in Pakistan, achieved its primary objective, that is, to strengthen
the research capabilities of PARC and NARC, although there were some
shortfalls in meeting the planned targets, particularly staffing and
implementation of the contract research scheme. It achieved much in both
civil works and institutional development. Actual achievements of the civil
works and other components are detailed in Part III and Annex I.
6.2    The project built and equipped a considerable number of modern offices
(including PARC's headquarters building), laboratories, and staff housing for
PARC and NARC, as well as a number of small facilities at provincial
institutes and agricultural universities. With one or two exceptions, PARC
and NARC now have world class physical facilities. PARC's headquarters
building has done much to strengthen the confidence of PARC's officers and to
generate a feeling of working for a nationally important institution, which
was difficult to achieve in the previous complex of old, rented accommodation.
NARC is now poised to conduct research and experiments of national priority in
the fields of crops, livestock and agricultural machinery that are not
adequately pursued in the provincial research centers. It also can provide



basic support in the form of equipment repair and maintenance, computer data
processing, and germplasm storage and distribution to other research centers
in the provinces.
6.3    Major institutional and staff developments include:  (a) enabling PARC
to be come fully autonomous with its own Board of Governors within MINFAC, and
introducing a satisfactory scheme of service for PARC scientists; (b) the
overseas training of some 97 Ph.D. and 20 M.Sc. post-graduate students; (c)
improving PARC's ability to operate a contract.research scheme for provincial
researchers; and (d) establishing Agricultural Economic. Research Units (AERUs)
at NARC and the provinces which are helping to introduce economics, and a
farming systems perspective, into research planning and programming.
6.4    However, not all of the institutional development objectives were
achieved, nor on time. The preparation of the National Agricultural Research
Plan took much longer than anticipated, and still needs firm decisions on
priority ranking for effective application. Further strengthening of the
planning, programing, monitoring and evaluation of both national and
provincial research is required.
6.5    The impact of the project on research activities cannot be assessed
properly at this early stage because the research facilities have only
recently been completed and the research equipment was procured later than
expected. However, NARC's research programs have expanded considerably since
the inception of the project, and NARC's staff have already obtained some
useZul results. Since several other aid agencies are also assisting research
acti.ities, it is difficult to identify precisely the extent that the project
has contributed to individual research programs.
6.6    with regard to benefits deriving from the project, the SAR, following
general Bank policy, did not undertake an economic analysis, on the grounds
that any attempt to quantify benefits from research to the agricultural sector
can be somewhat speculative, given the uncertainty inherent in research.'"
For the same reason, an ex-post economic evaluation at project completion has
not been undertaken.
7. Proiect Sustainability
7.1    Under the project, PARC and NARC capabilities have been strengthened
to provide federal leadership and support services for provincial research
institutions. While a beginning has been made, the sustainability of this
institutional development will depend wholly on PARC and NARC being able to
retain good staff, as well as their ability to motivate and upgrade staff
capabilities through implementing well-defined training programs. Equally,
the future success of PARC will depend to a great extent on continued high
caliber leadership in agricultural research planning, coordination, evaluation
and financing.
1/      IDA decision memorandum for the project dated 10 November, 1980.



-9-
7.2    As part of a longer-term program to improve the research systems in
Pakistan, IDA has already appraised (late-1988) a Phase II project which aims
primarily at strengthening provincial research services. The project, apart
from support to provincial research, would also further strengthen PARC's
coordinating role ir. national research, and institute mechanisms for
continuous research planning and programming. To maintain the momentum
created by the Phase I project, implementation of the Phase II project must be
initiated as soon as possible. At the time of the PCR mission's visit, PARC
was facing a serious shortage of funds for recurrent costs, and a sense of
uncertainty was becoming evident, particularly among staff recruited under the
project as PARC. had not yet transferred them to its non-development budget.
8. IDA Performance and Lessons Learned
8.1    Overall, the performance of IDA in project identification through
appraisal was satisfactory. IDA provided adequate resources to meet the
objectives and targets for project processing. In retrospect, it might have
been better if the appraisal mission had included a civil engineer to estimate
a more realistic implementation schedule for civil works, particularly
regarding time required for pre-contract procedures.
8.2     IDA's supervisory efforts was reasonably satisfactory and a total of
12 supervision missions were fielded. Good continuity of staff was maintained
between missions, which contributed to the effectiveness of the supervision
effort. In addition, a Bank architect visited the project several times
(independently of the regular supervision missions, and in connection with
supervision of other projects), and his contribution and guidance to PARC's
Civil Engineering Unit was found to be most useful.
8.3     It may be noted that the supervision missions adopted a rather
flexible attitude towards the enforcement of the covenants with respect to the
recruitment of incremental staff and the implementation of a contractual
research scheme. Further, there was a good and continuous local liaison with
the Bank's resident mission which played a positive and helpful role
throughout the implementation period, particularly in assisting PARC with
IDA's procurement procedures (see Annex 1).
8.4    From IDA's point of view, the lessons which can be learned include the
following:
(a) In designing any project as a first phase of a long-term development
program, it is advantageous to focus on only essential and risk-free
components and limit the risk-bearing components to a minimum, as in
fact IDA did in formulating this project (see paras. 4.2 and 4.3).
(b) It is important to adopt a realistic implementation schedule for each
project component, particularly keeping in mind the extent of the
implementing agency's prior experience in dealing with IDA (see para.
5.2), and also the fact that implementation progress will depend on



- 10 -
the managerial capability of other agencies involved in project
implementation (see para. 9.2).
(c) The need to undertake more work during project formulation in
detailing the strategy and requirements for the training component,
particularly in the context of an overall manpower development plan
for agricultural research in Pakistan (see para. 9.4).
(d) When the borrower has a major building program, it is an advantage if
the building design can be developed to at least the sketch-plan stage
before appraisal. This permits the best estimates of cost and the
time required for construction.
(e) For the same reason, it is advisable to have a civil engineer or
architect on the preparation and appraisal mission when, as in this
case, building costs are a large part of the total costs (21X for this
project). Besides, if (iv) above cannot be done (lack of time,
client's spending regulations) and shortcuts must be taken, then it
becomes all the more important to have an experienced civil engineer
or architect on these missions.
(f) The need to ensure allocation of sufficient funds to adequately meet
recurrent costs after project completion. This is particularly so for
a research project, as governments tend to cut research expenditures
first when they face financial difficulties. This is also important
if, as in this case, a follow-up Phase II project is under
consideration (see para..7.2).
9. Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned
9.1    Despite some weaknesses highlighted earlier, PARC's overall
performance in implementing the project has been generally satisfactory.
During the project formulation, PARC performed well with an extremely strong
commitment to the project for the reasons explained in para 2.4. In spite of
GOP's delay in declaring the credit effective, PARC made all needed efforts
necessary to ready the project for implementatiou.
9.2    Throughout the implementation period, the Borrower complied or
substantially complied with all major covenants, with the exception of Sec.
3.01 (b) DCA (provision of adequate funds on grant basis to enable PARC to
fulfill its project obligations and support coordinated and collaborative
research programs), which was partially complied with. All audit reports due
have been submitted to IDA, although some (particularly those for the early
project years, FY83-85) with considerable delay. The reports, prepared by
commercial auditors, gave a clean opinion of the project's status. Almost all
IDA supervision missions rated project performance "2" (moderate problems) and
listed managerial problems first among the types of problems (see Part III, 8
B). Most of the shortfalls in meeting project targets are largely
attributable to such managerial problems. However, it is not clearly reported
whether the problems which arose were entirely due to the inadequacy of PARC's
managerial capability. Bureaucratic delays often mentioned by supervision



- 11 -
missions appear partly due to the management structure of non-PARC agencies '
with which PARC needed to deal during implementation. If this is so, tbe
problem is partly attributable to the effects of other agencies' management
systems on overall project implementation, and PARC is not wholly responsible
for these implementation delays.
9.3    Discussions with Bank resident mission staff who had been involved in
implementation underscored the advantage of a "small team" working with a
small organization of good intellectual caliber. Most of the management
problems were due to bureaucratic procedures of non-PARC agencies. The
performance of the small, flexible PARC implembntation organization compared
most favorably with larger units administering other Bank-assisted projects.
The resident mission staff considered the PARC project administration as one
of the best in Pakistan.
9.4     From PARC's point of view, it can learn the following major lessons
from its experience in implementing the project:
(a) it is important to have continuity of senior management, well
committed to the project to ensure successful implementation,
(b) PARC's experience in the contractual research scheme and establishing
Farm Machinery sub-stations in the provinces, clearly highlights that
PARC should proceed with caution, and not underestimate the
complexities and problems in dealing with provincial Departments of
Agriculture, and
(c) PARC should not underestimate the importance of a well-structured
training program, within the context of a comprehensive manpower
development policy and a detailed assessment of skill requirements and
availability in the country.
10. Eroject RelationshiD
10.1   Project implementation, in spite of its planned tight schedule, has
greatly benefited through the continuity of both IDA supervision mission
members, including an architect who visited the project independently from the
regular supervision missions, and the PARC Chairman and his key staff.
Similarly, the relationship of IDA and PARC with FAO, the sub-contractor for
training and technical assistance (T/A) components, has been reasonably
satisfactory. PARC and IDA relationships with USAID have also been good.
11. Consulting and Contracting Services
11.1   Technical Assistance.  The consultants appointed under the project
generally performed satisfactorily. Those in horticulture, equipment repair
1/      Including the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Commerce, the
Ministry of Public Work, Provincial Governments, FAO (Islamabad and Rome),
World Bank (Islamabad and Washington, D.C.).



- 12 -
and maintenance, and research administration and management were particularly
noted for their valuable contributions to the project. g
11.2   Contractor for T/A and Training.  Performance of the contractor (PAO)
for T/A and training components was mixed. Although the two components were
considered successful, the contractor faced considerable difficulty in the
signing of the contracts due to procedural problems. The supervision reports
indicate that implementation was partly affected by poor liaison between PARC
and FAO. In addition, according to the Mid-Term Review there was some concern
about FAO's over-dependence on the Rome-based computerized roster of potential
consultant candidates, and delays in getting hired consultants into position.
The supervision reports criticized the contractor for placing long-term
trainees (Ph.D and MSc. students) only in the U.S.A. except for a very small
number. However, the requests for placing students in the U.S.A. were made by
PARC, and FAO did not have the right to reject them.
11.3   Contractors for the Civil Works.  PARC Engineering Units, plus the IDA
architect who inspected the civil works during implementation, expressed
general satisfaction over the performance of the civil works contractors.
Annex 1 gives more details concerning this.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1   There were no serious problems in complying with the legal agreements
for project implementation. Some minor modifications were agreed between the
borrower and IDA. The SAR, together with DCA and PA, generally provided an
adequate framework for project implementation.
12.2   The supervlsion reports and other relevant project documents available
at the Bank contained generally sufficient information for preparation of the
PCR. However, some data required to complete Part III tables were neither
readily available nor properly recorded throughout the project cycle. These
include: (i) planned and revised project timetable, (ii) Bank staff inputs
broken down by HQ and Field, and (iii) cost of the staff inputs. Furthermore,
key indicators for the civil works given in the supervision reports were not
adequate to help preparation of Part III as they showed only the cost and rate
of progress. They failed to indicate the progress of construction by physlcal
size and number. A draft PCR prepared by PARC in September 1988 was a useful
reference. Although it followed the old PCR guidelines, data contained in the
PCR were insufficient to prepare Part III.
12.3   Lastly, it may be noted that none of the supervision missions reported
on the status of some minor sub-components such as local training for Ph.D.
and M.Sc., and the extension methodology research sub-project, included in SAR
with detailed cost estimates. The Hid-Term Review mission also failed to
examine these two sub-components; the latter has never been implemented for
inexplicable reasons.



- 13
The Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC) has prepared a
draft project completion report and submitted it to the Bank in October 1988.
Chapter IV (Project Impact and Institutional Development), Chapter V (IDA
Performance), and Chapter VI (Conclusions and Lessons Learnt) are reproduced
here.
n.  PROJECT IMPACT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPNT
..4
4.01      The project was set up to strengthen the agricultural research
system in Pakistan and enhanca the capacity of the PARC to provide not only
leadership to this system but also the essential support services.
4.02      As a result of the Project, PARC has emerged as an effective central
organization responsible for initiating, planning, coordinating, monitoring
and evaluating research in Pakistan. PARC has also been able to establish
considerable credibility with the Agriculture Universities and the Provincial
research sub-systems through its management of the research grants. The
building up of mutual confidence within the national research system, made
possible through this project, is essential to its continued vitality and
performance of its productive role in addressing research problems for a rapid
agricultural development of the country.
4.03      PARC's Headquarters complex with meeting rooms, auditorium,
cafeteria and car-parking facility provided under the Project has been
instrumental in promoting effective interaction amongst the various decision
making echelons and raising the management efficiency of this important
national organization. The construction of the facilicies at the NARC will
help its speedy development as a center of excellence.
4.04      The Project has not only provided to the PARC in particular and the
national agricultural research system in general a corps of highly trained
manpower with diverse specializations but also boosted PARC's capacity to
formulate manpower development programs to meet future needs and execute them
with increasing degree of self-reliance.
4.05      The creation of Agricultural Economics Research Units at NARC and
one in each of the major Provincial Agricultural Research Institutes has been
a unique contribution of this Project. These units have been facilitating the
conception of the Research agenda of the host institutes in their proper
economic prospective, examination of the relevance of the technologies
generated by the research system to the local needs and identification of the
socio-economic constraints to their adoption in the field.
4.06      The Scientific Information Unit has developed into a full-fledged
service and has linked the research scientists with the international
knowledge sources through selective dissemination of information,
bibliographic and document delivery services and regular supply of the
contents of the current journals. The publication of PARC's Annual Reports,
Pakistan Journal of Agriculture Social Sciences (six-monthly) and the



14 -
Progressive Farming magazine (bi-monthly) have added to the prestige of the
PARC amongst the national scientists and the enlightened farmers, as a result
of which there has grown a better appreciation of the role of research in
agricultural development.
4.07      Animal Sciences Research has been put on a firm foundation with the
construction of the Animal Sciences complex at NARC. Earlier the research had
been primarily focussed on animal nutrition under a UNDP-assisted project.
4.08      Particular attention has been paid to the strengthening of the
financial management in line with the needs arising out of the conversion of
PARC from a bureaucratic department to an autonomous organization of the
Federal Government.
4.09      The Project was principally of the institution-building type and has
long-term objectives. It is not pcssible to assess all of its major benefits.
Nevertheless, overall, the Project has assisted PARC in strengthening the
national agricultural research system through improved facilities, better
coordination, and improved management.
4.10      The ultimate success of the Project will, however, depend on whether
PARC can continue, through regular periodical reviews, to keep its management
fully tuned to the developing needs, help the national agricultural research
system in sustaining its focus on priority research problems and persist in
its efforts to promote the development of research leaders. The key
management posts, including that of the Director General, NARC should not also
be allowed to remain vacant.
4.11      The problem presently besetting PARC is the reduced availability of
operational funds. If these are not increased, the purpose of the Project may
well be vitiated.
V.  IDA PERFOR_ANCE
5.01      The Project design has generally proved satisfactory and the overall
cost estimates were not far from those actually incurred. The availability of
a generous contingencies provision has contributed to this creditable
financial performance. In the Staff Appraisal Report, however, a more
ambitious program had been visualized than what was possible considering that
the laboratory construction and equipment procurement and installation were to
take time and manpower had to be first trained.
5.02      The relationship between IDA and GOP was at all time cordial and
cooperative. The flexibility available in the Project made it possible for
the development of this spirit of understanding. Substantial help was
extended by the Bank's Resident Mission. A good working relationship was
created with the local USAID office which is implementing a similar project.
i.e., Management of Agricultural Research and Technology (MART) Project. This
helped to avoid duplication of efforts and pay attention to some management
aspects not covered in the IDA Project. IDA supervision was regularly carried
out which minimized the delays in the implementation of the project. Due
consideration was given by PARC to the recommendations of the Supervision



-15 -
.4issions that visited Pakistan on a number of occasions. Mid-Term Review was
arganized as provided in the Project through a Csur-member team of eminent
experts. The recommendations arising out of their Report were discussed
between ,DA and PARC and suitability adjusted for implementation. Some of the
ideas proposed by the Kid-Term Review Mission are being captured in the
follow-up Agriculture Research Project-II, under negotiation between IDA and
GOP.
VI.  CON=SIONS AND LESSONS LEARNT
Conclusions
6.01      The Project has significantly strengthened the Pakistan Agricultural
Research Council (for its leadership role in agricultural research in the
country) and its principal research institute, mainly, the National
Agricultural Research Center, through institution-building, improved
facilities, additional laboratory equipment, manpower development and
technical assistance in critically important areas. The project's emphasis on
the Federal research set-up was necessary to support the policy of
institutional reforms approved by Government of Pakistan on the
recommendations of Sir Charles Pereira Mission.
6..02     Contract research grants of the project have strengthened the PARC
capability to assist the provinces and develop close association with the
provincial scientists. Most of the funds allocated for contract research have
been utilized for infrastructive building, rather than for actual research.
Establishment of AERUs created a general awareness of relacing research to the
socio-economic perspective. Shortage of trained manpower has, however, been
responsible for as yet a stultified effort in this area. The deficiency was
made up to some extent by the association of CIMMYT experts with AERUs. Their
staffing will, however, be strengthened with the return of trainees sent under
this Project.
6.03      Reporting requirements were met satisfactorily.  However, progress
was slow during che early years due to various reasons but the momentum picked
up during the last three years. All components were fully functional in spite
of some difficulties of local currency allocations in GOP budgets. It'stands
to the credit of PARC that it was able to tone up its project management to a
level that the project could be completed with the realization of most of its
important objectives. This achievement is a matter of great satisfaction
because this is che firs; time a project of this magnitude was implemented bv
the PARC, considering that it is primarily a research organization.
6.04      The implementation of this project has brought to light the
deficient areas, viz, horticulture and soil sciences research, which did not
receive adequate provision in it. The Social Sciences Division at the
headquarters of PARC too needs to be strengthened as also teaching and
research in these sclences in the Universities. The follow-up Project, ARP-
II, will make up these deficiencies and shift emphasis to strengthening of the
Provincial Research Institutes.



- 16 ,
Lesso=s Learnt
6.05      The main lessons learnt were:
(a) National Agricultural Research Plan should be kept under 4ontinuous
review so as to keep it aligned with the national agricuitural
development objectives, as spelled out from time to time by the
Government.
(b) Training should be focussed on d.kficient areas identified as a
result of the needs survey and graater effort made to arrange theses
research in the country. In-house eapability needs to be further
developed for place.ent of trainees in overseas institutes and
monitoring their perLormance.
(c) Contract research sub-projects 4hould be properly worked out to
accommodate che priority needs of the country. The proforma
developed and approved by IDA and PARC for ARP-II for presentation
of contract research schemes should be used and the prospective
Principal Investigators suitably trained in formulating their
proposals for contract research on thi basis of this proforma.
(d) There is need for greater recognition of linkage between training,
technical assistance and contract research.
(e) Contract research funds should not be utilized for infrastructure
development.
(f) A steering committee should be constituted with representation of
all the involved agencies including provinces, to regularly review
implementation of the research projects in future and take timely
appropriate measures for removal of bottlenecks.
(g) Collaborative research with appropriate overseas research institutes
as a means of developing research leaders in country needs to be
emphasized in future research projects.
(h) Agricultural Economics Research should continue to be encouraged and
even expanded if-the biological research has to be fitted to the
local socio-economic environment.
(i) Prioritv setting mechanism needs co be strengthened and supported.
(j) The reports submitted by the expatriate experts should be widely
circulated and made available to the possible beneficiaries. Action
programs should be developed and implemented on such of their
recommendations as are considered feasible.



- 17 -
P,ART III
1.  Re1ated IOA Credits
Year of
Credit Title                    Purnogs                Aaaraxal   Status               9gfgln
1. Punjab Extension         Strengthening agricultural    1976       Closed      I4oderately sUCCeeSfUl in
& Agricultural           extension & adaptive re-                 June 30    meeting its broad goals. it
oev. Project             search in S selected pilot                198S       was followed by a Phase It
(Cr. 813-PAK)            districts of the province.                          project (Cr. 1762-PAK).
through introduction of                             introducing the T&V system
the Training 8 Visit (t&V)                          in the remaining districts
system.                                             of the province.  However.
outcome of the adaptive
research work was well below
SAR expectations.
2. Sind Agricultural        Same as Cr. 813-PAK above.    1979       Closed      Although project implemen-
Extension and                                                     June 30    tation was constrained by
Adaotive Research                                                  1985       civil disturbances. it
Project (Cr. 922-PAK)                                                         managed to implement
administrative changes and
coimence a T&V extensAon
program in the project
districts. The adaptive
research component. however.
did not meet the project
goals. The follow-up
project (Cr. 1762-PAK) is
expanding the T&V system
throughout the province.
3. Baluchistan Agri-        Same as Cr. 813-PAK above.    1984       Ongoing    The project is so far
cultural Extension                                                            proceeding satisfactorily,
a Adaptive Research                                                           and is expected to be
Project (Cr. 1S33-PAK)                                                        completed by June 1990. a
year behind the SAR schedule.
4. Agricultural Exten-      To complete strengthening       1987     Ongoing    The credit became effective
sion IV Project          and reorganization of the                            8 months after the original
Punjab/Sind Phase It    extension services in                                 date. in November 1987.
(Cr. 1762-PAK)           Punjab & Sind by expanding                          While the project is now
the T&V System to the                               making good progress in
remaining districts not                             Punjab. its implementation
covered by the two Phase t                          in Sind is still behind
projects (Cr. 813-PAK and                           schedule.
922-PAK).



- 18 -
2.  Prolect Tmetab
Ltitm                atit EgUlAnof       f&ActuAl Pto
Identification           Jan/Feb 1980          !kb 1980
Preparation              Mar-Aug 1980        Mar-Aug 1990
Appraisal                Sep/Oct 1980        Sep/Oct 1980
Negotiatmons               Feb 1981            Mar 1981
Board Approval           Apr 7, 1981          Jun 2, 1981
Credit Signing             Jun 1981          Aug 19, 1981
Credit Effectiveness    Nov 19, 1981 ,       Jun 14, 1982
Project Completion       Jun 30, 1986        Dec 31, 1987
Credit Closing           Dec 31, 1986        Dec 31, 1987
Major issues raised during preparation/appraisal included:
tl) the ability of PARC to accept an expanded role in developing
agricultural research (identification); (ii) GOP's commitment to
providing annual operating costs for the proposed project and its
continuation after project completion (preparation); and (iii)
resistance of the provincial Departments of Agriculture to
establishing cooperative working relations with PARC and their
reluctance to  participate in  a project  addressing agricultural
research on  a national basis.   Issue  (ii), adequate  recurrent
cost funding by GOP, still eemains to be adequately addressed.
To accommodate final disbursements the credit accounts were
kept open nine months beyond the closing date.
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actu^aLDisburs gnt%
(US$ million)
E8   FY83  Fy84  EYJ   FY86  FY87  E8   FYX2
Appraisal Estimate  1.8   8.4  15.4  20.1  24.0
Actual                -    0.0   2.0   4.7   7.2  16.2  20.6  20.7
Actual as % of
Estimate              -     -   13.0  23.4  30.0  67.5  85.8  86.2
Date of Final Disbursements July 26, 1988



- 19 -
4. Prolect ImplementAtkon
A. QivilWorks
Appraisal   Actually   Actual as .
Entimat                 gIEt__t   of Manned
(sq.ft.)    (sq.ft.)
1.  PARC Secretariat HO          52,400      59,000         113
2.  NARC Main Laboratory         30,132      30,800         102
3.  NARC Agric. Machinery
Institute                    22,250     24,190         109
4.  NARC Animal Sciences
Buildings                    42,850      71,225        166
5.  NARC Hostel                   3,600       5,910         164
6.  Staff Housing                73,628      84,297         114
(No. of Houses)               (89)        (83)
Total                    224,860    275,422         122
Commants'
In addition to the construction of buildings, the civil
works component as appraised included NARC station development
consisting of construction of 7.8 km of irrigation canals and 8.0
km of roads. These works were deleted from the project since
USAID financing became available for constructing them (see Part
I, pare 5.3).
On April 25, 1984, IDA agreed to additional civil works
totalling 14,679 sq.ft. Both appraisal and actual figures shown
above reflect this 1984 addition.



- 20 -
. Vehiclea
Appraisal             Actual as %
Estimt&_   Actual   gf Aoagailsa
(No.)      (No.)
1.  Car                               a          1          12.5
2.  4-Wheel Drive                     4         10         250.0
3.  Pick-up                          30          7          23.3
4.  Mini 4x4                          7.         -           -
5. Bus                                -          4
Total                        49          22         44.9
Qgmmina
PARC decided to procure fewer vehicles than had been
estimated at appraisal because a considerable number of vehicles
became available for project use from other donor agencies,
including USAID and CIDA.
C.  ERuimEnt
Equipment including field/laboratory equipment and building
services equipment procured under the project amounts to some 260
items,  mainly for NARC  research divisions.   Equipment actually
procured was in general consistent with the original lists
prepared at appraisal. As with any project, some additions and
deletions had to be made in the course of project implementation.
A complete list of the equipment procured is in the Project File.



- 21 -
D.  Reruilment of Incremental Staff
Appraisal    Actual at    Actual as X
Senior Staff
Grade 20-21                       1             1            100
Grade 19                         13             9             69
Grade 18                         83            43             52
Grade 17                        106            59             56
Grade 16                         1.            20            111
Subtotal                     221           132             60
Supnort Staff
Grade 14-15                       7             9            129
Grade 13                          6             2             33
Grade 11-12                      86            63             73
Grade 9-10                        -             5 S
Grade 8                          61            15             25
Grade 7                        '33             12             36
Grade 3-6                        72            S0             69
Grade 1                         132            54             41
Subtotal                     397          210              53
Total                       618           342              55
L./ See Part I, paras 5.7-5.9 for explanation- why the project
did not meet appraisal targets for hiring incremental staff.



- 22 -
E.           a  Research Grant Scheme-UCRG9)
sheMa mJJ"                             Institution
(a)  PARC Onooino Research SuboroJects Transferred to CR86
1. Research on Silviculture and
Cultivation of Ephedra              Forest Dept.   Baluchistan
2. Integrated Control of Insect         Agr. Res. In.
Pests of Non-Traditional Oilseeds  (ARI), Tandojam    Sind
3. Acarological Research Lab.         . Agr. Univ.,
Faisalabad (AUF) Punjab
4. Survey of Wild Medicinal Plants    Sind Agr. Univ.
(SAU)              Sind
5. Bionomics and Integrated Control
of Potential Rice Insect Pests      AUF                Punjab
6. Anthelmintic Evaluation of
Indigenous Plants                   AUF                Punjab
(b)  SubproCncts lnitiated Under CRGS
1. Establishment of Dept. of Animal   SAU                   Sind
Reproduction
2. Strengthening of Dept. of
Zoology and Fisheries               AUF                Punjab
3. Study of Pubertal Development
of Buffalo Bull                     Q-e-A Univ.        PunJab
4. Strengthening of Test and
Measuring Capability of AMRI        AMRI, Multan       Punjab
5. Establishment of Tropical Fruit
Station                             Hort.R-s.Inst.      Sind
6. National Fruit fPies Research
Laboratory                          ARI, Tarnab         NWFP
7. Soil Borne Diseases Lab.             Karachi Univ.       Sind
8. Operational Range Management
Research                            Forestry Dept.      Sind
9. Extension Methodology                Peshawar Univ.      NWFP
10. Marketing System of Major Fruits
in Punjab                           AUF                Punjab
11. Fruit and Vegetable Marketing
Channels in Sind                    SAU                 Sind
12. Apple Marketing in Baluchistan       8'tan Univ.    Baluchistan
13. Professional Competence of Agr.
Extension Agents in Sind            SAU                 Sind
14. Productivity of Coconut Farms
in Coastal Areas                    SAU                 Sind
15. Crop Forecasting Procedures          ARI, Tarnab         NWFP
16. Integrated Farm Model for
Scrub Forests                       Forestry Dept.    Punjab



- 23 -
(;qmmontsi
The project did not fund any existing national coordinated
research programs, one of the subproject types envisaged under
the contract research schemes as USAID continued funding these
programs up to 1985, and PARC then transferred them to its non-
development budget.
F. Training
(a) Overseas
Appraisal Estimate            Actual *
PhD.. M.Sc. Short-term  Ph.D. Mli^ Short-term
(No. of fellows)         (No. of fellows)
Plant Sciences       19    31       13        32      4      20
Animal Sciences      18    16        8        17      7       1
Plant Introduction   -      -        2         -      -       1
Oilseeds              6     8       12         -      -       -
Cereal Diseases       8     6        -         -      -       -
Agr. Engineering      3     2        5.5       4      3       -
Agr. Economics        6     7        2        i1      -       -
Lab. Equipment
Maintenance           -     -        1.5       -      -       -
Other **              -     -        -        33      -      27
Total             60    70      44         97    14       49
*  FAO-Fellowships Program, Updated Project File (UTF/PAK/073)9
April 1989.
** Including irrigation, land use, watershed/range management,
sericulture, soils, forestry, bio-technologyp fisheries,
farming systems, meteorology, statist:cs, genetoxicology.
(b) Local
Aporaisal Estimate           Actual
Ph.D.        M.Sc.      Ph.D.        M-I
Plant Sciences         2             6         -
Oilseeds               3             6         -
Agr. Economics         -             2         -
Other                                -         -            4
Total               5            14                      4



- 24 -
a. TechncalAs st1same
... .mopraisal Estto te...        ......tual  .......
Disciple                 LG.         Short-tet    Total    Logta    Short-term    Total
*..... ... (am-er) . ......... ... . . . .. . (_n-eears) .
Plant Sciences               -          4.5        4.5        3.0          3.1       6.1
Animal Sciences              -           0.5       O.S         -            -         -
Plant Introduction           -           0.3       0.3         _           0.3       0.3
Cerea  Diseases              -           O.S       O.S         -           0.3       0.3
Extension Nethodology       2.0           -        2.0        1.1           -        1.1
Agicultural Engineering     2.0          0.3       2.3        2.0          0.3       2.3
Agricultural Econmics       2.0          1.0       3.0        3.4           -        3.4
Research Information         -           0.8       0.8        1.5          0.4       1.9
Lab. Equip. Maintensnc       -           0.5       O.S         -           0.8       0.8
Administration              2.0           -        2.0        3.0           -        3.0
Finacial M_nagmnt            -           4.0       4.0         -            -         -
Others I/                                 -                    -           1.8       1.8
Total                  8.0         12.4      20.4       14.0          7.0      21.0
3/ Including watershed sanagent. sericulture. irrigation. bee keeping, soil conservation.
etc.



- 25 -
5.  PrOject Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
. Apwraisal Estimate 1/.            Actual.....
(PRs Million) (US$million) (PRs millioRTTIUSS milllon)2/
Civil works             92.81        9.39         109.49        7.35
Vehicles                 3.96        0.40           4.81        0.31
Field equipment         10.97        1.12       )            )
Lab. equipm              6.68        0.67       ) 61.81      ) 3.76
Other equipment          5.85        0.59       )            )
Incremental staff       89.03        8.99          29.70        1.91
Incremental operating    49.46       4.99          36.31        2.26
Contract res. grants    53.91        5.44          30.60        1.86
Training                57.91        5.83         132.17        8.32
Technical assistance    25.73        2.55          29.16        1.85
Mid-term review          0.83        0.08           1.29        0.08
Total             396.50       40.05         435.34       27.70
i/  As per SAR, including physical contingencies (15% on civil
works, 10% on vehicles and equipment, 5% on operating costs)
and price contingencies (1981-9%, 1982-8%-  198z-1985-7%).
2/  Actual amounts in US dollars obtained by converting rupee
amounts at annual exchange rates as published by the IMF.
Comment- 5
While  actual project cost  in rupees  was about  10% higher
than estimated at appraisal, cost in US dollars was substantially
lower reflecting the depreciation of the rupee against the dollar
during the implementation period -- from Rs 9.9 per dollar in the
appraisal year to Rs 17.6 in the last project year. As a result,
despite two amendments of the disbursement schedule in May 1986
and May 1987,  only SDR 17.8  million were disbursed by  the time
disbursements were completed in July 1988, and the remaining SDR
2.1 million were cancelled.



- 26 -
S.  Proiect-Financing
Planned             Actual
SgQrLgo                mUi2I I4j    X%  USffi Million   %
IDA                        24.00      60      20.67       75
- Civil Works             ( 7.27)    (18)    ( 5.51)    (20)
- Equipments Vehicles    ( 1.29)    ( 3)    ( 3.49)    (13)
- Training, T/A           ( 8.57)    (22)    (10.04)    (36)
- Contr. Res. Grants      ( 3.19)    ( 8)    ( 1.10)    t 4)
- Incremental Staff       ( 2.39)    C6)    ( 0.53)    ( 2)
- Unallocated             ( 1.29)    ( 3)    ( -  )    ( -)
Domestic                   16.05      40        7.03 I/   25
Total                   40.05     100      27.70 I/  100
I/ Actual amounts in US dollars obtained by converting rupee
amounts at annual exchange rates as published by the IMF.
6.   rpgS
A. Direct Benefits
No benefits were quantified in the SAR, as is the practice
for agricultural research projects.
B. Economic Impact
No economic evaluation was undertaken in the SAR, as is the
practice for agricultural research projects.
C.  Financial Imoact
As is the practice for agricultural research projects, no
financial  analysis  was  undertaken  or  targets   were  set  at
appraisal.
D. Studies
Mid-TerM Review
Purpose:  To review project progress, make recommendations for
changes in subproject designs and identify possible
components to be included in any second phase project.
Status.   The review was undertaken by a team of international
consultants in November 1985. Their report was
published in February 1986.



- 27 -
Impacti   Recommendations by the review team were generally well
accepted by both GOP and IDA. The project was extended
by one year following the recommendations* PARC,
though critical, took constructive action to improve
project implementation. Recommendations for follow-
up project work were also taken into account in
formulating a Phase II project.
7. Status of Major Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant           Subiect          Comnliance        Status
A.  DvLpoMent Credit Agreement
3.01 (a)   GOP to furnish IDA by  Throughout im-    Complied
March 1 of each year   plementation        with
estimate of project
funds for next FY
3.01 (b)   GOP to provide ade-    Throughout im-    Not fully
quate funds on grant   plementation        complied
basis to enable PARC                       with
to fulfill its project
obligations and sup-
port coordinated and
collaborative re-
search programs
3.02 (a)   GOP to employ consul-  As and when         Complied
tants satisfactory      needed             with
to IDA
3.03       GOP to implement        Dec. 31, 1981      Complied
training selection                         with
procedures satisfac-
tory to IDA
3.04       GOP to employ DG,       Dec. 31, 1981      Substantial-
NARC, with qualifica-                      ly complied
tions satisfactory to                      with L/
IDA, and directors
for 6 NARC divisions
3.05       GOP to staff PARC and                      Substantial-
NARC with adequate                         ly complied
numbers of qualified                       with a/
staff according to a
timetable satisfac-
tory to IDA



- 28 -
B.  Proiecg t Onrm. nt
2.01 (b)   PARC to furnish each   Throughout im-    Complied
year by March 1 for    plementation         with
IDA review planned
expenditures and bud-
get for the next FY
2.02 (a)   PARC to employ con-    As and when           Complied
sultants satisfac-      needed              with
tory to IDA
2.07       PARC to appoint ad-    Dec. 31, 1981         Complied
ditional member to                          with
its Executive Board
to be responsible
for Natural Re-
sources
2.08       PARC to send pro-        June 30, 1982       Complied
posed National Re-                          with
search Plan to IDA
for comments
2.09       PAR to send for IDA    July 3, 983         Complied
review TOR and compo-                       with
sition of mid-term
review team
2.10       PARC to establish        Dec. 31, 982      Complied
and implement a new                         with
accounting system
2.1i       PARC to submit for       As and when        Complied
IDA review first 5                         with
contractual research
subprojects, and
thereafter all such
subprojects costing
over Rs 10 M each
4.02       PARC to submit to        Throughout im-    Complied
IDA its audited         plementation       with
accounts within 6
months of FY end
1/ The DG position fell vacant in 1986 and was not filled again
until well after credit closure.
2/ The SAR targets were not achieved (see Part 1, paras 5.7 and
5.8).



- 29 -
8.   Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of                  Planned             Revised              Final
Pr-oiectcle            Hq  fleld            H      Field        HQ     fleld
~~~~~(a-es). . .. ...... ......... mnw
Preappraisal             - n.a.-             - n.a. -         35.9      27.4
Appraisal                - n.a. -             - n.a. -        29.1      13.5
Negotiations             - n.a. -             - n.a. -         6.4       0.0
Supervision              - n.a. -             - n.a. -       102.9      34.0
Others                   - n.a. -             - n.a. -          3.3     13.8
Total                                                     177.6      88.7
Source: IBRO - Time Recording System.



- 30 -
B. missions j/
Stan of                b      No. of   O&n  in  Specialization   Peomnce  tnxe. of
ProJect Cycle      Year       Per5o3Ms   Field    Reprsented 2/  Situs 3/   Probirs 4/
Identification    Feb. 80        5       24      AR, A, E. L. F       _      
PreprationI       Apri  84       1        6             E             - 
Preparathon 2   J Se0            1       29           .E              -
Appraisal        Sept/act. so   5         25     A. LN. FA. L. E      -
Supervision I     Oct. 81        1        4             A              1
Supevis4on 2      feb. 82        1        3             A             2          P.3 
Supervision 3     July 2         2        9           A. PO           2            N
Supervision 4     Feb. 83        1        6             A             2            N
Supervision S     Oct. 83        1        12            A             2            N
Supervisin 6  '  July 64         2         3          A. A            2            N
Supervision       Oct. 84        3        9         A, Af, M          2            N
SupervisionaS     April 8S       2        12          AE. A           2          0. F
Supervision 9     April aS       3        14        A. AE. A          2            N
Sapervision 10    Nov. 86        3        11        A. AE. A          2            N
Supevision 11    April 87        2        18          A. A            2            N
Supervision 12    Oct. 87        3        9         Af. A. A          2            -
Conpletlon.       MY g8          2        14          A, CE           -            -
D/ bring the project iileentation period. there was, acowding to PARC. at least three
visits of a Bank architect to the project in connection with the supervision of oteer
proJects. These inputs wmre not properly recorded in the project file.
V Specialization: AR a Agriculturist (Researh); A - Agriculturist (general);
E a Econoist; L a Livestock Specialist; F a Fishery Specialist;
LN a Loan Officer; fA - Financial Analyst; PO - Project Officer;
Af a Agricultural Economist; CE - Civil Engineer.
S/ Perforunce rating: 1 a Problem-free or minor probles; 2 a Moderate problems;
3 = Oeteriorating.
y Types of problms: P a Political; N a Nanagerial; f a Finncuial.
/ VFO/CP mission .



- 31 -
C. Costs
No data available on cost of staff inputs broken down by each stage of the
project cycle.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr.1158-PAK)
CIVIL WORKS
Table of Contents
Paae
A.      Background                                                        1
B.      Comparison Between Estimated and Actual Performance               1
-   Physical Achievement                                         1
-   Implementation                                               2
-   Costs                                                        2
C.      Performance of Participants                                       3
-   Architect and Consulting Engineers                           3
-   Contractors                                                  3
-   PARC                                                         3
-   IDA                                                          4
0.      Quality of Finish and Workmanship                                 5
E.      Operation and Maintenance                                        5
F.      Conclusion - Lessons Learned                                     5
FIGURES
1.      Civil Works Implementation Programme - Comparison of
Estimate Against Actual
2.      Organization Chart - Directorate of Works and Services
TABLES
1.      Comparison of SAR and "as built" Building Areas
2.      Composition of NARC Main Laboratory Built Areas
3.      Summary of Staff Housing
4.      Floor Surface Areas of Buildings Constructed
5.      Civil Works Costs



ANNEXl       1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1158-PAK)tF
CIVIL WORKS
A. Qackground
1.       The preparation of this project was hurried because of the prospect
of an imimnent end to USAIO finance to establish a Federal research agency,
PARC. <1> Project preparation concentrated on the need for scientists,
equipment, overseas training for higher degrees and similar considerations;
the need for buildings to house a new agency was given scant attention even
though building works comprised 25% of estimated costs. At appraisal,
buildings were defined solely as a series of square footages for various
functions. No sketch plans existed.
2.       The Implementation schedule  proposed  at  appraisal  assumed  Bank
procurement procedures would be achieved in minimum time. The effect of the
GOP's procedures was not taken into account.
3.       The essential process of interaction between client  and  architect
to define the physical character and the services requirements of the
buildings was not done before credit effectiveness. This, therefore, had to
be carried over to the Implementation stage and delayed the start of site
construction by more than one year.
4.       The high intellectual level and the small  number  of  participants
involved made for an effective system of small-team working. This overcame
the procedural difficulties In a Afirst-time" exercise for both sides and
the outcome was entirely satisfactory.
B. ComParison Between Estimated and Actual Performance
Physical Achievement
5.       The  building  areas remained much as planned apart from the Animal
Sciences block which was underestimated at appraisal and the relatively
minor  NARC  (National  Agricultural  Research  Centre)  hostel.          These
buildings were increased in area by 64% and 66X, respectively. The Animal
Scienc's block, which represents about one-quarter.of the total project
building area, was increased after review and negotiation with the Bank in
1983/84. The areas of all other buildings increased by about 102.
- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - -
<1'      PARC - Pakistan Agricultural Research Council. Previously the
provincial research agencies had lacked federal coordination.



AtNtA 1      2
- 35 -
6.       Table 1 gives the detail comparison of areas estimated at appraisal
and as actually built. The summary table 4 gives an overall view. The
increase in total area of actual over estimated Is 23%. If we neglect the
Animal Sciences block the increase is 13%, an acceptable value.
Implementation
7.       Physical  construction  started 21 months later and ended 24 months
later than was estimated at appraisal. So the original construction time was
broadly kept, a creditable performance, but -the project was delayed about two years.
8.       The physical start of construction was slow because:
- credit effectiveness (June 1982) lagged 10 months behind signing
until  GOP   was able to fulfill its         obligations  under   the
agreement;
- from engaging the architect to start of construction on-site took
longer than foreseen: 24 months against 12 (see para 23);
- in addition to IDA procedures those of GOP had to be taken into ac-
count, not least to ensure counterpart budget allocations. No sepa-
rate allowance was made for this in the appraisal estimate.
9.       Figure   1   shows  the  actual  construction  performance  against
estimated from which the two years  delay is apparent.
10.      In  the  estimated  programme  the  bunching  of  the  pre-contract
procedures was optimistic.
Costs
11.      In  rupee  terms  the  costs  of  individual  buildings  show  good
correspondence with the original estimate except for two cases, the head-
quarters building and the Animal Sciences block. The headquarters building
was 70% over its estimate due to the cost of land (estimated at appraisal to
be zero) and to the provision of building services such as air conditioning,
elevators and a telephone exchange, none of which had been allowed for in
the appraisal estimate. The Animal Sciences buildings were increased in area
by 66% after further negotiations permitted PARC to convince the Bank that
the appraisal estimate had been unreasonably low. This had the effect of
more than doubling the estimated cost. Unit costs compare favourably with
other similar buildings in Islamabad.
12.      Including these major revisions the actual total cost in rupees for
all construction is 30% over the estimate. The rupee inflation was 24% more
than foreseen by the appraisal price contingehcy (the project period
increased from five to seven years) so that the outcome is reasonable.
13.      If  one converts to dollar terms (difficult to do precisely because
of the continuously changing rate, 9.9 - 17.6 PRs/US$ over the period), the
result is that final expenditure is about 85% of the original estimate. This
is a consequence of the dollar's strength in 1984-85-86, the years of peak
expenditure on the project.



- 36-                      ANNEX 1       3
C. Performance of ParticiDants
Architect and Consulting Engineers
14.      The architect was a Karachi-based local partnership which  included
civil engineering and operates an Islamabad office with a resident partner.
For the earlier USAID-funded work they had been associated with an American
architect but were engaged on their own for the Bank-financed project. The
services consultant was also Karachi-based. A master plan of the conception
of the NARC development existed and the architect harmonised his designs
with those of the existing work to preserve the unity of the group.
15.      The performance of this team was satisfactory. They cooperated well
with the client and produced designs which led to good quality buildings.
They responded readily to suggestions from the Bank's architect.
16.      The consultants' remuneration did not provide for site  supervision
which was done by PARC's civil engineering unit. They nevertheless made
frequent site visits and attended site progress meetings.
Contractors
17.      The  tour main building contractors in general performed well. Only
one, on staff housing, had difficulty in maintaining the desired standard of
workmanship and he had no repeat contract. The contractor who constructed
the  Agricultural  Machinery  Institute   buildings   produced   very   good
workmanship, particularly on the concrete finishes.
18.      Sub-contractors,  in  particular  'those  for the building services,
cooperated well and performed satisfactorily.
19.      The PARC civil engineering unit did  not  have  much  contact  with
suppliers  except   for  the telephone exchange and air conditioning for the
headquarters building. They were, of course, advised by the architect and
services consultant.
20.      In  those cases, the suppliers' performance was satisfactory. There
are no recorded delays to the programe due to suppliers' failure.
PARC
21.      PARC's  performance  as executing agency for the building works has
been good. The work was carried out with only a three-month overrun of the
38 months foreseen at appraisal. Supervision was effective with a full-time
executive engineer of the civil engineering unit on each site.
22.      The delay of almost two years, is attributable to the delay in  the
credits becoming effective, to the time required to develop designs and to
clear them through the client, the Bank and GOP and to the subsequent
competitive tendering process. PARC had no control over the first two of
these and could do little to shorten the latter.



_ 37 _                         ANNEX 1       4
23.      PARC  was  new  to  the  Bank's  procurement  procedures. Those for
construction work call for competitive bidding and this in turn implies a
pre-qualification stage, Bank approval of tender documents, the tendering
process itself, Bank approval of the successful bidder and, finally, award
of the contract. Not only does each of these stages require a fixed time but
certain steps, such as pre-qualification of tenderers, call for public
advertisement for a statutory period ahead of the event. For a contract such
as the headquarters building under good conditions and without any hitches
it would be difficult to compress this process into less than a year.
24.      PARC used their first building contract, that for the headquarters,
to learn. With the help of the Resident Mission they learned quickly and
subsequent contracts were processed in the minimum time.
IDA
25.      During project execution the Bank  performed  well.  Its  architect
made three visits at key times in the programme:
- July  1983:   Approval of headquarters building drawings and tender
documents (this was the first contract placed);
- May 1984: Launch of site works - definition of overall building
programme;
- April 1985: Supervision of workmanship and progress.
He made constructive, practical suggestions for improvements, all of which
were adopted.
26.      The  Bank's  resident  mission  played  a positive and helpful role
particularly in assisting a new team with IDA's procurement procedures.
There was a good and continuous local liaison.
27.      Where  the Bank's performance may be criticized was at the stage of
preparation and appraisal, although here it may well have been the result of
events as they unfolded:.
- there was no civil engineer or architect on the preparation or
appraisal missions;
- perhaps as a result of this there was an over-optimistic bunching
of the pre-contract procedures in the appraisal implementation
schedule.
- important  building  services  -   air   conditioning,   elevators,
telephone  exchange  -  appear  not  be  included  in the appraisal
estimate.
28.      In  retrospect,  the  appraisal  mission itself did extraordinarily
well to estimate the building costs so accurately without the advantage of a
professional in its ranks.



- 38 -                         ANNEX I      5
0. Quality of Finish and Workmanship
29.      The  quality  of the specification of finishes is high. Liberal use
is made of local marble tile finishes in the facade, halls, staircases and
floors of the headquarters building. Laboratory buildings and dwelling
houses are all finished in facing brick externally with granolithic floors
in work areas.
30.      Each  main  building  plus  a  representative sample of housing was
inspected. The quality of workmanship was universally acceptable and in
several cases could fairly be described as.good.
E. Operation and Maintenance
31.      The   Civil   Engineering   Unit   of  PARC  which  has  supervised
construction was strengthened under the project. Its present organization is
shown on the chart in Figure 2. This unit will continue to supervise new
construction in Islamabad and in the provi,ices. However, future construction
is on a smaller scale than in the completed project and the work of the unit
is changing to building maintenance.
32.      The Chairman of PARC is very alive to the importance of good house-
keeping and has transmitted this enthusiasm to all his staff. The result is
a clean and tidy building. Job specifications have been prepared by the
Director of the Civil Engineering Unit for his engineers concerned with
maintenance. This covers the whole range of operations from daily cleaning
and periodic servicing to building repairs and the construction/modification
of minor works. A full range of mechanical cleaning equipment such as floor
polishers has been obtained and the approach to maintenance augurs well for
the future of the buildings
f. Conclusion - Lessons Learned
33.      The building component of this project was successful  in  that  it
achieved the result envisaged at appraisal. Its only lapse was that it did
it with a delay of two years. The main lesson which stems from this is that
a building project requires a finite length of time to develop an acceptable
design and to follow through the chain of actions required by the
competitive bidding process to the point of award of tender. This process
cannot be avoided. So what is not done before Agreement signature must be
done after.
34.      This  lesson  and those which follow from it are already well known
in Washington but are probably worth repeating.
i) It is preferable to have important buildings at least at sketch
plan stage by appraisal. This provides a good basis for estimates
of cost and time to construct. Given the urgency to get to credit
effectiveness and the GOP rule that the architect cannot be engaged
before the credit agreement is signed, it was probably considered
impossible in this case. One wonders if a project preparation facil-
ity (PPF) could have been usefully employed here.



-39-                         ANNEX 1       6
ii) For the same reasons it is advisable to have a civil engineer or
architect on the preparation and appraisal missions.
iii) If (1) above cannot be done and shortcuts have, therefore, to be
taken then it is most important to have a very experienced civil
engineer or architect on the appraisal mission.
35.      The lesson of the success part of the story is that an  intelligent
client using a small team working in close and continuous liaison with the
Bank, particularly at the resident mission level, can overcome teething
troubles and produce a satisfactory result.



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1158-PAK)
CiviL Works Implementation Programme - Comparison of Estimate Against Actual
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __1  2  3     4           5
Otianal Pro jectod        -__ __ _  Ealenso_
FBnancial yau  lost        1tt82        ua83         1984        ltes         le8t stso                tta8
Ouarler      4I2 3  4 I '2'                   4      2    1 .3J231J2 4  43.424 34  .. 142.1.31 4_ 141 2 3 4  1 1 2 34144
PARCJNARC CiVIL WORKS
Selection of consultants            I 4 
Appointment of consultants          4            B    4  
Schematic design                                        _
Design development                  I          *B        :
Construction documents                                                 414
Bid documents                      c,          e44                       4
.Bidding                             B           B   +
Contract award                      ,                4j  '
Construction (PARC)                             4         InrnasaIg uunIiulhIBwilI ?            . 
Defects Liabitity (PARC)            B
Construction (NARC)
Defects LiabiLity (NARC)                        B
Notes: (1) Same atrchitects and consultants as initiated                                                                                1!
# gttttmtttutstttz  S A R. jtansttstnuanian SChedule                    a 
the works under USAID finance were retained.                      S
4     .  ...   Aclual ImOnaflofi



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1158-PAK)
Organization Chart - Directorate of works and Services
DIRECTOR OF WORKS
SUPPORT STAFF
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PARC HO BUILDING                                                            NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
RESEARCH CENTRE   *
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER (1)                                                           EXECUTIVE ENGINEER (1)
ASSISTANt EXECUTIVE                            .
ASSISTANT EXECUTIVE                       ENGINEER  2)                           ASSISTANT EXECUTIVE                 ASSISTANT EXECUTIVE
ENGINEER (1)                     KARACHI - QUETTA                           ENGINEER, CIVIL t1)               ENGINEER, ELECTRICAL (I)
SUB ENGINEE                   r      SUB ENGINEER                                SUB ENGINEER _                                                    _. 2
KARACHI  (1)                          PARC (1)                                                                    M I  MAINTENANCE STAFF



- 42 -
AMU I
Table I
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 11S-PAK)
Comparison of SAR and 'as built" Buildina Areas
Actual as I
Item                     Aaraisal Estimate               Actual                 of olanned
No.    Area (sq.ft)   .  No.   Area (sq.ft)
1. PARC Administration
- Secretariat Building        1      50.000              1)   59.000               113
- Garages                     1       2.400               )
- House, Grade 1              2       6.000             2      6,440               107
- House. Grade It             2       S.000             2       61878              116
- HIose. Grade li            2       1.000             2      4417                149
Total            14,00                   16.195               120
2. PARC Lab. Equip. Naint.Unit
- Offices                     I         ,ao  )                Conbined In
- Laboratories (A.C.)         I         O0  )                 main UARC Lab.
- WorkshoD                    1         600)                  building
Total             1.900
3. PARC Cereal Oiseases Res.lnst.
- Head House                  1         352  )                Cobned in
- Mchine Rom                  1         240  )                main NM   Lab.
- Staff Houses                6       2.440                   Not built
4. MARC Station Oevelop.ent
- Irrigation Canals           -         7.8 km)                 Cancelled
-Roads                        -         8.0 k)                  from credit.j/
- Greenhouse                  2       3.500  )                Cobned In
- Nachinery Shed/Storage      2       4.000  )                main MARC Lab.
- Housing Unit               54      42.300            54    51,315                121
- Hostel                      1       3,600              1     5.910               164
5. MARC Animal Sciences
a) Animal Farm Centre:
- Stock Sheds                 3      29.000                   36.577               133
- Dairy                       I       1.000                    3.403               340
-Hay Shed                     1       4.500  )
-Feed Store                   1         550  )                 5,246                104
-Office                       1         8O                    1.640               205
-  achinery Shed              1       3.000                    3.909               130
- Fish Tanks                  4       4.000                    3.770                94
56.547
14.678               1
*          ~~~Sub-Total          42,6S0                   71.225               166



- 43 -
ANSEX I
Table I
Page 2
Actual as %
Item                     Appraisal Estimate               Actual                 of olanned
No.     Area (sq.ft)       Mo.    Area (sq.ft)
- House (Grade II)             1       2,500                     2.539                102
- House (Grade III)            2       2.000                     2.235                712
- House (Grade IV)            20      10,400                    12.213                11I
Sub-Total            14.900                     16.987               114
b) Livestock Lab. Centre:
- LaboratGr1es                 -       4.800                    Combined in
- Offices                      -       2.940                    main NARC Lab.
7.740
6. MARC Oiseeds Division
- Laboratories & Offices       -       5.820                   Crmined in
- Garage                                 480                    main ARC Lab.
Sub-Total             6.300
7. MARC Plant Intro./Genetic Resources Oiv.
- Office Buildings             1       4.480                    Main MARC Lab.
- Shade/Greenhouses            3       7.600
-  arage                       1         480                    Main NARC Lab.
Sub-Total            12.560
8. MARC Agri. Eng. Oivision
(Far NMachinery Inst. fRI)
- Offices                      -       8.150                     9.762                120
- Workshops/Stores             -      11.300                    10.746                 95
- Garage                       -       2.000                     2.150                108
- Guard houses                 -         600                      -
- Connecting corridor          -        -                        1.532                 -
Total            22.2S0                    24,190                109
9. MARC Agric. Econ. Res. Unit
- Office                       1       1.140                    Combined in main MARC Lab.
10. MARC main laboratories
- Total area   /                     30.132                    30.800                102
j/ These works were done under USAID financing.
y   Additional units totalling 14.678 sq.ft. were agreed with IDA on 25 April 1984.
yf See Table 2 for details.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1158-PAK)
Composition of NARC Main Laboratory Built Areas
SAR Estimate
Area          Base Cost
(sq.ft.)      (PRs million)
PARC Lab. Equipment Maintenance Unit               1,900            0.49
PARC Cereal Diseases Research Institute              592            0.34
NARC Station Development                                            5.10 1/
-   Greenhouses                                    3.500
-   Machinery/Storage sheds                        4,000
MARC Livestock Lab. Centre                         7,740            2.25
NARC Oilseeds Division                             6,300            1.84
NARC Plant Intro./Genetic Resources Div.                            1. 72
-   Office buildings                               4,480
-   Garage                                           480
NARC Agri. Economics Res. Unit                     1,140            0.33
Total                                  30,132            12.07
Actually built:  30,800 sq.ft., i.e. 102% of SAR estimate.
1/ Including hostel.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1158-PAK)
SummarY of Staff Housing
SAR Estimate
Description                                 No.       Area        iase Cost
(s4.7ft.)      (PRs'000)
PARC Officer Hrusing          *
-   Grade 1                                  2        6,000           1,060
-   Grade 2                                  2        5,000             900
-   Grade 3                                  2        3,000             540
SL  rotal                      6        14,000          2,500
NARC Station Development
-   Officer units                           14       20,800           3,584
+ 891 j/
-   Staff units                             40       21,488           3,022
- -                       +S0o01
Sub-Total                     54       42,288           8,297
Animal Farm Centre
-   Grade 2                                  1        2,500             450
-   Grade 3                                  2        2,000             576
-   Grade 4                                 20       10.400           1.404
Sub-Total                     23       14.900           2,430
Total                         83       71,188          13,227
ComParison between estimated and actual area
Actual as
SAR Estimate             XBuilt      Planned
(No.)  (sq.ft)   (NO.). (s{rft)
PARC Officer Housing              6    14,000      6      16,795       120
NARC Station Development         54    42,288     54      51,315       121
NARC Animal Sciences             23    14,900     23      16,987       114
PARC Cereal Diseases              6     2,440      -           -     not built
Total              89    73.628     83      85.097        116
Ij   Site development.



' 46 _
ANNEX 1
Table4
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. l158-PAK)
Floor Surface Areas of Buildings Constructed
Appraisal      Actually      Actual as
Description                            Estimate         Bu%it        X planned
T-q -f t)     (i - )
PARC Secretariat Headquarters           52,400         59,000           113
NARC Main Laboratory                    30,132         30,800           102
Agricultural Machinery Institute        22,250         24,190           109
NARC Animal Sciences Building           42,850         71,225           166
NARC Hostel                              3,600          5,910           164
Staff Housing                           73.628 1/      85,097 2/        116
Total                            224.860        276.222          123
1/   SAR estimate  -   89 houses.
2/   Actually constructed - 83 houses.



PAKI;TAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Civil Works Costs
Itea                                . . . . . . . . SAR Estimate 1/ . . . .    . .
Physical      pr1ee                                Total Ascertaina 2V
ae         cant.                         Total C oa      #a          Ss
(15%)                    (PRs)    (US)aI        (PRs)         (USS)3I   (PRs)       (USa)
PARC He*aquarters                   18.99       2.65         7.22        29.06      2.94        50.16          3.25       173        II1
NARC Main LaD. a hostel             12.07       1.81         4.59        18.47      1.17         9.47          0.61        Sl         33
Aeri. Machinery Institute            4.89       0.73         1.86         7.46      0.76         7.07          0.46        95         61
Animal Sciences Buitling            6C22        0 93         2-36         9.51      0.96        23.51         1t53        247        159
Sub-Tota)                                                       fi4.52      65S9        90.21          5 85        140        90 o
Staff housing:
-  PARC officer nousing              2.50       0.38         0.95         3.83      0.39         3.90          0.25       102         64
-  "ARC:  14 officer units           4.48       0.67         1.70         6.85      0.69         9.0B          0.59       133         86
40 staff units            3.82       0.57         1.45         5.64      0.59         6.00          0.39       103         66
-  Animal Sciences: 23 hous-o        2.43       0.36         0 92         3 71      0.3?         4 ,7          0.27       112         73
Sub-Total                   55 40                                20.23      2 04        23. tS          I 50       14          ?4
lotal                                                        84.75      8.57       113.36          7.35       133         86
s.ssc:==_inaa.c2=asscsfaasaaas-=a..@..asssus.Sc---e5=S;-sfs-=C3S3S  -SSSSS--sC6SSSSCSSCSlcSsS
1I   Roads, canals. watercourses ano Control valves cancellea from NARC station development not included.
A/   Includes costs of elevators. air conditioning and telephone exchange to reflect total builoing costs. These itels were
procured as "equipment' under ttU project.
A/   USSI.00 a PRs9.9 - SAR.   USS1.00 a PAs4.00 - weighted average for construction period.
J Z
u ZW
opX
C~~~~ 



_40 ,io                                                                         U. S. S. R.           IBRD 15488R
840     ~i0                                              i   72       U.S.S. R.     
PAKISTAN                                                      .   f
CHINA
MAIN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS                                                              -
NO                                         AND                                                                                             |
AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES                                                       C. '  ''-?
r)
RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS                                                           j    V,l 
*  NARCANDPARC                                                   4                     /4/                 . Aep'o-sto L"w ofCo,two
O  PLANT.SOIlSANDFORESTRY                                      l' 'l
ANIMALSCIENCEANDFISHERIES                                                                                ......
*  MONA                                 >                                                V*t
AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES                                       C4                                               JAMMU AND KAHR
I INDUS DELTA
H SOUTHERN IRRIGATED PLAIN
fit SANDY  DESERTI(&b1 )./                                                           R-nd, _
IV NORTHERNIRRIGATEOPLAIN (&bl .
V  BARANI LANDS                                                                     V
VI WET MOUNTAINS                                        )
Vit NORTHERN DRY MOUNTAINS
320               ~~~~~ViII WESTERH DRY MOUNTAINS 
32                      iX DRYWESTERN PLATEAU
X SULAIMAN PIEDMONT                                                                                                    327
RIVERS                                              -
)             0    MhAiJN TOWNS                                                           Mb 11%1
/   ---  PRCI1NCE bOUNDIARIES    1J                                                       Iva
/                _._  lINTERNATKONAL
.                         BOES                  (      QuDec    ~ M1                                         ; 0BUNDAME.,uetta
I N  D I I4
280*)                                        \.                                                                                                   280
ISLAMC REP.s                      DE
OF IRAN            ,                                          DoIcrI     /  
,-  i   ^  /  S I /N  D  *      KILOMETERS 0         100      200       300
Mc             __Jo ,/ i\4Sakra s MILES 6  l    oo            260
,// //
2.0      Arab, an           5ea
Th$ AMa A" 000fWPv$d by U. Ab Na" S4* sto ooAoc~ Off 64f0,c
Po rJ   od of *$ m he d O O  of ThSe W." 8Cwa  *f'v
FNtte Clorb  Pd dv*4fwa wwF S. bwxt            .,l onW  JO
eI fte kW saao,3 of  of, 64   dW e Ibtr  Od o, dc0WtJIf Jd l bS    1
40                                     68M                                                                             1
MARCH 1990



