Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY  ¶        9      M Y
Report Vo. 3242-PAK
PAKI STAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
April 1, 1981
South Asia Projects Department
Education and Agricultural Institutions Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1 = Pakistan Rupees 9.9
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
AARI    -    Ayub Agricultural Research Institute
AED     -    Agricultural Engineering Division
AERU    -    Agricultural Economics Research Unit
ARD     -    Agricultural Research Division
CDRI    -    Cereal Diseases Research Institute
CDWP    -    Central Development Working Party
CEU     -    Civil Engineering Unit
CGRS    -    Contractual Research Grant Scheme
CIDA    -    Canadian International Development Agency
CIMMYT  -    International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
CIP     -    International Potato Center
EAD     -    Economic Affairs Division
ECNEC   -    Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FAO/CP  -    Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FMS     -    Financial Management Services
GDP     -    Gross Domestic Product
GOP     -    Government of Pakistan
ICARDA  -    International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
IDA     -    International Development Association
IRRI    -    International Rice Research Institute
MEB     -    Member Executive Board
MINFA   -    Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives
NARC    -    National Agricultural Research Center
NSC     -    National Seed Committee
NWFP    -    North West Frontier Province
PARC    -    Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
PCCC    -    Pakistan Central Cotton Committee
PFI     -    Pakistan Forestry Institute
PIU     -    Project Implementation Unit
TOR     -    Terms of Reference
UAF     -    University of Agriculture, Faisalabad
UGC     -    University Grants Commission
USAID   -    United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA   -    Water and Power Development Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PA_ISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ................... .o ............... . ...                1
Project Genesis .......................e..e..*.                  .**********   1
Agriculture in Pakistan ............................    1
II.   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN PAKISTAN ........................    4
A.  Background .......              ......................            4
Government Policies and Agricultural Research           ,         4
B. Research Infrastructure .......                                    6
Federal Agricultural Research Institutions.                       6
The Provincial Agricultur al Research Insti tutions               9
Other Agricultural Research Institutions                         11
Training in Agricultural Research ....           ................   11
International Support for Agricultural Research ......           12
C.  On-going Research Programs ...........................   12
Achievements and Potential .....          ......................    16
Linkages Between Research, and Extension .............      .   17
D.  Problems and Constraints .......*..........         ............   18
III.   THE PROJECT .Z..                         .......................   20
A.  Objectives  ...................    20
B.  General Description . . ......................         .         20
C.  Project Components ...        .      ...................... .   22
D.  Detailed Features ...........................   .23
Pakistan Agricultural Research Council            ...............   23
National Agricultural Research Center ................   25
Contractual Research Grant Scheme (CRGS) ....         .........   29
Agricultural Economics Research ....................             30
Manpowet Development e...............................            31
Technical Assistance  ......................... . ...   32
Mid-Term Review .............. ..       .                       32
IV.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING . ............................           32
A.  Cost Estimates .......................................   32
B.  Proposed Financing .. ................................. 35
Procurement and Disbursement ..         ...............          35
Accounts and Audit .., .               ..       ...... . ...    36
Impact on Government Budget Funding ............. .....   37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents  (Continued)                                                           Page No.
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .......  .......................    37
The Project Implementation Unit  ......             ....................    38
Supervision of Construction ..................             ............    38
Procurement  ..............................................                    38
Training and Technical Assistance Support                   ................   38
Secretariat and Chairman's Office .................               .......    39
Financial Management Services                 ............................    39
Contractual Research Grant Scheme ......                 ..................    39
Agricultural Economics Research Units                   ....................    40
PARC Support Services  ...........            .........................    40
Training  .................................................                    40
Technical Assistance .......................  ....................    41
Monitoring and Evaluation .............................                        42
VI.    BENEFITS,  JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                 ........................    43
Benefits  .............            ............................    43
Institutional Impact  ........................ o.............    44
Risks ..............................................   44
VII.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ..........................................   44



- iii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1    Major Recommendations from Agricultural Research Subsector Review
2    Staff of Agricultural Research Establishments
3    Key Staff Vacancies to be Filled by GOP at PARC
4    PARC Accounting Procedures
5    Procedures for Overseas Training
6    Guidelines for the Preparation and Approval of Research Subprojects
7    Estimated IDA Disbursements
8    Implementation Schedule
9    Project Costs and Charts
Table 1  -  Summary of Project Costs
Table 2  -  PARC Administration
Table 3  -  Station Development - NARC
Table 4  -  PARC Research Information Unit
Table 5  -  Laboratory Equipment Maintenance and Repair Unit - PARC
Table 6  -  Civil Engineering Unit
Table 7  -  Plant Sciences   NARC
Table 8  -  Animal Sciences - NARC
Table 9  -  Cereal Diseases Research Institute
Table 10 -  Oilseed Division - NARC
Table 11 -  Plant Introduction/Genetic Resources Division - NARC
Table 12 -  Agricultural Engineering Division. - NARC
Table 13 -  Extension Methodology Research
Table 14 -  Unit Cost of Agricultural Economics Research Units
(AERU) Salaries
Table 15 -  Agricultural Economics Research Unit - NARC
Table 16 -  Agricultural Economics Research Unit - Faisalabad
Table 17 -  Agricultural Economics Research Unit - Tarnab
Table 18 -  Agricultural Economics Research Unit - Sariab
Table 19 -  Agricultural Economics Research Unit - Tandojam
Table 20 -  Training and Technical Assistance
Table 21 -  Fellowships and Short Term Training
Table 22 -  Technical Assistance
Chart 22379      Proposed Organization for Pakistan Agricultural
Research Council
Chart 22380      Organization Chart - Proposed PARC Financial
Management Services
10    List of Materials Available in Project File
MAP
IBRD 15488






PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Project Genesis
1.01      The World Bank Agriculture Sector Review 1/ of January 1976 iden-
tified increased investment in agricultural research in Pakistan as a key
requirement for improving agricultural productivity. Several agricultural
research projects have been prepared and are being supported by various aid
agencies (paras. 2.32 and 2.33) notably USAID, whose current project, which
is due to terminate in June 1981, was implemented by Pakistan Agricultural
Research Council (PARC), the premier federal agricultural research organiza-
tion.
1.02      In early 1979, recognizing the need to maintairL the momentum of
agricultural research development, Government of Pakistan (GOP) requested IBRD
and USAID to organize an international team to review thet agricultural research
subsector. The subsequent report 2/ identified continuing problems in organi-
zation, management and execution of agricultural research in Pakistan and
provided a list of recommendations (Annex 1) for further improvements and
additions to the research programs. The project appraised in this report is
an outcome of these recommendations.
1.03      The project was prepared by PARC with assistance from FAO/CP.  This
report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of A.J.
Pritchard, M. Artaza, S. O'Humay and P.J. Brumby (IDA), and P. Thresher (FAO/CP)
that visited Pakistan in September/October 1980.
Agriculture in Pakistan
1.04      Pakistan consists of four provinces (Punjab, Sind, Baluchistan and
North West Frontier Province (NWFP)) and several federally administered areas.
The total area of the country is about 79 M ha but because of the mainly arid
or semi-arid climate only about 19 M ha are cultivated. Of this area, about
6 M ha, mainly in the north and northwest, are farmed under rainfed farming
systems and 13 M ha are irrigated from a 64,000 km network of canals and
179,000 tubewells. There are only about 3 M ha of exploitable forest.
The population of about 80 M is largely concentrated in the Indus River
Irrigation System and is growing at an annual rate of about 3%. Pakistan is
one of the poorest countries in the world with a current annual per capita
income estimated at US$270, but income for the smaller farmers averages only
about US$200 per annum.
1/   Pakistan Special Agriculture Sector Review, 922a-PAK, January 28, 1976.
2/   Agricultural Research Subsector Review, 2691-PAK, May 21, 1980.



- 2 -
1.05      About 70% of farmers cultivate holdings of less than 5.0 ha (the
area calculated as necessary for subsistence by irrigated farming in
Pakistan 1/) and 40% of holdings are less than 3.0 ha. The farms under 3.0 ha
occupy only 12% of available cropping area and in the past their needs have
been neglected; the major benefits of improved technology going to the larger
farmers. Sixty percent of farmers rent all or part of their land, mostly on a
share cropping basis. The major crops are wheat, rice, cotton and sugarcane
which are sown on 61% of the cropped area. Fodder crops are also important
and occupy a further 12%. The small landowners own most of the livestock
which provide milk, meat and 90% of draft power for land cultivation. The
demands for meat and milk outpace supplies and this has led to a number of
official "meatless" days each week, and increasing imports of milk and milk
products which now cost about US$50 M each year.
1.06      Agriculture is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy.  It accounts
for about 30% of Pakistan's GDP, employs about 55% of the total labor force
of 23.0 M, and directly or indirectly provides 70% of the country's exports,
principally rice and cotton. Arable crops provide 69%, livestock 28% and
fishing and forestry 3% of agricultural GDP. Irrigated areas are the origin
of 90% of farm output. The complex irrigation system based on the Indus river
constitutes the largest integrated irrigation system in the world .
1.07      Agricultural growth in Pakistan during the 1960s averaged almost 6%
per year, mainly due to the introduction of high-yielding varieties of rice
and wheat, increased use of chemical fertilizer and increased supplies of
irrigation water through public and private tubewells. During the first seven
years of the 1970s, agriculture's growth at about 1.5% per annum failed to
keep pace with the growth of population; but during the last three years
growth performance has been encouraging: value added in agriculture increased
by 2.5% in FY1978, 4.2% in FY1979 and about 6.2% in FY1980. Reasonably good
cotton crops in two out of the last three years, a recovery in wheat in FY1979
following rust attacks in the preceding year, and consistently good rice har-
vests have contributed to the recent growth in agricultural output. The
growth has occurred despite low production of animal products, poor sugarcane
crops during FY1979 and FY1980 and low output of edible oils. Edible oil
imports have increased sharply and are now a substantial burden on the balance
of payments.
1.08      In part, the recent growth in agricultural output represents a
rebound from depressed crops in the case of cotton and wheat, and in part
the effects of continued acreage expansion, particularly in rice and wheat.
The acreage under rice increased by 15% between FY1977 and FY1979 and under
wheat by 5% over the same period. There was also a modest improvement in
per-hectare yields of some crops. While per-hectare yields in wheat rose
sharply in FY1979 over the depressed level of the previous year, the improve-
ment over the more normal level of FY1977 was 3%, and in rice about 4%. Per-
hectare yields in cotton have been erratic from year to year, and do not
proNide a clear trend, while per-hectare yields in sugarcane have declined.
1/   This area would be smaller if the land were more efficiently utilized.
Present cropping intensity is 100% in irrigated and 70% in dryland areas.



The recent increases in agricultural output thus do not represent a major
breakthrough from the problems of low productivity constraining Pakistan's
agriculture.
1.09      It is a matter of grave concern to GOP that in spite of its agricul-
tural resources, the nation is frequently not self-sufficient in wheat, sugar,
vegetable oil and milk products. Production is well below achievable levels
considering the good soils, favorable climate and availability of irrigation
water. An objective of GOP's Fifth Five-Year Developmenlt Plan (1978-83) is
a 6% annual growth rate for agriculture. Some growth in livestock production
is expected, but major emphasis under the plan will be directed to crops and
increased yield. This will, in part, depend on increasing availability and
use of water, drainage, fertilizer and other inputs; improving land tenure
systems so as to reduce sharecropping; setting farmgate prices at levels which
encourage production; and improving flood control, but it will also depend on
improving extension services and the technology of agricultural production.
Better techniques are needed for dealing with pressing problems, such as
soil salinity, water loss from irrigation channels, insect attacks and plant
diseases. These techniques can be generated through an agricultural research
system that is effectively integrated to obtain nationwide results.
1.10      Bank staff have been working with GOP for some time to develop a
detailed program of reform in the agricultural and water sectors, leading to
a revised sector investment strategy.  A "Revised Action Program for Irrigated
Agriculture", the outcome of a three-year study financed by UNDP, for which
the Bank was Executing Agency, was completed in mid-1979. The study has high-
lighted the past deficiencies in government agriculturaL policies and proposed
a revised strategy designed, within the context of continuing resource con-
straints, to release existing resources for higher priority purposes and
generating new resources through quick-yielding investments. The recommenda-
tions of the UNDP study can be grouped into three major categories: (a)
adjustment of pricing and subsidy policies, to reflect real resource costs
more accurately; (b) management policies to enable the transfer of responsi-
bility to the private sector for appropriate operations and facilities now in
the public sector's domain; and (c) revised investment policies to facilitate
quick returns and complement the major irrigation facilities already provided
rather than create new infrastructural facilities or extend the irrigated
area. The report emphasizes agricultural and water management extension
services, agricultural research, seed certification, animal husbandry and the
provision of appropriate rural infrastructure. The Government of Pakistan has
accepted the principal conclusions of the UNDP study and initial steps have
been taken to implement some of its major recommendations, including improved
institutional coordination between irrigation and agriculture and increased
emphasis on the importance of improving water management, extension, credit,
research and seed supply. A start has also been made in reducing input
subsidies, notably on fertilizers and pesticides and adjusting support prices
to maintain farmer incentives. Under the Fertilizer Imports Credit (1066-PAK)
signed in October 1980, the Government has agreed to continue this policy with
the aim of eliminating the fertilizer subsidy by 1985. An Agricultural Prices
Commission has been established to carry out pricing reviews and to recommend
appropriate adjustment.



- 4 -
II   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN PAKISTAN
A. Background
2.01      The agricultural research system in Pakistan is complex.  Research,
high-level agricultural manpower training, planning and coordination are
responsibilities of the Federal Government, but under the Constitution,
responsibility for agriculture has been delegated to the Provinces. The
result has been that most agricultural research which is applied or adaptive
by nature, is controlled by the provinces, while responsibility for basic and
long-term research (including most forestry research) has remained with the
federal government. The position is further complicated by the fact that
responsibility for agricultural research on a national basis is distributed
among several ministries and semi-autonomous institutions, such as the Minis-
try of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives (MINFA), Ministry of Water and
Power, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Education, Atomic Energy Commission,
etc. Currently, the two agricultural universities and about 60 separate
research and academic institutions scattered throughout Pakistan conduct
research in isolation and there is little cooperation between them.
2.02      Public budgetary allocation for federal and provincial agricultural
research in 1978/79 was about Rs 277 M or 0.5% of the agricultural contribu-
tion to GDP. In more industrialized nations, and in India this figure is
closer to 1.5%. According to the World Bank policy paper on agricultural
research systems in countries where agriculture is the key economic sector,
an expenditure of 2% of agricultural GDP on research is appropriate. 1/
Government Policies and Agricultural Research
2.03      The revised Fifth Plan (1978-83) stresses accelerated agricultural
growth, self-sufficiency in foodgrains, and expanded revenues from agricul-
tural exports. The plan calls for an integrated effort to achieve its
aims, implying better coordination and cooperation between departments and
agencies within the agricultural sector, both at federal and provincial
levels. It will also require a major strengthening of agricultural research
services.
2.04      GOP recognizes a dual role for PARC.  First, responsibility for
coordinating research and for keeping agricultural research programs in
line with the country's economic and social development policies. Second,
initiating and conducting basic research and developing new research in
priority areas not adequately covered under the existing research programs.
2.05      PARC is preparing a National Agricultural Research Plan which will
identify research to be conducted in terms of national needs. At present,
however, there is no procedure by which government policies can be translated
1/   Agricultural Research Systems - Sector Policy Paper, April 18, 1980,
p. 27.



into research topics and priorities allocated between research programs com-
peting for scarce resources. A National Agricultural Policy paper 1/ has
been prepared by MINFA and using this and the recommendation of the inter-
national review team PARC has been able to identify the following research
requirements in terms of national objectives for the agricultural sector.
National Objective                         Research Requirement
1.   Improvement in living standards        On-farm meat and milk production.
of small farmers.
Methods of increasing the area
under irrigation. (Reduction of
water loss and efficient on-farm
water management).
Designs for small tractors.
Methods for drilling fractional
tubewells.
2.   Increase production of                 Production technology of oilseed
cooking oil.                           crops.
Introduction of new oilseed crops.
3.   Self-sufficiency in foodgrains.        Rust resistance in wheat varieties.
Increased production from barani
and cooler regions.
4.   Increased sugar production.             Introduction of improved cane
varieties.
New sugar crops for cooler regions.
5.   Protection and use of watersheds       Range management.
and fragile environments.
Fodder production and grazing
management.
6.   Reduction of milk imports.             Improved cattle breeds (artificial
insemination).,
Reproduction in buffalo.
Production of fodder crops.
1/   National Agricultural Policy.  Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Coop-
eratives, GOP, February 1980.



-6-
National Objective                         Research Requirement
7.   Increased meat supplies.               Animal nutrition and production of
feeds from locally available sources
(crop residues).
Animal health.
8.   Improved human nutrition.              Production technology of pulses.
Horticultural crops.
9.   Control of salinity.                   New resistant varieties of crops.
Cropping systems.
10.  Use of improved seeds.                 National testing for varieties and
seeds.
11.  Reduced fertilizer subsidy.            Optimum use of fertilizer.
12.  Meat exports.                          Beef from aged animals.
Fisheries.
Poultry.
13.  Increase in agricultural pro-          Methodology of agricultural extension.
duction per unit of land.
Plant introduction.
Constraints to production and to
acceptance of improved technology.
B. Research Infrastructure
Federal Agricultural Research Institutions
2.06      The Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC) evolved from the
Indian Council of Agricultural Research, first, as the Food and Agriculture
Council of Pakistan, then in 1964, as the Agricultural Research Council, and
finally as PARC in 1978. As constituted in 1978, PARC is an autonomous body,
which works in close coordination with MINFA, Provincial Agricultural Depart-
ments, Agricultural Research Institutes and the Agricultural Universities.
The Minister for Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives is the President of the
Council which serves as the governing board of PARC. The operations of PARC
are coatrolled by an Executive Board, consisting of a chairman and four full-
time members, representing plant sciences, animal sciencies, social sciences
and finance. Each full-time member is responsible for a cadre of research
management staff responsible for the organization and coordination of research
on individual commodities or production factors, including national coordinated
projects (para. 2.12). These staff include so-called research coordinators,



a title which has caused some confusion as it was previously used as a
guous designation for leading scientists; often Directors of Institutes. In
the present context, research coordinator are full-time employees of P. sC
responsible for formulating, evaluating and assigning research programs.
2.07      Finances for PARC are provided as follows:
(a)  Funds collected by the Customs Department as a cess on
specified agricultural exports (Rs 16.8 M in FY1979/80);
(b)  Regular budgetary allocation of funds from the Federal
Government (Rs 47.0 M in FY1979/80--including Rs 34.7 M
for the ongoing USAID project);
(c)  PL 480 funds provided by the US Department of Agriculture
(USDA) (Rs 11.1 M in FY1979/80); and
(d)  Other sources for development, primarily Ford Foundation
and USAID (Rs 0.8 M in FY1979/80).
In 1978/79, PARC's total allocation of funds for all operations including the
National Agricultural Research Center (NARC) (para 2.13) was Rs 64 M. This
rose to Rs 75 M in 1979/80 and is scheduled to be Rs 105 M in 1980/81.  Since
1978/79, PARC has utilized about 75% of funds allocated.
2.08      A new PARC ordinance has been approved which when fully implemented
will provide greater functional autonomy, new career and salary structures for
PARC employees and increased financial resources for the Council (para. 3.05).
The new ordinance defines the functions of PARC as follows:
"The Council shall have the exclusive responsibility and powers
to undertake, aid, promote and coordinate agricultural research;
ensure the expeditious utilization of the research results;
establish research establishments mainly to fill in the gaps in
existing program of agricultural research; arrange the training
of high-level scientific manpower; generate, acquire and disse-
minate information relating to agriculture; maintain liaison
with the international organizations concerned with agricultural
research; establish and maintain a reference and research library
and do all such other matters as are necessary or ancillary thereto."
2.09      PARC is an evolving institution.  It has been the beneficiary of a
USAID research project, which when completed, will have provided 150 MSc and
PhD training courses; long-term technical advisers in commodity research,
campus planning and research management; 128 staff quarters in Islamabad; 12
housing units, six laboratories and buildings for administration, documenta-
tion, library, cafeteria, auditorium, training centers and hostel accommoda-
tion at NARC; necessary laboratory equipment and agricultural machinery.
2.10      PARC has made significant progress in the development of procedures
to allow the efficient execution of its coordinating, monitoring and planning
functions. Its organization and management is basically sound and the 30



-8-
person council includes representatives from provincial Agricultural Research
Institutes and functions adequately as a policy setting and advisory body.
The Executive Board is, however, too small for the demands made upon it and
some specific units need to be strengthened so that satisfactory support can
be offered to the provincial and other research institutions - especially
for information dissemination, training selection procedures and equipment
maintenance.
2.11      PARC operates its own research institutes (para 2.13) satisfactorily,
but insufficient resources have been made available for it to cater for all
gaps in research that are apparent, for instance, oilseeds research.
2.12      In addition to its direct suport for research at its own institu-
tions, PARC also operates collaborative and coordinated research projects.
Funds provided through PARC to the Provinces for collaborative research
programs (mostly involving GOP and USDA) serve to provide dedicated scientists
with the operating funds they need to tackle priority research problems. At
present, 90 such programs are under execution by 35 agencies. The coordinated
research projects which address national problems, provide cooperative plan-
ning, coordinated resource allocation and leadership in execution of research
programs. The projects so far financed by PARC cover wheat, barley, and
triticale; rice, maize, millet and sorghum; forage and fodder; oilseeds;
vegetables; and potato. PARC has not always been able to fulfill its manage-
ment and financial responsibilities either for the collaborative research
programs or the coordinated research projects. Because of governmental
regulations there have been bureaucratic delays both in the allocation of
funds and management decision making. The result has been incomplete utili-
zation of available funds (para 2.07). These problems have been recently
addressed by GOP by the establishment of an Agricultural Research Division
(ARD) in MINFA with Chairman PARC as its head. This acts as a secretariat
to GOP and facilitates contacts and administrative arrangements between the
provinces and PARC. The new ordinance for PARC, will enable it to overcome
problems of legal, financial and organizational interference from other
Departments of Government which up to now have hindered agricultural research
coordination and operational procedures.
2.13      PARC Institutes.  PARC operates directly seven research institutions.
Some, like the Cereal Diseases Research Institute (CDRI), Vertebrate Pest
Control Center and the Federal Pesticides Laboratory are well established.
Others, such as the Arid Zone Research Institute, are presently in the process
of being established. The National Agricultural Research Center (NARC) is
located on a 560 ha site near Islamabad, and will be developed into the
premier national center for research in plant and animal production. It
will function as the principal operational arm of PARC and conduct basic and
applied research on topics of national importance, particularly those requiring
liaison and collaboration with foreign and international institutes. No acti-
vities will be developed which are more appropriately the concern of existing
stations. Present plans emphasize water management, plant protection, plant
introduction, livestock and poultry improvement, agricultural machinery design
and development, and socio-economic aspects of agricultural production. Even
when the USAID project is completed (para 2.09), NARC will need additional
farm development, laboratories, animal houses, and residential buildings
before it can become fully operational.



- 9 -
2.14      Other Federal Agricultural Research Institutions.  Pakistan Central
Cotton Committee (PCCC) is an autonomous body under the administrative control
of MINFA. It is independent of PARC. The Minister of Agriculture is President
of PCCC and its full time vice-president has the status of Additional Secretary
to GOP. PCCC is responsible for research and development in the growing,
manufacturing and marketing of cotton in Pakistan and operates cotton research
institutes in Punjab and Sind (plus 13 stations, substations and testing
centers) and an industrial research institute at Karachi. PCCC is financed
largely by a cess collected on cotton exports; availability of funds there-
fore varies from year to year depending on cotton production.
2.15      The Atomic Energy Agricultural Research Center (Tandojam), and the
Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology (NIAB) (Faisalabad) were estab-
lished to study the application of nuclear techniques to agricultural and
biological research and a third is under construction in NWFP. The institutes
are under the control of the Atomic Energy Commission and are gradually
extending their activities into areas of research not requiring the use of
radio isotopes and irradiation. The terms of reference under which these
laboratories were established provide for their eventual transfer to the
national system of agricultural research.
2.16      The Pakistan Forestry Institute (PFI) at Peshawar is adjacent
to the university and enjoys a high degree of autonomy. It is supported
financially by MINFA and its Board of Governors is chaired by the Chief
Secretary of the NWFP government. Three research divisions study silviculture
(which includes range management and economics), forest products and biological
sciences. The education division offers forestry courses up to M.Sc. level to
students from all provinces of Pakistan.
2.17      Agricultural research is also conducted by the following autonomous
federal institutions: Pakistan Science Foundation; Soil Survey of Pakistan;
Department of Plant Protection; Pakistan Tobacco Board; Pakistan Council of
Scientific and Industrial Research (PCSIR); Council for Irrigation, Drainage
and Flood Control; and the Leather Board. The Water and Power Development
Authority supports agricultural research and development on the Mona Reclama-
tion Project and the seven Salinity Control and Reclamation Projects.
The Provincial Agricultural Research Institutions
2.18      Each province has an agricultural research institute and substations,
and some have commodity-oriented institutes. Punjab and Sind have agricul-
tural universities, and NWFP has a faculty of agriculture as part of the
provincial university, all of which are involved in limited agricultural
research programs. The bulk of the research at the provincial institutions
concentrates on plant breeding and with some exceptions (rice research at
Dokri, maize research at Pirsabek and research at some University Departments)
tends to be routine repetitive work with little innovative research. In
general, research projects which are discipline or activity oriented receive
higher priority than research on production oriented problems. Nevertheless,
by functioning as channels through which new varieties and technology have
been introduced from abroad, the provincial institutions have served the
agricultural sector well. Increases in crop yields were obtained in spite of
the limitations of an inactive extension service. Future developments will



- 10 -
depend on high quality research leadership; a factor which has been frequently
lacking due to the practice of promoting scientific staff by seniority rather
than ability (para 2.71).
2.19      Punjab.  The Ayub Agricultural Research Institute (AARI) evolved
from the Punjab Agricultural College and Research Institute now has 18 sub-
stations. Six of its original sections have since attained institute status,
although several of these are in a rudimentary state of development, e.g.
Wheat Research Institute, Faisalabad; Rice Research Institute, Kala Shah Kaku;
Maize and Millets Research Institute, Yousafwala. The research needs of the
livestock industry are the responsibility of the Livestock Production Insti-
tute, Bahadurnagar; Artificial Insemination Station, Qadirabad; and the
Veterinary Institute, Lahore which are agencies of the Punjab Livestock and
Dairy Development Department.
2.20      The University of Agriculture Faisalabad (UAF) includes the College
of Veterinary Sciences, Lahore. It is supported by federal grants from the
University Grants Commission (UGC), but is administered by the province. It
has recently been transfered from the provincial Department of Education to
the Department of Agriculture in an attempt to strengthen the association
between teaching, research and extension, and to ensure that students have
adequate contact with practical agriculture.
2.21      Within the total agricultural research system in the Punjab, there
is a wasteful dispersal of effort, not only between the provincial insti-
tutions, but also between provincial and federal institutions. There are,
for instance, four agencies involved with cotton research in Punjab and five
others elsewhere in Pakistan; but there is little coordination between them.
To correct this situation within Punjab a Provincial Research Coordination
Board has been established recently, under the chairmanship of the Vice-
Chancellor UAF, the Board has 67 members and 5 Executive Directors in charge
of agriculture, livestock, economics, engineering and information and logis-
tics. All research institutions are represented on the Board, including PARC.
The Board has been given financial, as well as planning authority and monitors
and evaluates in great detail, all research projects financed by the Punjab.
It is empowered to recommend witholding funds from projects and can demand
alterations in project design. It aims to integrate the Punjab's total
research effort and to approve all new research projects, including those
submitted to the Federal Government (i.e., through PARC) for funding. The
Board is too big to be effective and would not be required in the future when
PARC is fully established.
2.22      Baluchistan.  The province has only one research institute, located
at Sariab near Quetta, which concentrates on horticultural crops.   There are
some agricultural development projects in the province at which improved
technology is being tested, but generally such research is of low priority.
There is no agricultural faculty at the provincial university, and Baluchistan
is largely dependent on the Sind Agricultural University, at Tandojam, for
formal agricultural training.
2.23      NWFP.  A provincial agricultural research station was established at
Tarnab in 1910 and a network of substations subsequently added in response to



- 11 -
the needs of individual agro-ecological zones. The station became an insti-
tute in 1962 and is an agency of the provincial Department of Agriculiure.
More recently, plans have been made to upgrade some of the substaticas and
three specialized institutes have been established: for sugarcane at Mardan;
cereals at Pirsabak; and veterinary research at Peshawar. Agricultural
research is also conducted at the Agricultural Faculty of the Peshawar Uni-
versity, but activities are limited by lack of funds.
2.24      Sind.  The provincial Agricultural Research Institute at Tandojam
has eight substations and five research farms. In addition, the province
funds the Horticultural Research Station at Mirpurkhas and the Rice Research
Institute at Dokri. All three institutes are agencies of the provincial
Department of Agriculture. The Rice Research Institute was founded in 1938 as
a general crops research station, but gradually concentrated on rice in
response to changes in cropping patterns and an increase in area under rice.
The Institute was considerably improved in 1977 and maintains a linkage with
IRRI (Philippines).
2.25      Sind Agricultural University at Tandojam was upgraded from college
status in 1977 and has a limited agricultural research program. It is adminis-
tered by the Sind Department of Education. This arrangement may be changed
depending on the experiences in the Punjab where UAF has been transferred to
the Department of Agriculture for an experimental period.
2.26      Agricultural research in biological departments at the University of
Karachi is supported by grants from a number of sources, including the UGC,
PARC and the Pakistan Science Foundation. The Institute of Marine Biology is
linked with Karachi University, and some fisheries investigations are conducted
by provincial Department of Agriculture.
2.27      Livestock production research is conducted at the Department of
Agriculture's Poultry Research Institute and Artificial Insemination Center.
2.28      A Research Coordination Board has been set up in Sind but it is
not yet in operation.
Other Agricultural Research Institutions
2.29      There is little significant investment in agricultural research
by the private sector, although some large cotton farms and specialized agro-
industry businesses (e.g., Rafhan Maize Products, Faisalabad) test, adapt and
apply research results and help to disseminate improved techniques to cooper-
ating and/or neighboring farmers. Private sugar mills in Sind have recently
set up a small research and advisory organization to investigate and advise
upon improved agronomic practices.
Training in Agricultural Research
2.30      The University of Agriculture, Faisalabad and the Sind Agriculture
University provide undergraduate courses in most aspects of agriculture
(including animal sciences) and a wide range of Masters and Doctorate degree
courses. In NWFP, the Faculty of Agriculture, University of Peshawar and
PFI offer training up to Masters level in agriculture and forestry respectively.



- 12 -
2.31      There is no shortage of staff at the primary degree level and
capacities for B.Sc. training at the universities are in excess of anticipated
requirements. 1/ According to a 1979 survey by the National Science Council,
the total manpower engaged in agriculture research is 2,834 (233 with Ph.D
degrees), including 696 university teaching staff, 125 of which are Ph.D's
(Annex 2). In view of the many research topics requiring attention, the
shortage of technical manpower trained to the Ph.D level is critical.
International Support for Agricultural Research
2.32      Several countries and international organizations have supported
agricultural research in Pakistan. USAID has assisted in developing NARC,
establishing a management system and establishing several coordinated research
projects. USAID has also supported the Mona Reclamation Experimental Project
in Punjab (para 2.17).
2.33      FAO/UNDP has provided assistance to the Vertebrate Pest Control
Center, Karachi; Pakistan Forest Institute, Peshawar; Poultry Research Insti-
tute, Karachi; Livestock Production Research Institute, Bahadurnagar; Cotton
Research Institute, Multan; and National Fertilizer Development Center,
Islamabad. The Australian Development Assistance Bureau is assisting in
setting up a Maize and Millet Research Institute in NWFP and the Livestock
Division of NARC. IRRI is assisting PARC with its Agricultural Machinery
Project. Training facilities, germplasm and services of experts have been
made available by IRRI, CIMMYT, CIP and ICARDA. The agricultural extension
projects in Punjab, Sind and NWFP have agriculture research as a small com-
ponent in each. Ford Foundation is helping PARC in agriculture economics
research and documentation. Research programs for animal nutrition, for
fisheries, for pulp and paper and other forestry subjects are under consid-
eration by UNDP/FAO, who may also support buffalo research with a specific
nutrition component.
2.34      The agricultural universities have received aid and assistance
from UNESCO and from universities in the United States of America. The World
Bank has provided support to the Agricultural Universities at Faisalabad and
Tandojam (Credits 50-PAK and 678-PAK).
C. On-going Research Programs
2.35      Most agricultural research in Pakistan is applied or adaptive in
nature. Except for some programs at specialized institutions (NIAB, Cotton
Research Institute) and some University Departments, there is little emphasis
on the more fundamental aspects of the problems studied.
2.36      In general, the distribution of agricultural research institutions
(Map L54°8) has been directed towards the needs of the irrigated areas.  The
research requirements of the barani (rainfed) areas, the coastal areas and
the cooler regions (Northern areas and Azad Kashmir) have been neglected.
1/   Fifth Education (Vocational Training) Project; IBRD 3105-PAK, page 3.



- 13 -
2.37       Cereal Grain Crops:  Research is in progress at institutions scat-
tered throughout Pakistan. Emphasis is upon breeding and selection for high
yield; a policy which contributed in 1978 to the poor wheat harvest due to
susceptibility of varieties in use to leaf and stripe rust. Disease resistance
in cereals is now receiving more attention, especially at CDRI, which has the
mandate to work on cereal pathology. Research is concentrated on the wheat
rust and smuts, specifically the virulences of different races, evaluation of
systemic fungicides, seed borne sources of infection and screening breeding
material at both seedling and adult stages.
2.38      Despite these developments, the cereal crops are continually threat-
ened by diseases and a greater research effort is needed to test control
measures, monitor the presence of disease races and study the development of
epidemics.
2.39       Research on agronomy, and fertilizer requirements as well as on crop
protection procedures is pursued to a more limited extent than plant breeding
at the cereal research stations. Results produced have formed the basis of
recommendations for cultivation practices, plant population sizes, and fertil-
izer applications, etc. which have been used by extension officers. New
initiatives are needed to orientate the research programs towards solving
other serious problems, (e.g., soil salinity, waterlog;ging, mixed and relay
cropping, soil capping, threshing, etc.) and adapting known techniques to
Pakistan conditions.
2.40       Oilseeds and Pulses.  In spite of a 270% increase in production of
oilseed crops since 1972, the gap between demand and production of edible oil
is increasing. At present, Pakistan is forced to import edible oil worth
almost US$270 M annually. Only a limited amount of research is in progress
and this is concerned primarily with the introduction and evaluation of new
varieties (some new early varieties of mustard have been released). Some
research on improved agronomic practices, soil and water management, including
testing on farmers' fields, has begun recently. Surveys of insect pests are
underway and the role of insects in the pollination of sunflower, rape and
mustard is being studied. New research is needed on increasing oil content
(as opposed to seed yield) and on improving quality of oil and meal. This
will require new breeding programs with sophisticated analytical procedures,
themselves demanding specialized facilities.
2.41       Pulses play a very important role in Pakistani diet, being the major
source of protein for the bulk of the population. The country has a chronic
shortage of the main pulses mainly because the varieties of pulse crops
currently sown in Pakistan are low-yielding and the package of production
technology for these crops is inadequate. Very little work has been done on
the nutritional value of the available pulse crops.
2.42       Horticultural Crops.  The introduction and etvaluation of new varie-
ties of horticultural crops and fruit trees has only recently been initiated.
Although some success has been achieved in producing varieties of mango, the
work on other fruit crops especiallv deciduous fruits is negligible. Useful
research has been conducted on potatoes (including varietal screening, seed
production and virus identification) and research has been started on the cold
storage of fruit. Considering the importance of fruit and vegetables to the
diet, horticultural science has been grossly neglected.



- 14 -
2.43      Commercial Crops.  The important commercial crops are cotton,
sugarcane and tobacco. Research on tobacco is adequate. While both basic
and applied research on cotton has proceded for years results have been poor.
Priority has been given to the tall "peasant type" cottons, although recently,
moves have been made towards introducing short-statured, big-boll, high
quality types that have high yield potential and a stature facilitating pest
control measures. Integrated pest control is now cotton research strategy and
involves breeding for disease and pest resistance by manipulating specific
genes (nectariless, high-gossypol, hairyness) as well as developing chemical
control measures. In the fields of agronomy and physiology; irrigation
practices, planting methods and plant form and function have been studied.
2.44      Selection of sugarcane varieties has been primarily for cane yield.
New varieties are required with higher sugar content. Some research is in
progress on fertilizer requirements but a larger effort is needed on the con-
trol of viruses and borers. Research is needed to find other sugar crops to
replace cane in the north of Pakistan which is climatically marginal for
sugarcane.
2.45      Forage Crops and Range Management.  The ongoing research program is
primarily concerned with the introduction and evaluation of forage grasses and
legumes, studies of associated cropping patterns and testing simulated grazing
systems. A limited amount of research is conducted in the arid and cooler
upland zones where soil erosion is posing severe problems. Much of the
agronomic work has been with cereals, such as oats and maize which can be
used for forage.
2.46      Forestry.  Local collections have been made of promising types
and these have been used for the production of genetically superior planting
material. The initial work with poplars and eucalyptus has been successful
and experiments are now in progress on their management and pest control.
More information is now needed on management of indigenous forests and water
shed protection.
2.47      Soil and Water Management.  Much useful work has been accomplished
at the Mona Station on the improvement of water courses. Although there has
been some research on the consumptive use of water by various crops grown
under irrigation, there has been insufficient attention paid to the productive
use of water. Farmers require advice on the design of crop rotations which
will suit their needs. Research on drainage has been inadequate.
2.48      Under rainfed conditions, the responses to fertilizer on different
soils, the availability of the major nutrients, methods of soil and water
conservation and the economic benefits of supplementary irrigation, have been
studied. In spite of the problems of environmental stress, trace element
deficiencies and nitrogen fixation, there is little work in progress on
plant physiology or plant nutrition.
2.49      Agricultural Engineering.  Because of the seasonal shortages of
labor at critical times of the farming year, e.g., at paddy transplanting
and at threshing, the interest in farm machinery is increasing, but increased
efforts are required to adapt foreign designs to Pakistan's conditions.



- 15 -
2.50      Several institutions have made modest attempts to integrate aew
machines into the farming system. The major effort has been supported by
IRRI (the so-called IRRI-PAK program), whose strategy for small machin-ry
development has been followed. This includes indigenous production and
decentralized small scale manufacture. A few promising machines have been
imported, tested extensively and adapted to suit local c:onditions, e.g., the
axial flow thresher. Particularly important are the requirements for small
tractors and methods for sinking fractional tubewells suited to the needs of
small farmers.
2.51      Livestock.  Research on livestock is extremely limited.  Some small
scale attempts at cross-breeding cattle for milk production and upgrading
sheep and goats are in progress. The integration of crop and livestock
production has not been studied and there has been no critical evaluation
of village livestock practices. New research is needed on the economics of
production, farm management systems and fodder production.
2.52      Veterinary research on infectious diseases is sufficiently supported
and much effort is directed towards vaccine campaigns. Research on poultry
pathology is adequate for the industry's needs but more work is required on
nutrition and management.  Animal diseases on farms should be surveyed.
2.53      The artificial insemination services operate satisfactorily in
Pakistan but information is lacking on methods for the preservation of buffalo
semen. New methods are needed to streamline progeny testing of bulls.
2.54      Fisheries.  The research on marine fisheries at Karachi is confined
to the study of crustaceans. Many socio-economic problems, techniques of
fish capture and population dynamics remain to be studied. Inland fisheries
research is limited to small-scale experiments on nutrition and disease. The
country's resources should be surveyed and management practices developed
overseas and adapted to Pakistan's needs.
2.55      Economics.  Survey work has been started to collect data on cropping
patterns, which is expected to provide useful information on size of holdings,
cropping intensities, input availability, etc., but farmt level studies are few
and many aspects of economics in different agro-ecological zones have been
neglected. A major problem is the lack of interaction between social and
biological scientists and the contribution of economists to the development
of economically viable improved agricultural techniques is therefore slight.
This situation must be rectified and new research initiated, on the returns,
risks and constraints, to the adoption of recommended practices.
2.56      Two distinct aspects of agricultural economics research need to
be addressed. Firstly, a coordinated program of economics research should
be launched and, secondly, an economic analysis service should be provided.
A long range policy study group would be needed for the former, but the
strategic deployment of production economists, sociologists and biometricians
to work alongside biological scientists would satisfy the needs of the latter.



- 16 -
2.57      Plant Introduction.  Research on grain crops has received highest
priority and has tended to concentrate on breeding and selection of new
varieties. Plant introduction has been largely unorganized with individual
institutions or research scientists importing and using material without
adequate attention to quarantine procedures, adequate preliminary controls,
records or conservation measures. Most of these introductions have been lost,
and either a reluctance, or an inability on the part of seed suppliers to
maintain a flow of material now threatens the crop improvement program. A
viable plant introduction service in Pakistan is needed to provide germ plasm
of established crops and also for new crops such as coffee, jute, jojoba,
ginger, Leucaena, tamarind, etc.
2.58      Location-Specific Adaptation.  Research workers have tended to
confine their activities to the research stations rather than become involved
in verifying their findings on farmers fields or in different agro-ecological
zones. PARC coordinated projects have focused attention on national problems
and the experiments executed have provided the impetus for location-specific
research. In particular, the National Uniform Wheat Yield Trials System
provides data from 37 locations on the performance of candidate wheat varieties
submitted by scientists throughout Pakistan. The data are reviewed by experts
and provide the basis for recommendations by the National Seed Council (NSC)
for varietal release. This screening process allows the identification of
varieties exhibiting adaptability to specific agro-ecological zones, and also
those with undesirable traits, such as disease susceptibility. A similar
scheme is required for other crops in order to provide the technical recom-
mendations to NSC and the varietal releasing organizations.
2.59      The large gap between the average national yields and the potential
crop yields as demonstrated in research stations and in progressive farmers'
fields is a matter of concern to GOP and Pakistani scientists. A rice pro-
duction project in Larkana district of Sind, conducted in collaboration with
IRRI, studied the production process as a multi-factorial managemeent system
which included; application of extension packages, administrative organiza-
tion, availability of agricultural credit inputs supply, removal of marketing
constraints, etc. When all factors were included in the production process,
the result was a 100% increase in crop yield in the project area (3.4 to 6.8
tons/ha). This research approach is justified in that the system as a whole
requires study in limited manageable areas, which can be saturated with
extension information and scientific knowledge. Constraints can be identified
and the Training and Visit System of extension, adapted to the conditions
prevailing in different agro-ecological zones of Pakistan. At present, the
project concentrates on an individual crop, but a farming systems approach is
expected to develop as the research is gradually expanded to cover other crops
and adequate information becomes available.
Achievements and Potential
2.b0      The most significant increases in production that can be attributed
to agricultural research in Pakistan occurred in the 1960s and early 1970s
when cooperative research efforts involving federal and provincial institutes
and the International Agricultural Research Centers, viz. CIMMYT and IRRI
resulted in the release of improved varieties of wheat, rice, and maize. The
cultivation of these varieties resulted in a doubling of grain production.



- 17 -
Similar work on varietal introduction and evaluation resulted in the esta-
blishment of a banana industry and improved mango cultivation in Sind and
Punjab, and plantations of fast-growing poplar trees in northern Pakistan.
2.61      Research on fertilizer usage and agronomy has had smaller impact
at the farm level, but has demonstrated optimum N-P ratios for wheat, the use
of sulphur coated N for rice, use of zinc on rice growing in alkaline soils
and the successful control of weeds in maize.
2.62      Examples of successfully applied technology in animal sciences
are rarer but techniques have been developed for the control of bovine diseases
and for liver fluke in sheep. A new breed of poultry has been developed for
Punjab.
2.63      Pakistan has capable scientists who have made substantial progress
in many fields and who have demonstrated their ability to produce the tech-
nology on which further increase of agricultural production is dependent.
Experimental programs are being expanded, and provided adequate support and
coordination is available, there is every indication that the scientific
community would continue to serve the national agricultural research needs.
Linkages Between Research and Extension
2.64      The extension services have been the weakest link in the improve-
ment of agricultural production and linkages between research and extension
have not been adequately developed. A revitalization of these extension
services is essential and has been started by the introduction of the Training
and Visit Extension system in selected districts in Sind and Punjab. After
experience with the system and its adaptation to the socio-economic condi-
tions of Pakistan the Provincial Governments should extend it to the whole
country.
2.65      The research effort in Pakistan, being mostly applied in nature is
particularly dependent on an efficient extension service as the main recipient
for research results and for their transmission to the farming community.
The absence of an effective extension service should not be allowed to
adversely influence the establishment of new research programs. Research
is a long-term process and the extension messages of the future will be a
consequence of research programs initiated at the present time.
2.66      Research programs must be responsive to the nation's and farmer's
needs. Close linkages are required, therefore, between research scientists
and extension workers so that scientists can be kept aware of the problems
facing the farmer. The proper foci for such linkages are the provincial
research institutes and their substations which are primarily involved in
applied and adaptive research for the agro-ecological zone in which they are
located. However, a close association is also required between the central-
ized research services and an upgraded extension serviice. Currently, PARC is
promoting this by seminars, workshops, publications and cooperative research
projects which involve both professional staff and members of the farming
community. These interactions will keep PARC alerted to the increased demand
for research results which the extension service may be expected to demand
when the T&V system is fully operational.



- la -
D. Problems and Constraints
2.67      PARC is responsible, inter alia, for planning and coordinating
the national research effort, and with the assistance of USAID, has already
designed an improved operational and planning system, parts of which are in
process of implementation. Several constraints were identified by the inter-
national review team (para 1.02) which together with the general constraint
imposed by inadequate physical facilities are hindering the organization and
development of an efficient national agricultural research service. The
constraints affecting the quality of research (paras 2.69 to 2.76) and the
problem of lack of physical facilities would be addressed in the appraisal
project. Those relating to the complicated organization of agricultural
research (para 2.68) would be addressed at a later date when federal insti-
tutions (PARC) have adequate facilities, staff and prestige to enable the
problems to be forcefully tackled and satisfactory solutions worked out.
2.68      Coordination Between Research Institutions.  In addition to PARC,
several federal and provincial institutions are engaged in agricultural
research. Because of the division of responsibilities stated in the consti-
tution and inter-provincial boundary restrictions, research programs are
developed independently and there is neither sufficient coordination between
organizations nor adequate monitoring and evaluation of the work programs.
Duplication of efforts and the reluctance to direct attention from unpromising
lines of work leads to a wastage of resources. The usefulness of the Research
Coordination Boards which are to operate within Sind and Punjab has yet to be
demonstrated, but at best these Boards can only address the problem of intra-
provincial cooperation.
2.69      Agricultural Research Funding.  Agricultural research has received
low priority in the allocation of funds, which have been both inadequate and
not consistently available. This situation has been exacerbated by the
failure to reflect inflationary trends in budgetary reduction in real terms.
2.70      At present, staff costs account for 75% of available funds.  The
operational budget through which all experimental work is supported has been
reduced to 10% of the total allocation. Funds for building maintenance are
meager. The complicated bureaucratic procedures for incurring expenditure and
releasing funds have effectively prevented the complete usage of the funds
that are allocated (para. 2.07). Adequate and reliable funding is essential
if Pakistan is to benefit from new technology resulting from long-term research
programs.
2.71      Career Opportunities in Agricultural Research.  Agricultural
scientists need to be encouraged to tackle production problems rather than
discipline-oriented research projects. A professional climate is required for
the development of scientists and utilization of talent available in a manner
which is intellectually stimulating, professionally rewarding and economically
important to the development of the country.  A high staif morale is an
essential ingredient for success. However, the careers offered by Provincial
and Federal governments in agricultural research are unnecessarily unattrac-
tive. A major constraint is the civil service system of promotion by senior-
ity.   Although "lip-service" is paid in the promotion rules to personal



- 19 -
records of achievement, seniority per se far outweighs merit in promotions anc.
may result in the appointment of research directors unfitted for the posts.
2.72      PARC staff consists of a mixture of permanent employees, and staf-'
on deputation. The latter are insecure in their employment and constantly
seek promotion opportunities elsewhere. PARC, under its new ordinance, needs
to develop a personnel management system for identifying, training, attracting
and retaining permanent staff, otherwise it will continue to have morale
problems and recurring vacancies. PARC's career and sa]Lary structure should
include staff at present employed in the provinces on short-term contracts
as part of research grant supported programs. These employment opportunities
are short-term by nature and are not popular in a society demanding maximum
employment security.
2.73      Training Opportunities.  Lack of highly trained personnel is a
direct result of poor prospects associated with the agricultural research
profession and of the relatively small number of overseas training scholar-
ships that are taken up by GOP in comparison to the number offered. Failure
to use scholarships to maximum advantage is caused by pcnderous bureaucratic
procedures for selection of candidates and by the choice of inappropriate
candidates. Shortage of trained personnel will be a constraint on the
development of research capability until GOP has established an efficient
national procedure for selecting candidates for overseas training.
2.74      Technical Supporting Services.  With rare exceptions, a common
feature of Pakistan's agricultural research stations is the inadequacy of
supporting services. Libraries and scientific information services are
below the standards essential to support a viable research effort. Both the
care of libraries and the habit of their use needs to be improved urgently
if Pakistan is to benefit from worldwide progress in agricultural science and
technology. The proliferation of journals on a world scale and the constant
increase in their costs, precludes the maintenance of comprehensive sets of
international journals at small stations. The deficiency is widespread but
could be rectified by the organization of a national research information
service, to supply abstracts and current awareness literature, and micropho-
tographs or other photocopies of requested articles.
2.75      Another supporting service which is notably deficient is that of
biometrics and computing. Help in planning experiments, in quantifying obser-
vations of crop growth and in full analysis of yields and of concommitant
measurements should be provided centrally. This will help to upgrade the
standard of field experimentation.
2.76      A serious handicap in laboratories is instrument maintenance.
These difficulties affect not only small stations in rural areas, but also
large organizations. They amount overall to a serious constraint on research
progress in Pakistan. A central service for instrument maintenance, with a
small fund in overseas currency to permit the prompt ordering of spares by
airmail, would contribute substantially to agricultural research progress in
Pakistan.



- 20 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The project has three basic objectives:
(a) accelerate the implementation of the institutional reforms
needed to provide Pakistan with the quality agricultural
research it requires to exploit its considerable production
potential;
(b) provide federal and provincial institutes with the physical
and human resources needed to plan, coordinate, support and
conduct research programs of high priority; and
(c) provide training and technical assistance.
3.02      The project would be managed by PARC which, together with NARC,
would be the principal beneficiary, receiving about 59% of project invest-
ments.  Project funds for investments in research to be carried out by pro-
vincial institutions, 19% of project investments, would be chanelled through
PARC, as would the investments for training and technical assistance; that
constitute the remaining 22% of project costs. The project would be carried
out over a period of five years; details of the organization and management
arrangements of the project are given in Chapter V.
3.03      The project would constitute the first step in a longer term program
to improve agricultural research in Pakistan. It would concentrate on develop-
ing the capabilities of PARC and NARC in order that they can provide the
strong federal leadership that is required to obtain the full cooperation of
the provincial research systems and to permit the coordination of the national
research effort. With this achieved, a second stage project to increase
the research capabilities of provincial institutions would be a logical future
development.
B. General Description
3.04      Institutional Reforms:  These would be implemented under the project
as conditions of IDA financial support. They would address the issues identi-
fied by the international review team (para 1.02) and be in line with the
recommendations contained in the team's report. These recommendations were
discussed and agreed with GOP in October 1979 during project identification
and were subsequently approved by the Provinces and the Federal Government at
an Inter-Provincial meeting held on November 6, 1979.
3.05      GOP has already taken steps to implement the recommendations by
establishing ARD and by making provision for the appointment of an additional
full-time member of PARC Executive Board. The revised PARC ordinance will be
the mechanism for affecting additional improvements, by increasing PARC's
autonomy, allowing increased funds to flow to PARC and allowing PARC to



- 21 -
develop a personnel management system under which staff can be offered perma-
nent positions, increased salaries and attractive career prospects. Currently,
most PARC staff are on secondment from other federal and provincial agencies.
Instability has resulted from the ever present possibility of the recall of
seconded staff to their original employers and has been a constraint to the
development of an efficient staff structure. The revised PARC ordinance as
approved by GOP enables PARC to function adequately as an autonomous agency
(para 2.08).
3.06      Because of the allocation of responsibilities between Federal and
Provincial Governments under the Constitution (para 2.01), several aspects of
PARC's powers and responsibilities have remained de facto unclear. This was
particularly so in the area of supervision of provincial research that is
federally funded, and in the definition of PARC's role vis a vis the Federal
Government. Important recommendations of the joint review were that PARC
should be given full responsibility for federal action in the generation of
improved technology in agriculture, and it should also be required to act as
technical adviser to ARD and appraise any proposal for new research initia-
tives requiring federal funding. GOP has therefore recently decided that:
(a)  PARC appraisal and approval would be necessary for all new
agricultural research programs in Pakistan requiring finan-
cial support directly from the Federal Government; and
(b)  PARC would be appointed technical adviser to the University
Grants Commission to provide guidance on the award of grants
for agricultural research.
3.07      PARC provides a national testing service for new agricultural tech-
nology; primarily for evaluating new crop varieties. This service is part
of the procedure for the release of varieties in Pakistan and provides data
and recommendation on varietal performance to the National Seed Council which
then decides which varieties will be released. The results from the trials
have not always been accepted by provincial authorities for releases within
the Province and there was a danger that varieties with unsuitable traits may
therefore be used. GOP has now decided that the recommendations for the
release of crop varieties emanating from the national yield trials 1/ system
would be accepted by the provinces as the basis for provincial release.
3.08      The ongoing national coordinated research projects and the collabor-
ative research programs (para 2.12) are key features of Pakistan's research
efforts, but adequate and timely funding is not always available (para 2.69).
Clearly, it would be counter-productive to commence new research under this
project without ensuring adequate provisions for the on-going priority
research efforts. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOP would
continue financial support for the coordinated research projects, the colla-
borative research programs and the associated plant science research at NARC,
at adequate levels. Assurances were also obtained that an annual statement
1/   At present, only variety trials with wheat are being conducted, but GOP
intends to extend the trials system to other crops.



- 22 -
of planned expenditure, a summary of budgetary proposals and actual alloca-
tions and expenditures would be forwarded to IDA before March 1 of each year.
C. Project Components
3.09      Staff provided under the project for PARC, NARC and CDRI would be
incremental to the sanctioned staff lists of these institutions. Key staff
necessary for the efficient operation of PARC were appointed before negotia-
tions (Annex 3). During negotiations a timetable for filling all other
vacancies was agreed, which enables all to be filled before December 31, 1981.
3.10      The salary scales which will be authorized by PARC under its new
ordinance have been used in computing incremental staff costs to be funded by
the project. The proposed PARC scales are between 10% and 20% above compar-
able GOP scales for professional grades and with the other perquisites would
provide necessary incentives to attract qualified staff to fill the posts
created under the project.
3.11      In summary, the project would comprise:
(a) strengthening PARC as a national apex research coordinating
agency by providing:
(i)  a headquarters secretariat building; and
(ii)  incremental staff and facilities for PARC for deal-
ing with financial planning, procurement, audit,
accounts, training, technical assistance, personnel
management, and supervision of construction of
civil works;
(b)  strengthening PARC's ability to provide specialized
assistance to research agencies and workers by estab-
lishing service units for:
(i) collection, publication and dissemination of research
information; and
(ii) maintenance and repair of laboratory equipment.
(c) strengthening the capability of NARC and other research
institutions by developing the research station at NARC
and supporting research program development in:
(i) plant sciences;
(ii) animal sciences;
(iii) cereal diseases;



- 23 -
(iv) oilseeds;
(v) agricultural engineering; and
(vi) agricultural economics.
(d) supporting agricultural research subprojects conducted
by non-PARC research agencies;
(e) funding overseas and local training to the M.Sc and Ph.D levels
for research workers, as well as short term career development
courses;
(f) funding long and short-term technical assistance in management
techniques and technical research program development; and
(g) conducting a mid-term review of project progress.
3.12      Detailed research programs to be supported under the project have
already been designed following a complete analysis of ongoing efforts.
Details of both current and future programs are given in Project File, Items 4
to 9 and all staff, civil works, operating expenses and equipment needs have
been estimated on the basis of the needs of these programg.
D. Detailed Features
Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
3.13      Infrastructure.  To enable PARC staff to be housed in a single
building and to provide the necessary facilities for it to operate effectively
as the national agricultural research coordinating agency, a headquarters
secretariat building would be constructed at a site to be provided by GOP.
The building would provide about 50,000 sq ft of space. A site has already
been identified in Islamabad, on an area set aside for the location of
research institutions.
3.14      The headquarters building would provide office space for 270 staff
members (including about 90 scientific and professional administrative staff),
an auditorium for 250, committee meeting rooms, a small library (linked to the
main library at NARC), a cafeteria and facilities for car parking, maintenance
and watchmen. Housing for 6 key staff would be constructed according to GOP
designs and regulations, which are satisfactory to IDA, on sites to be provided
by GOP in Islamabad. Rental housing in Islamabad is both difficult to find
and expensive and housing would be offered as part of the incentive package to
attract high quality staff to PARC.
3.15      The design and layout of the PARC building and site would be prepared
by a firm of consultant architects with qualification andl experience satisfac-
tory to IDA and the final design would be subject to approval by IDA. The



- 24 -
supervision of construction would be through the PARC Civil Engineering
Unit which would be suitably strengthened (para. 5.05).
3.16      Administrative Support.  The present PARC staff would be inadequate
for the enlarged program envisaged under the project and incremental staff
positions would be funded by the project in following units/sections; Project
Implementation, Procurement, Training and Technical Assistance Support,
Secretariat and Chairman's Office. Details are in paras 5.04 to 5.12.
3.17      Technical Support.  The problems of inadequate library facilities
for agricultural research workers and in maintaining expensive equipment were
highlighted in the Agricultural Research Subsector Review. 1/ These problems
would be addressed under the project by establishing new PARC support units.
3.18      A Research Information Unit would be set up by PARC which would be
equipped for dissemination of information, data storage, data retrieval, pub-
lication and publicity. A total of 13 senior staff together with the neces-
sary support staff, vehicles and documentation equipment would be provided
(Annex 9, Table 4). The Unit would have access to the library. at NARC and
maintain contact with the better equipped libraries in other institutes and
universities. It would supply abstracts, current awareness literature and
copies of requested articles, and also provide back-up services for PARC's
research planning and monitoring functions.
3.19      A Laboratory Equipment Maintenance and Repair Unit would provide a
central service for instrument maintenance and repair. A ready supply of
spare parts would contribute substantially to agricultural research by keeping
laboratory equipment in operation. Offices (500 sq ft), air-conditioned
laboratories and a workshop (1,400 sq ft) would be provided at NARC together
with the necessary vehicles, workshop equipment, engineering staff, mechanics
and technicians (Annex 9, Table 5).
3.20      Civil Engineering Unit.  Design and supervision of the buildings
will be the responsibility of the consulting architect/engineer. In order to
protect its interests, PARC would require a strengthened Civil Engineering
Unit (CEU) which would monitor progress and use of materials. An executive
engineer, three overseers and support staff would be added to the existing
unit which would also be provided with vehicles, office equipment and operat-
ing expenses (Annex 9, Table 6). CEU would be responsible for the maintenance
of PARC and NARC buildings provided under the project, most of which would be
arranged on a sub-contract basis.
3.21      Cereal Diseases Research Institute (CDRI).  Because of its altitude
and resulting cool climate which permits the efficient operation of greenhouse
facilities, CDRI at Murree is an ideal site for developing new facilities for
disease research on wheat, maize, barley, sorghum and triticale.
1/   Pakistan Agricultural Research Subsector Review 2901-PAK, May 21, 1980,
pages 12 to 22.



-- 25 -
3.22      Detailed studies would be initiated on the epidemiology of wheat
rust diseases, the role of alternate hosts as foci of infection, the inherit-
ance of rust resistance and factors determining horizontal resistance.
Research on wheat smuts and bunts would be expanded to include determination
of physiological specialization, inheritance of resistance and disease control.
In rice, maize and sorghum, physiological specialization studies would be
conducted on major diseases and effective inoculation techniques developed
for locating sources of resistance.
3.23      Two additional research staff would be provided together with
appropriate support staff. New glasshouse and growth room facilities would be
constructed under the project and necessary equipment, and vehicles provided.
Incremental operating costs would be funded. Details are at Annex 9, Table 9.
Six houses would be provided for essential staff since rental accommodation
is difficult to find in IIurree. Landlords prefer the high seasonal rates
which can be demanded in a cool hill station, to the lower rates obtainable
for permanent occupancy.
National Agricultural Research Center
3.24      Station Development.  NARC is the main research institution of
PARC. It is being developed to provide scientific support for the applied
and adaptive research being carried out at other institutions in Pakistan and
also as the institution where research can be initiated on topics that have
been neglected in the provincial programs.  Development of NARC started under
the USAID project. Some roads, irrigation canals and land levelling, have
been completed and temporary farm and office buildings constructed to permit
research to be started. It is expected that an auditorium, hostel, office
blocks, cafeteria, training center, documentation center and library, 12
housing units and 6 laboratories will be completed under the ongoing USAID
project before July 1981. IDA involvement would be complementary to the
assistance provided by USAID. Station development would be completed under
the project by the provision of the following facilities; irrigation canals
and watercourses (7.5 km), roads (8 km), greenhouses (3,500 sq ft), machinery
and storage sheds (4,000 sq ft), a second hostel and 77 housing units for
essential staff 1/ (Annex 9, Table 3). The provision of housing is essential
to attract quality staff to NARC as suitable rental accommodation is in short
supply in Islamabad.
3.25      Plant Sciences Division.  At present, the staff of the Plant Sciences
Division of NARC consists of a Director, 12 scientists at the SRO and 30 at
the RO level, plus 148 support staff. The aim of the Plant Sciences Division
is to conduct strategic research and generate materiaL and technology to sup-
port other scientists engaged in applied research programs (for instance, in
plant physiology, virology, bacteriology) and to fill gaps in applied research
programs (for instance, production technology for the cooler and rainfed
regions of Pakistan).
1/   This includes 23 housing units for essential animal science staff.  Six
different grades of housing would be provided. Fifty units would be for
junior staff such as laboratory and field assistants.



- 26 -
3.26      Under the project, ongoing research programs would be expanded to
include investigation of drought, cold and salt tolerance in cereals and the
production of new crop varieties specifically for the barani areas. More
research on pulses would be undertaken, specifically on cropping systems,
increasing yield stability under dryland conditions, hybridization, interac-
tion between fertilizer and rhizobium inoculation, and weed control methods.
Forage research would diversify into methods of fodder preservation, seed
production and the evaluation of fodder quality.
3.27      The introduction and testing of germplasm of horticultural crops
would be fully implemented under the project and new initiatives taken on
methods of year-round vegetable production, post-harvest technology, seed
production techniques and cropping systems. Root stocks and propagation
practices in fruit trees would also be standardized. The work on sugar crops
would be expanded to include beet and sweet sorghum for the northern areas,
but the major emphasis would continue to be on the introduction and quarantine
of cane varieties.
3.28      Research in plant physiology would be initiated on problems
of environmental stress on crops, trace element deficiencies and nitrogen
fixation. Research is also required on grain quality in cereals, oilseeds
and legumes and the scientific development of food preservation techniques.
3.29      Losses of nutrients under different cultural practices, availability
of secondary nutrients (magnesium, sulphur) and rate of reduction in soil
organic matter and its relation to cropping and soil management, would
be investigated under the soil and water research program.
3.30      Range management research would be directed towards developing means
of reseeding and managing rangelands, evaluating planned grazing systems and
the effects of improved management on watershed run-off, erosion and wood and
forage production. Surveys would be conducted to determine present methods of
range management and the physical, biological, social and economic implications
of these practices.
3.31      These expanded programs would require the provision of a Director
General at NARC, Directors for soil and water management and range management,
41 additional staff at the SRO level and above, and 61 at the RO level, plus
support staff. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Director
General with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA, and Directors
would be appointed before December 31, 1981. These staff, additional vehicles,
office equipment, incremental operating expenses and farm implements and trac-
tors for that part of the farm to be managed by the Plant Science group will
be provided under the project (Annex 9, Table 7). The laboratory and office
buildings and basic equipment needed for these programs is being made avail-
able under the USAID project.
3.32      Livestock Research Division.  Investment in livestock research has
been disproportionate to the importance of the sector to Pakistan. At NARC, 8
professional and 70 support staff have begun research, and under the project,
this nucleus would be further developed.



- 27 -
3.33      Highest priority would be  given to studying way3 ar.d mt;ms i
increasing output of animal products and providing basic data on vil aige
farm practices.
3.34      Milk production research would require research on seasonal
breeding of buffalo cows and a Jersey-Sahiwal cross-breeding program. The
causes of low levels of buffalo spermatogenesis would be investigated and
methods of reducing costs of artificial insemination in buffalo and cattle
devised, including techniques of bulk frozen semen.
3.35      Pasture and fodder improvement and the planned integration of
livestock production with cropping systems would be studied. Changes in
the balance between crops and livestock production is quickly reflected in
farm incomes, and the optimal combination of many stock and cropping com-
binations would be explored.
3.36      The technique of minimal cost feed formulation promises sub-
stantial cost reductions in milk production. A research program would be
undertaken to analyze the composition of local feeds, provide information
on seasonal feeding practices, estimate feed-input/product-output ratios
and determine the complementarity of different feeds. The production cycle
would be studied, especially in non-irrigated areas, to provide basic produc-
tion parameters and to delineate aspects to be allocated research priority.
3.37      Research in disease control would be on the effect of foot and
mouth disease on work output of draft animals, the relationship of major
diseases to poor calving rates and the causes of ineffectiveness of current
vaccination practices.
3.38      Socio-economic research would be initiated on the acceptability
to the small farmer of dual purpose cattle as replacements to traditional
draft cattle and milking buffalo. Milk marketing and pricing would be
facilitated by the development of a simple method of distinguishing cow from
buffalo milk so that a pricing system could be developed which avoids discri-
mination against cows milk on the basis of butterfat content. Simple fattening
and carcass dissection trials on aged draft cattle which had been fattened for
varying periods would provide data for rational pricing for this type of beef.
3.39      Studies would be undertaken on growth patterns, diseases, hatchery
management and population dynamics of the important fresh water fish species.
3.40      The project would establish two research centers at NARC.  A live-
stock farm center would comprise stock sheds (29,000 sq ft), offices (800
sq ft), dairy (1,000 sq ft), stores and sheds (8,000 sq ft) and about 200
breeding animals (50 Jerseys, 50 Sahiwals, 50 cross-breds and 50 buffalo
cows) plus associated young stock and bulls. A small fattening yard for
some 200 sheep and goats would also be added along with several fish rearing
tanks (Annex 9, Table 8). This center would have prime responsibility for
producing the buffalo bulls and cows required for the study of their reproduc-
tive physiology, and for providing experimental stock for various trials on
the utilization of fodder crops and improved animal feeding. About 160 ha
of irrigated land would be set aside for fodder production.



- 28 -
3.41      A laboratory center (7,800 sq ft) would comprise laboratories for
animal nutrition, disease diagnosis and vaccine evaluation, reproductive
physiology, AI and animal breeding, milk and meat technology and fish biology,
and office accommodation for a Director and 18 animal biologists plus sup-
porting staff. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Director
would be appointed before December 31, 1981.
3.42      Oilseeds Division.  The Nation's requirement for higher domestic
production of edible oil and the present high cost of imports (US$270 M
annually) fully justifies intensified research on oilseed crops and the
establishment of a new Oilseeds Division at NARC.
3.43      More detailed work would be supported on the introduction of new
oilseed crops (safflower, sunflower, etc.), the improvement of soil and water
management practices and cropping system studies (especially under barani
conditions). Quality of oil and protein content of oilseeds and pulses would
be studied with a view to eliminating deleterious compounds and developing
varieties with seeds with increased oil content.
3.44      The Oilseeds Division established at NARC would be established under
the project by the provision of three incremental professional staff, neces-
sary support staff and operating expenses (Annex 9, Table 10). Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Director would be appointed before
December 31, 1981. A new office and laboratory building (5,800 sq ft) would
be constructed and equipped and specific field plot machinery and vehicles
would be provided. Since the analytical laboratory would be fully equipped
for protein analysis it would also cater for the needs of quality assessments
of pulse crops.
3.45      Plant Introduction and Genetic Resources Division.  A new division
for plant introduction and genetic resources would be established. This would
be responsible for coordinating the plant introduction process, arranging
adequate storage of seed, collecting indigenous varieties of crop plants,
maintaining a herbarium for identification, testing new economic crops at
selected substations (Karachi, Quetta, Bahawalpur and D.I. Khan) and assisting
provincial research agencies in the evaluation of new varieties of established
crops.
3.46      Where established connections exist between research workers and
sources of germplasm (e.g., AARI and CIMMYT) the new division would restrict
its activities to recording transactions and providing any needed storage
facilities in order not to hamper an established seed exchange process.
3.47      New offices (6,500 sq ft) and greenhouses (7,800 sq ft) for plant
propagation would be built at NARC. The laboratory building, cold store and
a herbarium are being provided by USAID. Incremental staff required at NARC
and at four provincial introduction sites would include a Director, Deputy
Director, six SRO's (one at each substation) two RO's, and support staff.
These staff, plus necessary vehicles and some small plot equipment needed to
augment that provided by USAID, would be funded by the project. Details are
in Annex 9, Table 11.



- 29 -
3.48      Agricultural Engineering Division.  IRRI support for agricultural
engineering will cease in 1981. GOP has decided to establish a new Agricul-
tural Engineering Division (AED) at NARC to continue the research and deve-
lopment program and to promote the commercialization of designs shown to be
successful under Pakistan conditions. AED would give priority to the testing
and further development of existing equipment and develop new basic designs
only when essential. AED would systematically test equipment being offered
for sale in Pakistan and produce independent comparative performance reports.
During the project period, priorities for research and development would be
given to power tillers, paddy transplanters, multicrop threshers, cereal
harvesters, small tractors and animal drawn implements and to low-cost tube-
well drilling rigs.
3.49      Under the project, permanent offices (9,600 sq ft), workshops
(11,300 sq ft), stores and garages (2,800 sq ft) would be provided, together
with necessary additional vehicles and workshop equipment (Annex 9, Table 12).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a Director, and additional
professional staff would be recruited by GOP under its timetable for filling
staff vacancies (para 3.09). Additional Assistant Engineers and support
staff would be provided under the project and would be posted to each of the
four provinces where units would be established to assist in the testing of
machinery in various zones.
Contractual Research Grant Scheme (CRGS)
3.50      The project would fund a contractual research grant scheme under
which research efforts at non-PARC institutions would be funded. Three types
of activity would be supported. 1/
(i)  Coordinated Research Projects.  These would be generated
by PARC's established system.  Financial support would
be available for the expansion of existing coordinated
research projects and for initiating similar projects on
other commodities or production factors (para 2.12).
(ii)  Research Subprojects.  These would be substantial projects
proposed by individual institutions desiring to establish
national research programs in selected areas. Examples are
given in Project File, item 13, and include research on
poultry, water management, artificial insemination and
inland fisheries.
(iii)  Ad hoc Research Schemes.  These would be relatively small
research programs, aimed mainly at supporting distinguished
and proven scientists proposing to study problems of national
importance.
3.51      All non-PARC research institutions in Pakistan would be eligible
to submit proposals for financing under CRGS. Guidelines for the selection of
1/   In the following text all activities are referred to as "subprojects".



- 30 -
subprojects and terms and conditions that would be attached to the grants are
given in Annex 6 and were agreed with GOP at negotiations. They are based
on existing procedures and are designed to ensure that only priority research
topics are supported that are under the control of competent scientists who
agree to PARC supervision.
3.52      Initially, subprojects supported would be selected from the topics
identified as a result of the review of agricultural research (Annex 1) and an
analysis of GOP policies (para 2.05). Priority would be given to subprojects
which are national in outlook and which merit immediate attention. In the
longer run, priority research areas would be identified in relation to the
national research plan (para 2.05) at present being produced by PARC through
its Status Review Committee 1/ system.
3.53      A subproject on on-farm testing of extension methodology had been
prepared by PARC and was included in the appraisal. It is expected that this
would be executed by provincial extension and research agencies in collabora-
tion with PARC. The concept of research into extension as a multifactorial
management system was developed in Sind and has already been applied to one
district in Punjab. Under the subproject it would be tried in other dis-
tricts in locations suitable for the study of wheat (two districts) rice
and oilseeds. Necessary incremental staff, vehicles, field equipment and
operating costs would be financed under the subproject (Annex 9, Table 13).
Agricultural Economics Research
3.54      Little attention has been paid to economics research in Pakistan and
a substantial strengthening is now required, both at federal and provincial
institutions. As well as having initiated small scale collaborative projects
with research institutes, PARC has identified major areas for a substantial
economics research program. However, it is difficult to recruit economists of
caliber, and because of this staffing constraint, a less ambitious program of
development has to be accepted, concentrating on the provision of an economics
service for research scientists (para. 2.56).
3.55      Under the project, five Agricultural Economics Research Units (AERU)
would be progressively established, one at NARC and the others in the Agricul-
tural Research Institutes at Faisalabad, Tandojam, Peshawar and Quetta. Each
AERU in the provinces would also serve as liaison and expediting office if
difficulties or delays occur in the preparation/processing of applications to
participate in the CRGS. These applications would be from all disciplines
and for all commodities.
3.56      The specific research functions of the AERUs would be:
(i) economic viability of new agricultural technology;
1/   Committee membership includes scientists, extension officers, farmers
and representatives from the private sector.



- 31 -
(ii) identification and measurement of factors restricting
crop yields on farmers' fields;
(iii) economics of input use;
(iv) farm mangement studies;
(v) assistance to other scientists in:
(a) designing experiments; and
(b) the statistical analysis and economic interpretation
of experimental data.
3.57      By the project's end, work programs for all five institutes would be
in operation, subject to the timely completion of a recruitment and training
program to fill 17 professional posts. At Faisalabad, Tarnab and Tandojam, a
Senior Agricultural Research Economist would head each unit, assisted by an
Agricultural Economist (or a Sociologist) and a Biometrician and a Statistical
Assistant, the latter to help in processing and settirLg out data. The amount
of experimental work in Baluchistan is insufficient to justify the appointment
of a statistician. The unit at Sariab would be headed by an Agricultural
Economist with a Ph.D degree assisted by a second Agricultural Economist and a
Sociologist. NARC's unit would be larger and more flexible in terms of staff
than the others and would provide in-service training.
3.58      Fully furnished office accommodations would be provided (1,140
sq ft at NARC and 760 sq ft at each of the other four locations) on land
owned by the respective Institutes.   Equipment and vehicles, including a
programmable calculator would be purchased for each AERU (Annex 9, Tables 14
to 19). As a necessary inducement for high grade personnel, provision would
be made under the project for the construction of houses for senior staff at
all locations except NARC. 1/ Rentable housing is either not available, as at
Tandojam and Peshawar, or only available at very high rents, as at Faisalabad
and Quetta. GOP would be responsible for the cost of purchasing land on
which to build.
Manpower Development
3.59      A training program would be initiated under the project to help
overcome the constraint of staff shortages (para. 2.30). Training to the
Ph.D and M.Sc levels would be provided at both overseas and the Pakistani
Institutions. Short-term career development courses for more senior estab-
lished scientists would be offered at the international and other overseas
research institutes. These would include courses in research administration
as well as technical matters. It is expected that 38 PhD courses would be
offered in plant sciences, 18 in animal sciences, six in agricultural economics
and three in agricultural engineering. Of a total 142 Ph.D and M.Sc courses
1/   At the discretion of PARC, one or two staff houses may be allocated for
economics staff, from the 77 to be constructed at NARC.



- 32 -
expected to be funded under the project, it is estimated that about one-third
would be at Universities in the USA and two-thirds at local and other overseas
universities. The courses would be selected in response to the needs of the
research programs including those under control of the provinces. Details
are given in Annex 9, Tables 20 and 21.
Technical Assistance
3.60      About 20 man-years of technical assistance would be commissioned by
PARC under the project. Most would be short-term in nature and be employed to
assist PARC in the development and review of specific research programs.
Eight man-years would be commissioned for long-term assistance to PARC in:
(a)  establishing and assisting the proposed AERUs (2 man-years);
(b)  designing and implementing the subproject for the on-farm
testing of extension packages (2 man-years);
(c)  assisting PARC in establishing its research administration
procedures (2 man-years);
(d)  establishing AED (2 man-years).
3.61      Terms of reference (TOR) for long-term consultants would be agreed
with IDA before contracts are finalized.
Mid-term Review
3.62      A mid-term review of the progress of the project would be conducted
in Project year 3. The review would concentrate on assessing progress towards
attaining technical objectives and the aims of agricultural research. The
relationship of PARC to the provinces and the effects of this on the implemen-
tation of CRGS would also be reviewed. The mid-term review would be the basis
for the design of any subsequent agricultural research project. At negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that TOR and composition of the review team
would be agreed with IDA before July 31, 1983. Draft TOR are provided in
Project File, Item 12.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      Total project costs over a five-year period are estimated at
US$40.0 M equivalent. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$17.8 M, about 44% of the project cost. Costs include duties and taxes
estimated at US$3.3 M. Physical contingencies of 15% are included on all
civil works, 10% on all equipment and 5% on operating costs. The project
would require about 20 man-years of consultancy services at an estimated total



- 33 -
cost of US$2.7 M. The average man-month costs for local consultants is
estimated at US$1,000 and for overseas consultants at US$9,500, including
salary, reimbursables and international travel.
4.02      Price contingencies have been applied in accordance with current
Bank estimates of expected inflation rates for PakistaLn (1981 - 9.0%, 1982 -
8.0%, 1983-85 - 7.0%). for both local and foreign costs and compounded
accordingly. Total contingencies amount to about 20% of project costs.
Project costs are based on findings at appraisal updated to December 1980.
Details in Annex 9, Table 1 are summarized below:



-34-
Summary of Project Costs by Components
Rs Million                     US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total
PARC
Administration             24.58      7.77    32.35         2.48     0.79      3.27
Research Information        7.70      4.62    12.32        0.78      0.46      1.24
Lab. Equipment Main-
tenance                 2.30      1.34      3.64       0.23      0.14      0.37
Civil Engineering Unit    5.81        1.46      7.27       0.58      0.15      0.73
NARC
Station Development        12.49      5.36    17.85         1.26     0.54      1.80
Plant Sciences             40.37    11.92    52.29         4.08      1.20      5.28
Animal Sciences            14.59      8.60    23.19         1.47     0.87      2.34
Plant Introduction          7.99      2.16    10.15        0.81      0.22      1.03
Oilseeds                    5.05      2.76      7.81       0.51      0.28      0.79
Cereal Oilseeds             2.41      1.49      3.90       0.24      0.15      0.39
Agric. Engineering          7.76      3.56    11.32        0.78      0.36       1.14
Agric. Economics Unit    13.95        5.41    19.36         1.41     0.55       1.96
Contractual Res. Grants  27.00    18.00    45.00           2.73      1.82      4.55
Training                    0.98    47.57    48.55         0.10      4.80      4.90
Technical Assistance         1.28    19.96    21.24        0.13      2.02      2.15
Mid-term Review             0.10      0.59      0.69        0.01      0.06      0.07
TOTAL BASE COST -         174.36   142.57   316.93         17.60    14.41    32.01
Physical Contingencies    8.67        5.40    14.07         0.88      0.54      1.42
Price Contingencies        37.54    27.96    65.50         3.80      2.82      6.62
TOTAL PROJECT COST        220.57   175.93   396.50        22.28    17.77    40.05
Summary of Project Costs by Expenditure
Civil Works                47.07    20.18    67.25         4.75      2.04      6.79
Vehicles                     1.80      1.19     2.99       0.18      0.12      0.30
Field Equipment             2.17      6.19      8.36       0.22      0.62      0.84
Lab Equipment               2.70      2.39      5.09       0.27      0.24      0.51
Other Equipment             3.08      1.34      4.42       0.31      0.14      0.45
Incremental Staff          73.92       -       73.92       7.47       -        7.47
Incremental Operating    14.26    25.16    39.42           1.43      2.55      3.98
Contractual Res. Grants  27.00    18.00    45.00           2.73      1.82      4.55
Training                    0.98    47.57    48.55         0.10      4.80      4.90
Technical Assistance        1.28    19.96    21.24         0.13      2.02      2.15
Mid-term Review             0.10      0.59      0.69       0.01      0.06      0.07
TOTAL BASE COST -         174.36   142.57   316.93        17.60    14.41    32.01



- 35 -
B. Proposed Financing
4.03      Financing to cover total net project costs of Rs 396 M (US$400C -,
including contingencies, would be provided as follows:
Other
Technical                 Development
Assistance    Training         Costs       Total    % of Total
-------------- - ---- US$ M-----------
GOP              -            -             16.0       16.0          40
IDA            2.7           6.0           15.3        24.0          60
Total           2.7          6.0           31.3        40.0         100
4.04      The proposed IDA credit of US$24 M would be to GOP on standard
terms and conditions and would finance 65% of net project cost including all
foreign exchange costs and 28% of local costs. GOP would finance the remain-
ing net costs of US$16.0 M which includes an estimated US$3.3M in taxes and
duties. IDA funds would be channeled to PARC in accordance with GOP standard
arrangements for IDA assisted projects. An assurance was obtained at nego-
tiations that PARC would submit for IDA review annual budgetary proposals for
project activities, before March 1 of each year. A PC. 1 consistent with this
report has received anticipatory approval by ECNEC. 1/
4.05      In order to ensure an early start to the project, retroactive
financing of about US$0.2M is recommended for expenditure incurred after
October 1980 for preparation of plans, specifications and drawings for major
civil works items.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.06      The main items to be financed with the proposed IDA credit are:
vehicles, civil works, farm machinery, laboratory equipment, office equipment
and furniture, training, technical assistance and salary costs of incremental
staff added under the project.
4.07      Civil Works.  All major civil works, estimated to cost a total of
US$6.4 M equivalent, for PARC and NARC in Islamabad would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines. Other civil works which would be relatively small and/or geographically
scattered would not be suitable for ICB; contracts would be let under local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA.
4.08      Equipment.  Farm equipment, livestock and vehicle requirements would
be bulked whenever possible and contracts above US$50,000 equivalent would be
procured by ICB in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Contracts which
1/   A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma Number one) is an outline of the
project and project costs necessary for GOP approval procedures.



- 36 -
cannot be grouped into purchases of US$50,000 equivalent, and specialized
laboratory and research materials and equipment, would be procured by limited
international tendering.
4.09      All procurement would be arranged through the PARC procurement unit
(para. 5.07).
4.10      Disbursement.  Disbursement under the credit would extend over five
years and would be against:
(a) 80% of contractual payments for civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
furniture and vehicles or, in the case of locally manufactured
items, 100% of ex-works prices;
(c) 50% of expenditures for imported equipment locally procured;
(d) 100% of foreign and local expenditures for training and
technical assistance;
(e) 70% of total cost of contractual research subprojects; and
(f) 27% (average) of expenditures on incremental staff schemes on
a declining basis; 50% of expenditures in FY1982 and 25% in
FY1983 and thereafter.
4.11      Disbursements would be made against full documentation except for
(f) above for which disbursements would be against certified consolidated
statements of actual expenditures. The documents supporting statements of
expenditure would not be submitted for IDA review but would be retained by
GOP. These documents would be made available for inspection by IDA during
review mission.
4.12      Disbursements for contractual research subprojects would be at six
monthly intervals and be against the advances made by PARC to cooperating
agencies.
Accounts and Audit
4.13      PARC and the cooperating agencies would maintain separate records
and accounts for the project. Under the revised ordinance PARC's accounts
are to be audited by private firms. Auditors employed by PARC would make field
inspections of subproject and Agricultural Economic Research Unit accounts.
Institutions participating in the Contractual Research Grant Scheme would be
required, as a condition of participation, to give an undertaking that these
auditing arrangements would be accepted.
4.14      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that during the project
period a certified copy of PARC's accounts and financial statements and the
detailed auditor's reports would be submitted to IDA within six months follow-
ing the end of a financial year.



- 37 -
Impact on Government Budget Funding
4.15      GOP's commitment to improved agricultural reslearch and PARC's central
coordinating role implies provision by GOP of a substantially higher level of
funds annually to operate PARC and its related research programs. Out of
MINFA's Rs 785 M annual non-development budget allocation for 1980/81, Rs 22 M
was for PARC operations. Beginning next financial year (1981/82) under its
agreement with USAID, GOP will incorporate into non-development funding the
annual costs of the cooperative research projects (Rs 22.0 M), the operations
of NARC (Rs 6.5 M) and the yearly level of Rs 20 M for collaborative research
projects. 1/
4.16      At the completion of the proposed IDA financed project, GOP will
continue to ensure payment of the salaries and operating costs of incremental
staff and also maintain and replace civil works and equipment financed under
the project. In constant 1980 prices, this is expected to amount to Rs 38.1 M
annually. The precise source or method of funding these future incremental
operating costs are uncertain, so at this stage, it is impossible to assert
that the necessary funds would be available. However, PARC estimates that
under the new ordinance as proposed, the cess fund would have amounted to
Rs 40 M this year instead of the usual annual estimate of about Rs 6.0 M,
so it could be expected that the project-induced increase in PARC's annual
operating cost should not pose serious difficulties.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      PARC would manage the project reporting to MINFA through ARD of
which the Chairman PARC is head. PARC is an autonomous organization with
the necessary legal powers to do so.
5.02      The Chairman of PARC is its Chief Executive, Chairman of its Execu-
tive Board, and responsible for the administration of the policy decisions
taken by the Council. The chairman has adequate powers to assume overall
responsibility for project implementation. PARC administration would be
strengthened in strategic areas to facilitate the efficient implementation,
operation, monitoring and evaluation of project components. In particular,
incremental staff and facilities would be provided for financial planning,
audit, accounts, procurement, civil works supervision and planning.
5.03      Each member of the Executive Board (MEB) would plan, coordinate,
supervise and guide activities in the relevant sections of PARC. Because
of the project, the workload of MEB would be substantially increased. PARC
already has plans to split the responsibilities of the Member Plant Sciences
into Plant Sciences and Natural Resources, and to appoint an additional MEB
to be responsible for the additional topic. With its membership increased to
five, the Executive Board should be able to carry out its responsibilities.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this additional MEB would be
appointed before December 31, 1981.
1/   Supported through fiscal year 1980 by PL 480 funds.



- 38 -
The Project Implementation Unit
5.04      The five MEB would constitute a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
with one MEB appointed chairman. The secretary for the unit has already been
identified and an additional Senior Programs Officer, Data Analyst and support
staff would be provided. This unit would be responsible for the day-to-day
implementation and operation of the project and would monitor and evaluate
progress continuously in terms of key indicators and targets. Reports would
be collected from the agencies involved in implementing project components and
would be consolidated into quarterly reports for forwarding to IDA.
Supervision of Construction
5.05      The supervision of project civil works both at PARC, NARC and AERUs
and also any which may be required under CRGS, would be the responsibility
of the project's Executive Engineer who would be head of the Civil Engineering
Unit (CEU) of PARC, and report directly to the PARC Chairman. CEU staff would
be increased by three Assistant Engineers and three Overseers to permit it to
handle satisfactorily administrative work associated with building contracts,
supervision of construction and certificates of acceptance of final work.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the additional Engineers and
Supervisors would be appointed before September 30, 1981.
5.06      CEU would not employ skilled artisans or laborers and therefore
to ensure satisfactory maintenance of buildings, including those at CDRI and
AERU's, CEU would engage suitable engineering, construction or maintenance
organizations to carry out necessary work on a contractual basis.
Procurement
5.07      The PARC procurement section, under the Secretary of PARC, would be
strengthened by the addition of two Procurement Officers and a Stores Account-
ant, and would arrange procurement packages, specifications, tender documents
and bid evaluations both for PARC and NARC and for CRGS. PIU would be kept
constantly informed of progress of procurement.
Training and Technical Assistance Support
5.08      The PARC Training and International Liaison Unit would be enlarged
by the provision of five senior staff to enable it to provide adequate
support for:
(a)  the selection of candidates for training, their placement
at overseas universities, monitoring trainee performance
and servicing trainee needs while in training, and
(b)  recruitment and supporting consultant needs within Pakistan
in terms of salary payments, visas, housing, transport and
administrative assistance.



- 39 -
Secretariat and Chairman's Office
5.09      A Personnel Officer and two Assistants would be added in order to
assist the Chairman and to implement the personnel management scheme which
will result from the revised PARC ordinance.
Financial Management Services
5.10      The Financial Management Services (FMS) of PARC under the Member
Finance would be established by redeploying existing staff and adding 13 new
accounting and auditing staff which would include two Deputy Directors to
head the internal Audit and Accounts Units of NARC. Assurances were obtained
that a suitably qualified head of FMS would be appointed before September 30,
1981.
5.11      New units would be established for internal audit, financial plan-
ning and NARC inventory control. PARC would handle all consolidated accounts
and control the overall budgets of NARC and other PARC Institutes. FMS would
be responsible for preparing financial reports and plans and for the annual
statements of accounts for external auditing.
5.12      PARC has already recognized the need to install an improved account-
ing system to cope with the increased volume and complexity of its operations.
A new accounting system whose salient features are described in Annex 4 is
now being introduced and assurances were obtained at negotiations that PARC
would fully implement this new system with assistance from locally recruited
consultants before December 31, 1982.
Contractual Research Grant Scheme
5.13      PARC would act as trustee for funds to be allocated for the support
of subprojects, ad hoc research programs and coordinated research projects to
be executed by the universities and provincial institutions. The aim of the
CRGS would be to fill research gaps for which funds are not available. The
procedures for the preparation, review and approval of subprojects would be
based on those established by PARC. Outlines of the procedures agreed at
negotiations are given in Annex 6.
5.14      For an approved subproject, a PC.1 form would be initiated and tech-
nically completed by the office of the Executive Board Member responsible
for the discipline under which the subproject falls. The financial planning
of the project would then be coordinated with FMS and the latter would finalize
the PC.1 form and be responsible for its further processing. Subprojects up
to Rs 5.0 M will be approved by PARC. Subprojects costing more than Rs 5 M
require final approval by the CDWP (subprojects below Rs 20 M) or ECNEC
(projects above Rs 20 M). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
first five subproject proposals and all those over Rs 10 M would be sent to
IDA for review before final approval.
5.15      The technical guidance and day to day administration for the approved
subproject would be provided by the Director of the Institute concerned.
Accounts and audits would be the responsibility of PARC.



- 40 -
5.16      FMS would arrange for the inclusion of the subprojects in the annual
development program of GOP and the provision of funds for the following years.
Funds provided for the subproject would be 100% additional to the budgets of
the institutions concerned.
5.17      Funds would be released to the implementing institutions by PARC
according to existing arrangements, i.e., 75% of the annual allocation as
soon as the subproject is approved and 25% during the final quarter; then
quarterly, on a reimbursable basis.
5.18      In addition to the subprojects which were identified during the
research review, i.e., water management, poultry, artificial insemination,
range management and inland fisheries, additional research subprojects would
be directed towards the priorities outlined in the National Agricultural
Research Plan. This plan is therefore essential for the efficient functioning
of the scheme and assurances were obtained at negotiations that the plan would
be forwarded to IDA for review before June 30, 1982.
Agricultural Economics Research Units
5.19      The Agricultural Economics Research Units would operate under the
technical and administrative control of the Director-General of the respective
provincial agricultural research institutes. However, PARC would find all
costs involved in this operation and would produce separate statements for
expenditures suitable for reimbursement purposes. PARC has prepared a colla-
borative work program involving the social and biological scientists for each
location, and would provide technical guidance and undertake critical evalua-
tion of the research work at each location twice a year--after Rabi and Kharif
seasons. The annual evaluation reports would provide the basis for planning
activities for the following year.
PARC Support Services
5.20      PARC support services to other agricultural research institutions
would be provided free of charge. The Research Information Unit would be
responsible for providing requested material, for maintaining professional
linkages with libraries in Pakistan and for locating sources of information.
The Equipment Maintenance and Repair Unit would arrange for its technicians
and mechanics to visit research institutions and if possible complete main-
tenance and repairs on site. More complex machines and difficult repairs
would be brought to the central workshop facilities by the travelling staff
or sent there for repairs by the institution concerned. Each institution
would be visited once each year, with more frequent visits arranged in the
early years of the project.
Training
5.21      The project would fund 65 Ph D degree fellowships; 77 M Sc degree
fellowships and about 85 short-term career development courses which would
be 3-8 months in duration. These fellowships would be allocated on a priority
basis to satisfy the needs of project supported research programs and those of
institutions participating in CRGS.



- 41 -
5.22      Research staff at all institutions would be eligible to participate
in the training program, but training would be initially offered to cover
the major requirements of the research programs supported under the project.
Where possible, arrangements would be made for thesis work to be completed
at research institutions in Pakistan.
5.23      The distribution of the higher degree training courses between the
various institutions and research programs would be the responsibility of
PARC. PARC would select candidates according to a revised and streamlined
selection procedure which has been prepared and which is presently being con-
sidered by both federal and provincial government departments. The previous
procedures were cumbersome and frequently so delayed candidate selection that
places at overseas universities were cancelled. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the revised selection procedures would be approved by GOP
before December 31, 1981. A draft of the proposal is given in Annex 5.
5.24      The placement of trainees and the administration of the training
program would be the responsibility of PARC. When necessary, assistance with
placement, courses of study and servicing trainee needs would be provided by
the contracted consultancy agencies which would provide technical assistance
(para 5.27).
5.25      Short-term career development programs would lbe at the international
and other overseas research institutes and would focus on specialized tech-
niques and information needed to develop research programs in Pakistan.
5.26      PARC would continue to encourage active interaction with provincial
extension and research staff by arranging seminars and workshops on an annual
or ad hoc basis. The PARC secretariat building would be equipped with special
facilities for these meetings.
Technical Assistance
5.27      About 8 man-years of long-term technical assistance and 12 man-years
of short-term consultancy services would be provided under the project. It is
expected that technical assistance for strengthening PARC administrative
services would be provided by local consultancy firms. Other consultants would
be obtained through contracts with appropriate consultancy firms experienced
in employing research personnel abroad. Similar arrangements would be employed
to obtain assistance in arranging training (para 5.24). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that such firms would be employed under TOR and con-
tract conditions acceptable to IDA and that contractual arrangements for the
provision of consultants to assist in research program design would be fina-
lized before September 30, 1981.
5.28      The design and implementation of some research programs and subproj-
ects would require specialized expertise. This would be provided mainly by
short-term visits by consultants employed for the purpose, but if necessary,
some longer term consultants would also be employed.   All consultants would
be available to assist provincial organizations with subproject preparation.
The initial fields in which short-term consultants would be required are
identified in Project File, Item 3.



- 42 -
5.29      Technical assistance provided under the project would complement
that provided by aid agencies such as CIDA, which has agreed to provide con-
sultants for oilseeds research, particularly on safflower, rape and sunflower.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.30       Monitoring of civil works construction would be the responsibility
of the Chairman, PARC, and would be based on quarterly reports prepared by
the Executive Engineer in charge of the CEU and forwarded through PIU. These
reports would include a description of the work planned for the following
quarter. Quarterly reports on procurement would be prepared by the Procure-
ment Section of PARC for PIU. Both reports would be forwarded to IDA each
quarter.
5.31      The overall technical monitoring of the research conducted directly
by NARC and CDRI, and that conducted under CRGS, and by AERUs would be the
responsibility of the PARC Executive Board. The agencies would all provide
quarterly progress reports. Appropriate records would be maintained by the
Research Information Unit (as part of the CAREPLANS and CRISP management
schemes 1/). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that PARC would produce
regularly its annual report and also research plans which would include
revisions of research objectives and proposals for redirecting or initiating
research programs. These reports would be forwarded to IDA for review.
5.32      Each organization participating in CRGS would provide PARC with six
monthly fiscal and technical progress reports on subprojects under its manage-
ment. These would be examined by either the audit section of FMS or the
technical committees and Executive Board as appropriate. In addition, the
Secretary PARC would arrange annual field reviews of subprojects by teams of
distinguished Pakistani scientists selected by the Executive Board. The teams
would interview research workers, inspect the experimental work, examine the
data and published material and discuss any required changes in research
plans. The teams would produce a report on each subproject following the
field review. No funds would be released for the following year in the case
of subprojects for which annual reports had not been received. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that reports of the internal monitoring teams
and quarterly reports would be forwarded to IDA within one month of receipt.
5.33      Mid-term Review.  A mid-term review of all research activities
funded under the project would be commissioned by PARC and conducted by an
internationally recruited team of scientists. About six months of interna-
tional consultancy services are provided under the project for the purpose.
The review team would:
(a) examine the procedure for selection of subprojects and
review the decisions made by the technical committees
and Executive Board;
(b) review the operation of PARC's internal system for moni-
toring research;
1/   Details are given in Project File, Items 1 and 2.



- 43 -
(c)  determine the relevance of the research supported with
reference to the priorities outlined in the National
Agricultural Research Plan;
(d) make on-site assessments of progress of research in
selected areas;
(e) assess the quality of the research conducted and research
workers employed under the project and the relevance of
results likely to be obtained to local farming conditions
and needs of farmers; and
(f) evaluate with assistance from extension personnel and staff
of AERU's the possible and realized impact of the project
on farm yields and economics.
The consultants would produce a report that would include recommendations for
changes in subproject design and identify possible components to be included
in any second phase project.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The yields of major crops and animal products in Pakistan have
remained relatively unchanged over the past decade. Consequently, overall
production of staples is barely keeping pace with population growth. Project
facilitated research would concentrate on problem-oriented programs in critical
areas, some of which have either been relatively neglected in the past or
clearly need intensified research efforts. This includes almost all aspects
of animal sciences, the integration of animal and fodder production, and the
production of oilseeds and foodgrains.
6.02      Because the uncertain nature of research defies averaging between
success and failure, it is impossible to quantify benLefits from agricultural
research in precise terms. Even when research prograLms produce useful tech-
nology, their application depends on the efficiency cif extension and other
supplementary farmer support services, and possible lags in farmer adoption,
increase the scope for error in estimating potential economic benefits.
6.03      Some ex-post evaluations of individual crop research programs in
Latin America yielded rates of return in the range of 35-90% and similar
analyses in USA and other developed countries have given lower, but still
strongly positive results. Studies in India of the effects of the green
revolution yielded internal rates of return between 35% and 112%. All
studies point to an unusually high payoff from applied research in developing
countries, and similar results can be confidently expected in Pakistan.



- 44 -
Institutional Impact
6.04      The project is designed to improve the institutional arrangements
for the planning, monitoring, funding and implementing agricultural research
programs in Pakistan. As the first stage of a longer term program of research
improvement, it would concentrate on in the establishment of a strong federal
agency able to coordinate the nation's research efforts. Benefits would
accrue from the strengthened PARC ability to redirect research from unproduc-
tive areas to those of high priority; the reduction in wastage of valuable and
scarce resources resulting from the rationalization of research efforts and
the elimination of duplication; and improved cooperation between scientists.
Risks
6.05      There is a risk that the results of research conducted under the
project may not be appropriate to farmers' needs or, if appropriate, may not
be conveyed to or used by farmers. The project is designed to minimize this
risk through its rationalization of the procedure for the design of research
programs. These involve work inputs from both extension personnel and
farmers. The staff of PARC are of high calibre and fully aware of the need to
encourage research on farmer problems. The subprojects for on-farm testing of
extension packages and agro-economics research have been designed to provide
research workers with direct contact with both farmers and extension services.
6.06      The project involves provincial institutions only to a relatively
limited extent (para 3.02). If necessary, it could be implemented with
Federal Government support only, but this would be undesirable as further
development of a truly national agricultural research system would require the
cooperation of the provinces. To obtain this cooperation, PARC must clearly
demonstrate its leadership and capability in agricultural research planning,
coordination, evaluation and financing. The project aims to establish PARC
in this role and its standing and power vis a vis the provinces will also be
strengthened (para 3.06). In addition, the provision under the project of
research grants, training opportunities and assistance in agricultural econo-
mics research are incentives for provincial cooperation and for the creation
of a favorable atmosphere in which greater provincial cooperation would be
forthcoming for the design and implementation of subsequent, more provincially
oriented investments in agricultural research.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the Association and GOP agreed that:
(a) GOP would provide sufficient funds to maintain ongoing
NARC research programs, the coordinated research proj-
ec_ts and the collaborative research scheme at adequate
levels (para. 3.08);



- 45 -
(b)  Annual statements of planned expenditure, and summaries
of budgeting proposals and allocations would be forwarded
to IDA before March 1 of each year (para 3.08);
(c)  A Director General for NARC (with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA) and Directors for Soil
and Water Management, Range Management, Animal Sciences,
Oilseeds, Plant Introduction and Genetic Resources, and
Agricultural Engineering Divisions would be appointed by
December 31, 1981 (paras 3.09, 3.31, 3.41, 3.44, 3.47
and 3.49);
(d) TOR and composition of the mid-term review team would be
agreed with IDA before July 31, 1983 (para. 3.62);
(e)  PARC would furnish IDA with annual budgetary proposals for
project activities before March 1 of each year (para 4.04);
(f)  Certified copies of PARC's accounts and financial statements
and auditor's reports would be submitted to IDA within six
months of the end of a financial year (para. 4.14);
(g)  An additional MEB would be appointed before December 31,
1981 (para. 5.03);
(h)  Civil engineers and supervisors would be appointed before
September 30, 1981 (para. 5.05);
(i)  A head of FMS would be appointed before September 30,
1981 (para. 5.10);
(j)  The new accounting system would be fully imp:Lemented before
December 31, 1982 (para. 5.12);
(k)  The first five subproject proposals and all ithose costing
more than Rs 10 M would be sent to IDA for review before
final approval (para. 5.14);
(1)  A National Agricultural Research Plan would be forwarded
to IDA for review before June 30, 1982 (para. 5.18);
(m)  The revised selection procedures for trainees would be
approved by GOP before December 31, 1981 (para. 5.23);
(n)  Appropriate consultancy firms would be employed to
provide consultants under TOR and contract conditions
satisfactory to IDA before September 30, 1981 (para.
5.27); and
(o)  Annual reports and research plans would be forwarded
regularly to IDA for review (para. 5.31).
7.02      With these conditions and assurances, the project would be suitable
for a credit of US$24.00 M to GOP on standard IDA terms. Approval of the PC.1
by ECNEC is a condition of credit effectiveness.



-46-
ANNEX 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Major Recommendations from Agricultural Research Subsector Review
2961-PAK, May 21, 1980
1.        The urgently needed increase in Pakistan's agricultural production
will come mainly from improved organization for the application of existing
knowledge. This will depend critically on better adaptive research and on
better diagnostic and technical support for farmers. There is, therefore,
a strong case for a project to strengthen these aspects of agricultural
research and development.
2.        The mission endorses the high priority given for improvement of
agricultural extension services in Pakistan which is already the subject of
two IBRD/GOP projects.
3.        The mission also recognizes the need to improve urgently the tech-
nologies now available for extension and therefore recommends strengthening
the national system for research in renewable natural resources by the design
of investment projects which include or facilitate the following:
(a)  Rationalization of the agricultural research activities of
the federal government by reserving to the appropriate Min-
istries the formulation of national policy for the develop-
ment of renewable natural resources, while allotting to
PARC full responsibility for federal action in the genera-
tion of improved technology for crop and animal production,
fisheries and forestry;
(b)  PARC should be charged with the development, in cooperation
with the provinces, of clearly defined national objectives
and priorities for agricultural research. These objectives
and priorities should be published as the basis for the
allocation of federal funds for support of research;
(c)  New research institutions and other research innovations
which require federal funding should be appraised and
recommended by PARC;
(d}1 P&RC's constitution should be made genuinely autonomous,
granting freedom from the present dependence on several
federal ministries and ability to appoint all staff;
(e)  As an autonomous body, with major responsibilities for
coordination of publicly funded agricultural research
into a national effort, the Council needs authority to
deal directly with the provinces on research matters.



-47-
ANNEX I
Page 2
GOP should take immediate action to authorize this procedure,
since present restrictions are severely impeding research
progress;
(f) PARC should offer career opportunities to able scientists
and salary rates should be comparable with those at the
universities and the Nuclear Institutes for Agriculture
and Biology;
(g) A system of promotion by merit rather than by seniority
should be introduced by provincial research services and
PARC should devise and implement such a system for its
own staff;
(h) PARC should appoint a further three full-time Executive
Members: (i) a member for research in soil and water
management, whose main concern should be the better
integration of agricultural studies with those of
irrigation and drainage; (ii) a member for watershed
management, forestry, rangeland management and arid
lands research; and (iii) a member for fisheries;
(i)  An experienced consultant should be engaged to assist PARC
in streamlining its own internal procedures. These internal
improvements should be given high priority to avoid creation
of administrative delays and to ensure the development of a
responsive organization with a keen sense of service to the
agricultural community;
(j) National research activities have become dependent on the
flow of "PL 480" funds. GOP should continue, without in-
terruption, the provision through PARC of adequate funds
to ensure the present level of agricultura;l research
efforts and make additional arrangements to increase the
future funds available;
(k)  PARC should be responsible for the organization of visiting
groups, drawn, in consultation with the provinces, from
leading scientists throughout the country, to review major
research institutes and programs at suitab:Le intervals;
(1) The Forest Research Institute and the Nuclear Institutes
for Agriculture and Biology established by the Pakistan
Atomic Energy Commission should ultimately become constit-
uent institutes of PARC. Consideration should also be
given to the incorporation of the Cotton Research Institute
of PCCC and the Soil Survey of Pakistan into the national
agricultural research service;



-48-
ANNEX 1
Page 3
(n)  PARC should be authorized to establish a national procedure
for selection of outstanding young scientists for overseas
training and for attendance at overseas seminars and study
groups. After approval of an overseas training agreement
by the Federal Economic Affairs Division of the Ministry
of Finance, the Council should have authority to implement
the agreement without the necessity for reference to other
departments;
(n)  PARC should develop a strong national agricultural research
service with the quality and qualifications to undertake
national coordination and support of provincial research.
PARC should be responsible for providing much-needed tech-
nical supporting services to the provinces for (i) library
and scientific information services, (ii) biometric and
computing services; and (iii) laboratory instrument
maintenance;
(o)  PARC should reinforce selected provincial research centers
to enable them to function as national lead-centers for
particular crops, livestock or commodities;
(p)  The provinces should remain responsible for the verification
and adaptation of technologies, including the breeding of
cereal crop varieties for local conditions, while PARC
should develop and strengthen the national testing schemes
for crop varieties;
(q)  Support should be provided to enable Agricultural Universi-
ties and Agricultural Research Institutes to undertake joint
research programs using the facilities of both organizations;
(r)  In cooperation with provincial authorities, PARC should
establish a network of research units in agricultural
economics at NARC, Islamabad and at the Agricultural
Research Institutes at Faisalabad, Tandojam, Peshawar
and Quetta. Ad hoc investigations by universities and
other organizations should be funded by PARC;
(s)  PARC should play an active role in supporting a coordinated
national research and development program in barani areas
with emphasis on local adaptation of internationally known
technology for agronomic and engineering aspects of inte-
grated crop and livestock production, and conservation of
soil and water;
(t)  PARC should establish new national research institutions
only in those few areas where serious gaps remain in the
existing provision. In order of priority, these are:



-49-
ANNEX I
Page 4
(i) A Marine Fisheries Research Institute;
(ii) The Forestry Research Institute should be reinforced
by strong national units for Range Management and for
Watershed Hydrology;
(iii) A joint development with WAPDA should expand the
highly successful Mona irrigation scheme to provide
more improvement of agricultural aspects of irrigated
crop technology as well as the continued development
of engineering methods of water distribution at the
village level;
(iv) An Institute for Research on the Control of Pests and
Diseases should be assembled from the successful small
research units now operated by PARC, including a rein-
forced Cereal Diseases Research Institute;
(v) A Sugar Research Institute should be set up in close
partnership with the sugar industry;
(vi)  The Zoology Department of Faisalabad Agricultural
University should be reinforced by a strong national
unit for inland fisheries research and training; and
(vii) The AI service organization at Lahore and the Poultry
Research Institute at Karachi should bes strongly
reinforced.



-50-
Annex 2
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Staff of Agricultural Research Establishments
Sr.                                                                                                   Staff
No.                                Name of the Institute                              Ph.D       M.Sc.        B.Sc.      Total
1.     Agricultural Rasearch Institute, Sariab, Quetta, Baluchistan                    3         29           34          66
2.     Agrtcultural Research Institute, Tandojam                                       1         86           44        131
3.     Agricultural Rasearch Institute, Tarnab, Peshawar, NWFP                         5         75          178        258
4.     Animal Husbandry Laboratory, Karachi. Sind                                      -          -            2          2
5.*    Arid Zone Research Institute, Quetta, Baluchistan                              -           8            3         11
6.     Atomic Energy Agricultural Research Center, Tandojam, Sind                    15          25            3         43
7.*    Cereal Diseases Research Institute, Islamabad                                   3         13            6         22
8.     College of Veterinary Sciences, Lahore                                          2         30           11         43
9.     Comeonwealth Institute of Biological Control, Rawalpindi                        4         19            2         25
10.     Cotton Research Institute, Multan                                               4         19           15         38
11.     Cotton Research Institute, Sakrand                                              1         17            6         24
12.     Directorate of Land Reclamation Punjab, Lahore                                  -         15           82         97
13.     Directorate of Marine Fisheries, Karachi                                       -           9           11         20
14.     Directorate of Soil Conservation Punjab, Rawalpindi                             -          9           32         41
15.     Directorate of Wool/Hair and Hutton Production, Punjab, Multan                  -          1           22         23
16.*    Drainage and Reclamation Institute of Pakistan, Latifabad, Eyderabad            -          8            5         13
17.     Faculty of Agriculture, University of Peshawar                                  7         13           46         66
18.     Fine Wool Sheep Farm, Sarai Karishna, Mianwali                                  -          1            2          3
19.     Fisheries Research Institute, Qadirabad, Gujranwala                             1          4            9         14
20.     Institute of Coqton Research and Technology, Karachi                            1         10           24         35
21.     Irrigation, Drainage & Flood Control Research Council, Rawalpindi               1         19            4         24
22.     Irrigation Research Institute, Lahore                                           1         11           21         33
23.     Kamori Goat Farm, Khudabad, Dadu, Sind                                         -           -            2          2
24.     Livestock Development & Research Farm for Kundi Buffalo, Rohri, Sind           -           -            1          1
25.     Livestock Experiment Station, Angora Goat, Muzaffargarh                         -          2            3           5
26.     Livestock Experiment Station, Fazilpur, Dera Ghazi Khan                         -          2            4           6
27.     Livestock Experiment Station, Hasilpur                                          -          1            1           2
28.     Livestock Experiment Station, Jaba, Mansehra, Hazara                            -          -            2           2
29.     Livestock Experiment Station, Karachi                                          -           -            3           3
30.     Livestock Experiment Station, Khairemurat, Attack                               -          2            1           3
31.     Livestock Experiment Station, Khushab                                          -           -            2          2
32.     Livestock Experiment Station, tabisar Road, Tharparkar                          -          -            5           5
33.*    Livestock Experiment Station, Qadirabad, Sahiwal                                -          -            5           5
34.     Livestock Production Research Institute, Bahadurnagar, Okara                    3         12           26         41
35.     Maize & Millet Research Institute, Pirsabadk, Nowshera                          2          7           19         28
36.*    Maize & Millet Research Institute, Yousafwala, Sahival                          2         11           12         25
37.*    National Agricultural Research Center, Islamabad                                1          2            1          4
38.     Nuclear Institute for Agriculture & Biology, Faisalabad                        20         55           17         92
39.     Nuclear Institute for Food & Agriculture, Tarnab, Peshawar                      3         14            8         25
40.*    Oilseeds Research Institute, Faisalabad                                         2         23            6         31
41.     Pakistan Agricultural Research Council, Islamabad                              17         75           52        144
42.     Pakistan Central Cotton Committee, Karachi                                      -          2            -          2
43.     Pakistan Forest Institute, Peshawar                                             5         34           25         64
44.     Pakistan Tobacco Board, Peshawar                                                1         16           23         40
45.*    Plant Protection Institute, Faisalabad                                          1         42            1         44
46.     Poultry Research Institute, Karachi                                            -          12            4         16
47.     Poultry Research Institute, Rawalpindi                                         -           7           39         46
48.     Punjab Agricultural Research Institute, Faisalabad                             18        299          187         iO4
49.*    Rapid Soil Fertility Survey & Soil Testing Institute, Lahore                    1         30           19         50
50.     Red Sindhi Cattle Breeding Farm, Tando Mohamad Khan                            -           -            3          3
51.     Rice Research Institute, Dokri                                                 1          23           10         34
52.*    Rice Research Institute, Kala Shah Kaku                                        4          21           11         36
53.     Sericulture Research Laboratory, Lahore                                        -           2            3          5
54.     Silvicultural Research Division, Hyderabad                                     -           1            4          5
55.     Silvicultural Research Forest Division, Lahore                                 -           1            4          5
56.     Sind Agriculture University, Tandojam                                         16         123           23        162
57,*    Sind Horticultural Institute, Mirpurkhas                                       1           9           13         23
58.     Soil Mechanics & Hydraulics Laboratory, Karachi                                -           1           4           5
59.     Soil Survey of Pakistan, Lahore                                                3          42          26          71
60.     University of Agriculture, Faisalabad                                         95         219           47        361
61*    Vegetable Research Institute, Faisalabad                                       -          33            1         34
62.     Veterinary Research Institute, Lahore                                          1          16           45         62
63.     Veterinary Research lastitute, Peshawar                                        1           7           16         24
64.     Water Quality and Soil Monitoring Directorate, Lahore                          1          38           39         78
65.*    Wheat Research Institute, Faisalabad                                           2          31            3         36
Totals                 233      1,405        1,196      2,834
* Staff numbers not added to total because they are already included under the respective parent establishment.



-5l-~
ANNEX 3
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Key Staff Vacancies to be Filled by GOP at PARC
Director            - Scientific Information
Director            - Range Management and Forestry
Deputy Director     - Fisheries
Deputy Director      - Entomology
Deputy Director     - Crops
Documentation Officer
Deputy Director     - Planning
Deputy Director     - CAREPLANS
Accounts Officer
Transport Officer
Assistant Secretary - Administration



-52-
ANNEX 4
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PARC Accounting Procedures
1.        The administrative manuals dealing with personnel management which
were prepared with assistance from USAID in 1978 have been implemented, but
there has been limited progress developing the proposed accounting systems.
2.        PARC accounting systems are now being formulated.  Under the former
government accounting systems, there were no consistent bookkeeping systems.
At the time of appraisal, only three registers, namely payment register, cash
receipt book and voucher registers (payment and journal) were being installed.
Only funding sources and expenditure accounts ledgers were in use. These
provided adequate data base only for expenditures and income sources.
3.        The most important permanent accounts balances such as accounts
receivable, accounts payable, inventories etc. cannot be shown in the trial
balance under the current accounting systems and, neither the financial posi-
tion nor cashflow requirement can be established. Until a complete financial
system is established, bank reconcilliations will be difficult. No records
of property belonging to the council have been established.
Improvements Required
4.        A change in the accounting practices of PARC is needed for a
continued maintenance of adequate financial records. Under the project
PARC's financial planning capability would be improved and a new accounting
system established which would include:
(a) Establishing a register of all the property type of assets
currently under the custody and application of PARC;
(b) Establishing PARC's past and present financial obligations;
(c) Establishing records of PARC's debtors;
(d) Installing inventory control systems for both PARC and NARC;
(e) lnstalling an effective imprest (petty cash) fund system; and
(f) Establishing a new accounting system based on accruals.



-53-
ANNEX 4
Page 2
5,        Consultants would be hired to assist PARC make the necessary changes.
At the end of the second project year, PARC would possess adequate accounting
procedures for efficient budgeting planning and control.
6.        About 8 man-months of consultants services would be required to
design and implement the new accounting system. However, since PARC audit
for 16 months ending FY79/80 is overdue, an additional three man-months would
be required to close PARC books and carry out a complete audit.



-54-
ANNEX 5
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Procedures for Overseas Training
1.        The list of disciplines and specific subjects in which overseas
training to degree level is to be offered is prepared by committees of spe-
cialists headed by the concerned technical members of PARC and approved by
the Chairman, PARC. The deficiency in trained manpower in various disci-
plines and the future requirements for the planned development programs in
agricultural research are the main considerations in determining the training
requirements.
2.        The procedure for selection of candidates for overseas training
has been streamlined to ensure that only capable, well qualified persons
are selected instead of the provincial nominees selected primarily because
of their seniority in service, rather than competence. The following proce-
dure is followed for the selection of candidates:
(a) The training facilities are advertised in the national press
giving full details about the subjects and minimum qualifi-
cations required. The information is also supplied to the
provincial governments and heads of institutions who are
invited to send applications of suitable candidates;
(b) Previously, the candidate in provincial service could not
apply directly and the provincial government procedures
took a long time to process the nominations before they
reached PARC. Most training opportunities lapsed due to
these delays. The procedure adapted recently enables the
candidates to apply directly, sending an advance copy to
the PARC, while another copy of the application is routed
through various channels in the provincial government. If
the candidate is selected by PARC for training, the inform-
ation is sent to his employer in the provincial government
for concurrence and release of the candidate for training
abroad. Invariably, the provincial governments agree to
the proposals;
(c) Applications received are scrutinized by the Training Divi-
sion in consultation with the concerned technical divisions;
(d) Selection of successful candidates (principal and alternate)
is made by selection committees consisting of project leaders
under the chairmanship of the concerned MEB's;



-55-
AiNNEX 5
Page 2
(e)  Selections are based on uniform criteria giving due weight-
age to academic record, highest level attained and relevant
experience of candidate;
(f)  Due consideration is given to the provincial requirements
in selecting candidates. Preference is given to candidates
from different provinces for training in disciplines espe-
cially requested by the provinces. PARC will endeavor to
meet the provincial requirements for trained manpower by
seconding the trained PARC scientists to the provinces,
wherever possible. This will be in addition to training
the provincial employees in priority areas at the request
of the provinces;
(g)  The selected candidates are approved by the Chairman, PARC
and transmitted by ARD to the Establishment Division for
GOP clearance. Economic Affairs Division (EAD) will give
blanket clearance for the overseas training program under
this project without requiring clearance of individual
candidates. Information about the selected candidates
will however be submitted to EAD by ARD for their
information and record;
(h)  Selected candidates are given an english language course
and take the TOEFFEL test which is required by most US
universities;
(i) Selected candidates may be placed in various universities
with the assistance of various specialized aid or consultancy
services. PARC plans to develop in-house capability to place
candidates in foreign universities with the help of educational
attaches in the Pakistan missions abroad especially in USA and
UK;
(j) The progress of trainees is monitored by the technical divi-
sions and the training division from the regular progress
reports which the trainees have to submit through their
supervisors.



-56-
ANNEX 6
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Guidelines for the Preparation and Approval of Research Subprojects
1.        The procedure for preparation would be:
(a) Status Review Committees (SRC) composed of farmers, extension
agents and scientists would determine, with the help of the
National Agricultural Research Plan, the areas requiring
research for a given commodity;
(b) the Executive Board would approve the recommendation of SRC
for the formulation of subprojects and outline the fields
in which new projects should be formulated;
(c) PARC would solicit proposals from the provincial agencies
considered suitable. The subproject would be prepared by the
provincial organization and universities with the assistance
of the staff of the Agricultural Economics Research Units
(paras. 3.56-3.58) who would be stationed in the provinces.
These staff would also provide liaison between PARC and
organization concerned during project preparation and
implementation;
(d) PARC would arrange for the technical and financial aspects
of the project to be appraised through its appropriate tech-
nical committee system using criteria agreed with IDA at
negotiations. It is expected that the subproject would:
(i)  focus on priority problem areas in the agricultural
sector as defined in the National Agricultural Research
Plan or as outlined in the research review;
(ii) be part of a long-range program of research conducted
at the research institution concerned;
(iii) be provided with basic research facilities and key
investigators by the institution concerned;
(iv) be based on a complete survey of related research,
both on-going and completed, in Pakistan and abroad;
(v)  have outlined adequately, the experimental design
and procedures;



-57-
ANNEX 6
Page 2
(vi) have been prepared in the form prescribed by PARC;
(vii) exclude costs of staff training and technical
assistance;
(viii) request support for subproject expenditures for which
separate accounts could be maintained, for specialized
research equipment and the publication of results;
(ix) would not normally include the cost of civil works
construction;
(x)  be completed in the stipulated time-frame;
(xi) not duplicate other on-going or completed research work;
and
(x)  explicitly agree to PARC's internal monitoring and
evaluation system and accounting and auditing procedures.
2.        The project proposal would be judged by the technical committee and
a recommendation of its acceptance, rejection or revision would be made to
the Executive Board for consideration and approval. The decision of Executive
Board will be notified to the sponsoring organization.
3.        Under GOP regulations, subprojects costing up to Rs 5.0 M can be
approved by PARC. Those costing more than Rs 5 M require final approval
either by CDWP (subprojects below Rs 20 M) or ECNEC (subprojects above
Rs 20 M).



-58-
ANNEX 7
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA                      Quarter                 Cumulative
FY82
1
2
3                        0.2                       0.2
4                        1.6                       1.8
FY83
1                        1.7                       3.5
2                        1.6                       5.1
3                        1.5                       6.6
4                        1.8                       8.4
FY84
1                        2.0                      10.4
2                        2.0                      12.4
3                        1.7                      14.1
4                        1.3                      15.4
FY85
1                        1.3                      16.7
2                        1.3                      18.0
3                        1.2                      19.2
4                        0.9                      20.1
FY86
1                        0.9                      21.0
2                        1.1                      22.1
3                        1.0                      23.1
4                        0.9                      24.0



-59-
Annex 8
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Activity                                       FY    |        Y 82                FY 83                FY84                  FY 85                pY 86
QTR       1   2   3   4        1  2    3   4        1   2   3   4        1   2   3   4        1   2   3   4
1.  PARC/NARC Civil Works                           .                                                                 ______________
Selection of Consultants
Appointment of Consultants                                                                                                           1'
Schematic Design_                                             ll
Design Development
Construction Documents
Bid Documents
Bidding                                                       I _             _                                                      I
Contract Award
Construction (PARC)                                              ______-__________
Defects Liability Period (PARC)                    I
Construction (NARC)                                              _____
Defects Liability Period (NARC)
2.  Vehicles and Equipment
Preparation of lists and layouts           _
Review of Bid Documents                            j
Bidding                               
Contract Award
Manufacturing and Shipping
Delivery, Instalation, Testing                                 _    _        |
Warranty Period
3.  Technical Assistance
Selection of Experts
Appointment of Experts
Expert Service Period
4.  Training
Selection of Fellows                              II
Fellowship Training                                                       ____                                     ._l
5.  Sub-projects                                       I           _
6.  Mid-term Review
Selection of Consultants
Consultants Field Work
Report
Effective Datc Estimate



Annex 9
-60-                                                                   Table I
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SUMMARY0 OP PROJECTCO-STS
(Rs '000)
Year I           Yeae 2            Year 3            Yea-  4           Year 5            Total            Foreign
-- -                      E~~~~~~~xchang«e
PARC
Civil Works
Admivistr-tix-                     6,854.5           9,732.4          4,925.9              -                 -             21,512.8          6,453.R
Lab Equip-exx MaiItenaxce            487.9              -                -                 -                -                 487.9            146.4
Vehilles and mqois=ese
Adeisiseeasixs                       967.0              75.0                     0-                          -              1,042.             302.9
Research rnfotmatlo               1,718.5           1,163.0             -                                   -              2,881.5          I,629.2
Lab EqxIp-ent Main-e.acce            636.9             155.0                      -                          -                 791.n           365.3
Civil Engi.eering                    225.0              60.0             -                                                    285.0            118.0
Ixorenteetal Staff
Ad,lcisseatlxx                     1,374.3           1,693.3          1,759.9            1,759.9          1,759.9           8,347.3              -
Research lafoer.atlxx                692.8           1,116.2           11 16.0               6.0         1,116.0            5,156.8
Lab Eqaipse.I Mal-e-a,ce            160.6             254.8            254.8              254.8           254.8            1,179.8
Cixii Ingleerlng                     253.6             430.3            539.5              569.5            587.5           2,380.4
Incre=ental Baildiog M.asinenaee
Cimil EOgi.e..lag 11                   -                 -              583.7            1,390.9         1,792.7            3,767.3            753.5
1x-e-e-etal Opteting - Other
Admiristratian                       370.0             440.0            212.5              212.5           212.5            1,447.5          1      ,03.3
Reseaeeh InFovlarsal                 898.0             954.0            781.0              795.0           849.0            4,277.0          2,993.9
Lab Equip-eet lainteaane             195.0             180.0            260.0              270.0           280.0            1,185.0            829.5
ClxiI Etgi-nerixg                    168.0             168.0            168.0              168.0           168.0              840.0            588.0
ANRC
Cimil W-xke
Statia D-evlxpm.eat                2,771.5           7,586.3           5,883.2           1,608.1              -            17,849.1          5,354.7
AaiOail S8eeces                    6,495.6           3,412.3              -                -                                9,897.9          2,969.4
Pleat Introdaccixn                   501.1           2,354.9                      -                           -             2,856.0            856.8
Oilseeds                           1,836.0              -                 --                                                1,8360             550.8
Cereal llteases                      502.3             219.3              -                                   -               726.6            218.0
Agricultaral Enginasr-ig           1,412.8           3,170.2             304.1             -                 -              4,887.6          1,466.3
Fiald/Werkehep Eqoipeent
Plant Soisnces                     1,081.0           1,260.0             401.0             300.0             75.0           3,117.0          2,493.6
nimal Sciesees                     1,114.0              --                                                    -             I,114.0            891.2
Plant Ixtrads-tixn                   185.5              46.5               -                                  -               232.0            185.6
Oilseeds                             209.0              -                  -                 --                               209.0            167.2
Aglieoltaral Enginesriog              165.5          1,007.2            605.0               40.0              -             1,817.7            827.1
Lab-tralry Egaip=est
AisSal Sciences                      995.0              -                  -                                                  995.0            497 5
P1axt Itr-daxtin                     46.5              -                                                                      46.5             23.2
Oilseeds                               -               480.9             250.0               -                -               730.9            365.5
Cereal liseasas                      962.7             180.0               -                                 -              1,142.7            571,3
Vehielet and Oth-r Equip=ent
Plect Neieao-s                        59.0             769.0             350.0               -               -              1I778.0            549.7
Aeial Seesee    2/                  135.5           1,220.0               -                                 -              1,355.3            928.7
Plast Isreads-ti-                   156.5             112.0                        -                        -                268.5             78.6
Oilseeds                             125.9             217.0              12.0              -                -                354.9             97.4
Cereal   saDises.                    254,5              -                  _                                                  254.5            101.8
Agrialraral Engi-eerixn              58.4             574.6              75.0              -                -                708.0           255.0
loesalStaff 
Plaet Sci--ces                     3,672.1           6,160.7           7,824.2          8,344.9          8,723.4           34, 725.3             -
asimal Sotei ees                     484.5             715.9           1,115.8          1,386.4          1,386.4            5,389.0
POset Iatsottc                       480.4           1,175.4           1,211.8          1,211.8          1,211.8            5,291.2
OiI.ee.d                             302.9             498.8             498.8            498.8            498.8            2,298.1              -
Cersal Diseases                       18.2             130.3             218.2             221.2           284.9              872.8
Agrilelt-al Egi-eeJig                 -                616.8             616.8             616.8           616.8            2,467.2
lnceFesmeal leeratisg
Plast Sofeare                      2,434.0           2,667.0           2,616.0          2,541.0          2,416.0           12,674.8         8,871.8
Animal S1etces                       265.0             685.0           1,010.0          1,385.0          1,398.0            4,795.0         3,314.5
Plat Ocedoaiaa                      259.0             296.0             301.0             301.0           301.0            1,438.0         1,020.6
S .lteed.                            412.0             437.0             507.0             512.0           512.0            2,380.0          1,576.0
Cereal liesases                      120.0             143.0             197.9             211.5           229.5              901.9            594.9
Agrlitautral OsglxeE eaIg             -                360.0             360.0             360.0           360.0            1,440.0          1,008.0
AERU.  - Ageicultaral oeto-i Re      -htearch
Clviil Neks                          931.0          3,283.3            1,941.2           1,044.2            -              7,199.7           2,159.9
Vehicles cad Eqxlpmeat               401.0            540.0              229.0             470.0            88.0           1,728.0             662.2
xcreaemetal Staff                    778.0          1,052.5            1,222.8          1,428.8          1,635.6           6,117.7
larezemecal Opaeatlsg                200.8            290,0              779.9           1,328.8         1,720.8           4.319.5          2,591.7
CONTRACTUAL RES4ARCH GRANTS        3,000.0          5,000.0           10,000.0          12,000.0        15,000.0          45,000.0          18,000.0
TRAINING                          10,591.2         16,142.4           11,734.2          6,346.8          3,73Z.3          48,546.9         47,576.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               6,403.0          6,283.0            2,319.0          3,623.0          2,608.0          21,236.0          19,961.8
MOD-TERM REVIEW                       -                -                 693.0             -                -                693.0             594.0
TOTAL bASE COST                65,416.81       85,509.6           63,878.2          52,316.70       49,810.7         316,932.0         142,574.6
COFTISGENCIES - Physical           4,544.4          5,508.9           2,535.8             952.8            527.9          14,069.8          5,398.0
- Price             5,917.0        15,340.7           14,567.9          14,162,1         15,514.0         65,501.7          27,959.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        75,878.2        106,359.2           80,981.9          67,431.6        65,852.6         396,503.5         175,932.0
1t  The Civil sneks cf Oilseedts and Agrotcultsval REniceerOeg alsa maiceatned by Civil O1- bneeriig, bat their cites have been n- taded
ad-e nptrat ing casts far thes-  t-a itets, Table 10 sad 12 respectively.
2/ I-celdec livestack parchase.
3/  Silariet No all  etaff based at NARC icllude hbasicg s1la-ace thraughbat, catainhsthcding that by peaject's end, abest half If them
ill hane beeo pr..ided with a house.



-61-                                                             Table 2
fICOIflUn         Af P?OJtr
SRC AnEl8EMT10XO
(R. -000)
Arcn         Unit                 ar I          Yr 2              Yr 3              Yr 4              Ye.r 5                t  e    1
Se. Ft.      Ct-t           C     O    t        V..    Ca-t      Nc.    Ctet   N e.  Ct-t            Me.    tCet         Be.      Coat
I.   IVESTOT COSTS
A.  caflJ!ssk*
4sretariat building                                  50,000         0.220          (1)   2,200.0          7,150.0            1,650.0                                 -        (1)    11,0000
-.sr.p                                                2,400         0.100          (1)                      240.0                -                 -                 -        (1)       240.0
2en7e GraSs 2                                         3,000         0.18           (2)   1,080.0              -                  -                 -                 -        (2       lOtlo
i1                                        2,500        0.18           (2)      900.0              -                  _                 _                          (2)       900.0
'II                                       1,500        0.18           (2)      540.0              _                  -                 -                          (22       540.0
piMture - ad Fittigs                                                                       63.0                              2,750.0                                                  3,380.0
Utilitisa 6 Site D-.lPyat                                                                1,190.0          1,847.5               412.5                                                 3,440.0
Consultat's I-n                                                                            324.5            494.9               113.4              -                 -                  932.8
S04-tetal                                                      6,954.5          9,732.4            4,925.9                                                 21,512.8
3, Vehdicles
tsr                                                                 100            (1)     100.0              -                  -                 _                 -        (1)       100.0
4-etl dra                                                           152            (1)     152.0              -                  -                          -                 (1)       152.0
Sib-t-taa                                                        252.0              =                  -                 -                 -                  252.0
C.  Office 0quil-t                                                                              147.0              -                  -                 -                 -                  147.0
D. Offic  FU. trr                                                                               568.0             75.0               _                 _                 -                   643.0
TD26L DV85TuRT COSTS                                                                         7.821.5          9,907.4             4,925.59             -                 _               22,554. 
II.   EDCWCAL  STAFF COSTS
a Office
Staff 0  4cct                                                            68.2          (1)      48.2    (1)      60.2      (1)      68.2      (1)     68.2    (1)       68.2      (1)       341.0
Pee-ns  f0i0cr                                                           52.0          (1)       52.0    (1)     52.0      (1)      52.0      (1)     52.0    (1)       52.0      (1)       260.0
Stanerist                                                                16.3          (1)       16.3    (1)      16.3     (1)       16.3     (1)     16.3    (1)       14.3      (1)        81.5
Peon                                                                      9.1          (1)       9.1    (1)       9.1      (1)       9.1      (1)      9.1    (1)        9.1      (1)        45.5
s ctr tit
P-r    s  O1 ffica                                                       44.6          (1)      44.6    (1)      44.6      (1)      44.4      (1)     44.6    (1)       44.6      (1)       223.0
Offic Aeistant                                                           22.2          (2)      44.4    (2)      44.4      (2)      44.1,     (2)     44.4    (2)       44.4      (2)       222.0
Staewtypist                                                              16.3          (1)       16.3    (1)      16.3     (1)      16.31    (1)      16,3    (1)       16.3      (1)        S1.3
2mn                                                                       9.1          (1)       9.1    (1)       9.1      (1)       9.1      (1)      9.1    (1)        9.1      (1)        4535
7ret,1t Ileistatio   Unit
Prejact sacret                                                           68.2          (1)      68.2    (1)      68.2      (1)      68.2      (1)     68.2   (1)        68.2      (1)       341.0
a-e offs                                                                 52.0            )      52.0    (1)      52.0      (1)      32.0      (1)     52.0   (1)        52.0      (1)       260.0
S.ta f piyt                                                              44.6          (1)      44.6    (1)      44.6      (1)      44.4      (1)     44.6    (1)       44.6.    (1)        223.0
Stingeng66                                                               22.2          (1)      22.2    (1)      22.2      (1)      22.2      (1)     22.2    (1)       22.2      (1)       111.0
St_Cpist                                                                 16.3          (1)      16.3    (1)      16.3      (1)      16.3      (1)     16.3    (1)       16.3      (1)        81.5
MeterW Clack                                                             15.1          (1)      13.1    (1)      03.0      (2)      13.1      (3)     13.1    (1)       15.1      (1)        75.5
_iorC                                                                    12.2          (1)      12 2    (1)      12.2      (1)      12.2      (1)     12.2    (1)       12.2      (1)        61.0
2_                                                                        9.1          (2)      18.1    (2)      18.1      (2)      18.L      (2)     18.1    (2)       18.1      (2)        90.5
*-is  Psint officer                                                      52.0          (1)      52.0    (1)      52.0      (1)      52.D      (1)     52.0    (1)       52.0      (1)       260.0
atat  Pmc.c   offiwc r3.3                                                              (1)      33.3    (1)      33.3      (1)      33.3      (1)     33.3    (1)       33.3     (1)        166.5
Sca-   aseex_-t                                                          33.3          (1)      33.3    (1)      33.3      (1)      33.3      (1)     33.3    (1)       33.3      (1)       166.5
Offt   Asitant                                                           22.2          (1)      22.2    (1)      22.2      (1)      22.2      (1)     22.2    (1)       22.2      (1)       111.0
Pan                                                                       9.1          (1)       9.1    (1)       9.1      (1)       9.1      (1)      9.1    (0)        9.1      (1)        45.5
fr_cial 11_t 
DapsI Director
neecs  Offiticers                                                   52.0          (1)      52.0    (1)      52.0    (1)        52.0     (1)      52.0    (1)      52.0      (1)       260.0
A-ecat. Officsr (erets, )                                           44                     44.6    (2)      89.2      (2)      89.2      (2)     89.2    (2)       89.2     (2)       401.4
.ei  cuer                                                           44.66         (1)      44.6    (1)      44.6      (1)      44.6      (1)     44.6    (15       44.6     (1)        213.0
catk cerlnar                                                        44.6          (1)      44.6    (1)      44.8      (1)      44.6      (1)     44.6    (1)       44.6     (1)        223.0
Maa2hn.-ar                                                          533           (1)      33.3    (1)      33.3      (1)      33.3      (1)     33.3    (1)       33.3     (1)         U6.5
A.Maw                                                               33.3          (1)      33.3    (1)      33.3      (1)      33.3      (1)     33.3    (12       53.3      (1)       166.5
Mste tppi c                                                         33.3          (1)      33.3    (3)      99.9      (3)      99.9      (3)     99.9    (3)       99.9     (3)        632.9
16.3         (1)       16.3    (1)      16.3     (1)       16.3     (1)      16.3    (1)      16.3      (1)        81.5
9.1         (2)       18.2    (2)      18.2    (2)       18.2      (2)     18.2    (2)       18.2      (2)        91.8
b)   Pi    AasOat
A.dit Offic
A_it Officer                                                        52.0                     -      (1)      52.0     (1)      52.0      (1)     52.0    (1)       52.0      (1)       200.0
office Ascitat                                                      44.6                            (1)     44.6      (1)      44.6      (1)     44.6    (1)       44.6      (1)       178.4
22.2                           (1)      22.2     (3)       66.6     (3)     66.6    (3)       66.6      (3)       222.0
ngs  Officar
deesexeac                                                           44.6          (1)       44.6      (1)    44.6        (1)    44.6      (1)     44.6      (1)    44.6      (1)       253.0
Offti  Assistat                                                     33.3          (1)       33.3    (1)     33.3      (1)      33.3      (1)     33.3    (1)       33.3      (1)       166.5
po                                                                  22.2          (1)      22.2    (1)      22.2      (1)      22.2      (1)     22.2    (1)       22.2      (1)       111.0
9.1         (1)        9.1    (1)       9.1     (1)        9.1     (1)      9.1    (1)        9.1      (1)        45.5
A)  CiLI Wak    ceA-te
Aecrnt Offic-r
Offic  A.sitett                                                     44.6          (1)       44.4    (1)      44.6     (1)      44.6      (1)     44.6    (1)       44.6      (13       223.8
St.s                                                                22is nt22.2   (1)       22.2    (2)     44.4      (3)      66.6      (3)     66.6    (3)       66.6      (3)       266.4
18.3         (1)       16.3    (1)      16.3     (1)       18.3     (1)     16.3    (1)       16.3      (1)        81.5
9.1         (1)        9.1    (1)       9.1     (1)        9.1     (1)      1 (    (1)        9.1      (1)        45.5
flAsla   _d T.A. IMPart Unit
Dirercr                                                                  68.2          (1)       68.2    (1)     68.2      (1)      66.2      (1)     66.2    (1)       68.2      (1)       341.0
hAset-t                                                                  44.6          (1)       44.6    (2)      89.2     (2)       89.2     (2)     89.2    (2)       89.2      (2)       401.4
Offit AssIstnt                                                           22.2          (1)       22.2    (2)      44.4     (2)       4,.4     (2)     44.4    (2)       44.4      (2)       199.8
SOsecrapter                                                              22.2           (1)       22.2      (1)    22.2     (1)      22.2      (1)     22.2       (1)    22.2     (1)       111.0
Sts"typis                                                                16.3          (1)      16.3    (1)      14.3      (1)      16.3      (1)     16.3    (1)       18.3     (1)         81.3
ri-                                                                       11. 53       (1)       11.5    (1)      11.5     (1)       11.5     (1)     11.5    (1)       11.5      (1)        31.5
Pee                                                                       9.1          (1)        9.1    (1)       9.1     (1)       0.1-     (1)      9.1    (1)        9.1      (1)        45.5
Sub-total                                                      1,374.3          1,693.3            1.759.9           1,759.9          1,759.9               8,347.3
111. O2l¶ OORATIAC COOTS
Oclaicle roncieg Erpenes-
Cur                                                                                          20.0             35.0 42 .0                          40.0              40.0                175.0
4-tgheal dritre                                                                              60.0            75.0               80.0              80.0              00.0                355.0
Office RlItea                                                                                  250.0            250.0                                  -                 -                  500,0
Office Sepplie,                                                                                 35.0             74.0               8a.0              86.0              86.0                387.0
tittMec                                                                                           5.0              6.3               (.5               6.0               6.5                 30.5
063-total                                                       !330.0            440.0              21.5             212.5             212.5              1,447.5
I0'. TOTAL IfIN t8L OFLATID  COSTS                                                                1,744.3          2,133.3             1,97!.4          1,972.4           1,972.4              9,794.8
V. T3TA0L PAW  DINISTfATOM                                                                       9,595.8         11,940.7            6,8962.3          1,972.4           1,972.4             32,349.6



PAKISTAN                                                               Annex 9
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT                                                      Table 3
STATION DEVELOPMENT - NARG
(Rs. '000)
Area         Unit            Year 1              Year 2             Year 3            Year 4            Year 5               T o t a 1
Sq. Ft.       Cost         (No.)  Cost         (No.)  Cost       (No.)  Cost        (No.)  Cost       (No.)  Cost          (Nd.)     Cost
Civil Works
Sealed Roads                            500/km                            (3)   1,500.0    (3)   1,500.0                                   -       (6 km)      3,000.0
Farm Roads                              125/km        (2)    250.n                           -                                             -       (2 kin)       250.0
Canals                                  680/km        (                   (.5)     325.0                       -                           -       (0.5 km)      325.0
Water Courses                           100/km                  -         (2)      200.0   (3)       300.0      (2)   200.0                -        ( 7 km)      700.0
Gates & Risers                           35                     -                   -       (3)      105.0      (2)     70.0                       (5)           175.0
Head House                  2,225    0.150                      _                   -       (1)      318.8               -                 -       (1)           318.8
Shade House               1,200       0.150                     -                   -       (2)      360.0               -                 -       (2)           360.0
Machinery Shed            2,000       0.15                      -         (1)      600.0                                 -                 -        (1)          600.0
Storage Shed              2,000       0.15            (1)    300.0        (        6                                     -                 -       (1)           300.0
House Grade I             3,000       0.18            (1)    540.0                  -                 -                  _4_
II           2,500      0.18            (1)    450.0         (1)      450.0              -                 -                  _       (2)           900.0
III          1,600      0.18                      -         (2)      576.0    (1)       288,0              -                          (3)           864.0
IV           1,000      0.16                      -          (4)      640.0    (4)      640.0                                 -        (8)        1,280.0
V              606      0.16                                           -       (4)      387.8    (4)   387.8                           (8)          7758.6
VI             520      0.135           (8)    561.6         (8)     561.6   (8)        561.6    (8)   561.6                           (32)       2,246.4
Hostel                        3,600      0.25                      _                  900.0               _                 _                  _                     900.0
Utilities & Site                                                 525.4              1,438.2           1,115,3             304,9                                    3,383.8
Development
Consultancy Fees                                                 144.5                395.5             306.7              83.8                                      930.5
Total                                             2,771.5               7,586.3           5,883.2          1,608.1                                   17,849.



Annex 9
PAKISTAN                                                               Table 4
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PARC - RESEARCH INFORMATION UNIT
(Rn '000)
Ulit             Veer I               Y r 2                Year 3               Year 4                Year 5                 To t     I
Cost         No.       Coot       No.      Coot         No.     Cost         No.    Cost          No.    Cost             No.         Cost
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
Car                                                     t00           (I        100.0                 -                    -                     _                    _            (1)         100.0
DOcmeaetation Equipmect  1/                                                   1,474.0            1,000.0                    -                    -                    _                      2,474.0
Office Equipment                                                                144.5                 -                     _                                                                  144.5
Furniture                                                                                           163.0                  -                    -                                              163.0
Sub-total                                                    1,718.5             1,163.0                                                                                    2,881.5
II.  INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Care Place Assistant Director                                  44.6        (1)         -        (Ii       44.6        (1)      44.6        (15      44.6        (1)       44.6          (1)         178.4
CNEP Deputy Director                                           52.0        (1)        52.0      (1       532.0       (1)       52.0        (1)      52.0        (1)       52.0          (1)         260.0
Systems Acalyst                                          52.0        (1)        52.0      (1)       52.0       (1)       52.0       (1)       52.0        (1)       52.0         (1)          260.0
Prograsaer                                              44.6         (1)         -        (1)       44.6       (1)       44.6       (1)       44.6        (1)       44.6         (1)          178.4
Docuentntion  Bibliographer                                   44.6         (1)         -        (1)       44.6       (1)       44.6        (1)      44.6        (1)       44.6         (1)          178.4
Publication Deputy Director                                    52.0        (1)        52.0      (1)       52.0       (1)       52.0       (1)       52.0        (1)       52.0          (1)         260.0
Secior Editor                                   52.0        (1)          -       (1)       52.0        (1)      52.0        (1)       52.0       (1)       52.0          (1)         208.0
Senior Editor (Urdu)                            52.0        (1)        52.0      (1)       52.0        (1)      52.0        (1)       52.0       (1)       52.0          (1)         260.0
Prees & Publicity  Deputy Director                             52.0        (1)         -        (1)       52.0       (1)       52.0        (1)      52.0        (1)       52.0         (1)          208.0
Productioc-Production  Officer                                 52.0        ji)        52.0      (1)       52.0       (1)       52.0        (1)      52.0        (1)       52.0          (1)         260.0
Machine Operator                                 44.6         (1)       44.6       (1)      44.6        (1)       44.6       (1)       44.6       (1)       44.6          (1)         223.0
Positive Marker                                  33.3         (1)       33.3       (1)      33.3        (1)       33.3       (1)       33.3       (1)       33.3          (1)         166.5
Library - Librarti.                                            52.0        (1)         -        (1)       52.0        (1)      52.0        (1)      52.0                                (1)         207.0
Care Piens Office Assistent                                    22.2        (1a        22.2      (2)       44.4       (2)       44.4        (2)      44.4        (2)       44.4          (2)         199.8
Stenotypist                                      22.2        (1)        22.2      (1)       22.2        (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2          (1)         111.0
Junior Clerk                                     12.2                     -        (2)      24.4        (2)       24.4       (2)       24.4       (2)       24.4          (2)          97.6
Pe.n                                              9.1         (2)        18.2      (3)      27,3        (3)       27.3       (3)       27.3       (3)       27.3          (3)          127.4
CNSP Office Assistent                                          22.2        (1)        22.2      (1)       22.2        (1)      22.2        (1)      22.2        (1)       22.2          (1)         111.0
stenotypist                                             22.2                     -        (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2          (1)           88.8
Junior Clerk                                            12.2         (1)        12.2      (1)       12.2       (1)       12.2       (1)       12.2        (1)       12.2         (1)           61.0
Fees                                                      9.1        (1(         9.1      (5)        9.1       (1)        9.1       (1)        9.1        (1)        9.1         (1)           45.5
Publication Proof Reeder                                       22.2        (1)        22.2      (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2        (1)      22.2        (1)       22.2          (1)         111.0
Senior Clerk                                    15.1        (1)        15.1      (1)       15.1       (1)       15.1        (1)       15.1       (1)       15.1          (1)          75.5
Press & Publicity Stenotypist                                  16.3                    -        (1)       16.3       (1)       16.3        (1)      16.3        (1)       16.3          (1)          65.2
Peon                                      9.1        (1)         9.1      (1)        9.1       (1)        9.1       (1)        9.1        (1)        9.1         (1)           45.5
Production Compositor                                          22.2        (1)        22.2      (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2        (1)       22.2         (1)          111.0
Plate Maker                                      22.2         (1)       22.2       (1)      22.2        (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2          (1)         111.0
Pressman                                         22.2        (1)        22.2       (1)      22.2        (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2          (1)         111.0
Mnchise Operator                                 16.3        (1)         16.3      (1)       16.3       (1)       16.3       (1)       16.3       (1)       16.3          (1)           81.5
Stenotypist                                      16.3        (1)        16.3      (1)       16.3        (1)       16.3       (1)       16.3       (1)       16.3          (1)           81.5
Senior Clerk                                     15.1        (1         15.5      (1)       15.5        (1)       15.1       (1)       15.1       (1)       15.1          (1)           75.5
Binder Cutter                                    12.2        (1)         12.2      (1)      12.2        (1)       12.2       (1)       12.2       (1)       12.2          (1)           61.0
Dark Root  Assistant                             12.2        (1)         12.2      (1)      12.2        (1)       12.2       (1)       12.'       (1)       12.2          (1)           61.0
Helper                                           12.2         (1+        12.2      (1)       12.2       (1)       12.2       (1)       12.2       (1)       12.2          (1)           61.0
DMC                                              11.1         (1)       11.1       (1)      11.1        (1)       11.1       (1)       11.1       (1)       11.1          (1)           55.5
Peon                                              9.1         (1)         9.1     (1)        9.1        (1)        9.1       (9.1        .1       (1)        9.1          (1)          45.5
Library - Assistant                                           22.2         (i)        22.2      (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2        (1)       22.2         (1)          111.0
Junior Clerk                                      12.2                     -        (1)       12.2       (1)       12.2       (1)       12.2       (1)       12.2          (1)           48.8
Peon                                               9.1         I1          9.1      (1)        9.1       01)        9.1       (1)        9.1       (1)         9.1         (1)           45.5
Cataloguer                                        27.0                     -        (1)       27.0       (1)       27.0       (1)       27.0       (1)       27.0          (1)          108.0
Sub-total                                                       692.8            1,116.0               1,116.0              1,116.0              1,116.0                    5,156.8
III.  OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Car Rucning Expecses                                                                  40.0                40.0                 40.0                 40.0                  40.0                      200.0
Utilities                                                                            160.0               160.0                160.0                160.0                160.0                       800.0
Other Expenses    2/                                                                 540.0               590.0                305.0                388.0                388.0                    2,291.0
Printing Costs                                                                       158.0               164.0                196.0                207.0                261.0                       986.0
Sub-total                                                       898.0               954.0                781.0                795.0                849.0                    4,277.0
IV.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL COSTS                                                            1,590.8             2,070.0               1,897.0              1,911.0              1,965.0                    9,433.8
V.  TOTAL RESEARCH INFORMATION                                                         3,309.8             3,233.0              1,897.0               1,911.0              1,965.0                   12,315.3
11     List and prices provided in project file.
2/     Printing materials, copy paper, microfilm-, etc.



Annlex 
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
LABORATORY EQUIPME1NT MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR UNIT - PARC
(Rs '000)
Area           Unit              Year 1             Year 2             Year 3             Year 4             Year 5               T o t a
Sq. Ft.          Cost           No.      Cost     No.       Cost     No.      Cost      No.    Cost         No.    Cost          No.        Cost
1.  INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  Civil Workks
Offices                                           500           0.22                    110.0              -                    -                 -                  -           (1)       110.0
Laboratories (A.C.)                               800           0.22                    176.0              -                    -                 -                  -           (1)       176..O
Workshop                                          600           0.14                     84.0               -                   -                 -                  -           (1)        84.0
Utilities and Site Developmen,                                                          92.5               _                   _-                                    -           (1)        92.5
Consultant's Fees                                                                        25.4              _                    _                _                   _                      25.4
487 9              -                    -                 -                  -                     487. 9
B.  Vehicles (4-wheel drive)                                      152.0                     152.0               -                                                                     1)        152.0
C.  Workshop Equipment    1/                                                                446.0             155.0                 -                 _                  _                      601.0
D.  Office Equipment                                                                          8.0               -                   -                 -                                           8.0
E.  Furniture                                                                                30.0               _                                                                                30.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                    1,123.9             155.0                          -                  -                            1,278.9
II. INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Instrumentation Engineer                                             52.0          (1)       52.0    (1)       52.0      (1)       52.0    (1)       52.0    (1)        52.0          (1)       260.0
Foreman mechanic                                                     33.3          (1)       33.3    (1)       33.3      (1)       33.3    (1)       33.3    (1)        33.3          (1)       166.5
Storekeeper                                                           24.0                    -       (1)      24.0      (1)       24.0    (1)       24.0    (L)        24.0          (1)        96.0
Glassblower                                                           24.0         (1)       24.0    (1)       24.0      (1)       24.0    (1)       24.0    (1)        24.0          (1)       120.0
Senior Mechanic                                                      24.0          (1)       24.0    (3)       72.0      (3)       72.0    (3)       72.0    (3)        72.0          (3)       312.0
Technicican                                                           22.2                    -       (1)      22.2      (1)       22.2    (1)       22.2    (1)        22.2          (1)        88.8
Clerk                                                                 15.1         (1)       15.1    (1)       15.1      (1)       15.1    (1)       15.1    (1)        15.1          (1)        75.5
Driver                                                                12.2         (1)       12.2    (1)       12.2      (1)       12.2    (1)       12.2    (1)        12.2          (1)        61.0
lub-total                                                        160.6             254.8               254.8             254.8              254.8                  1,179.8
III.  OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Vehicle Running Expenses
4-wheel drive                                                                           40.0              40.0                40.0              40.0               40.0                    200.0
Spares and Consumables                                                                      110.0              60.0                70.0              80.0               90.0                    410.0
Utilities                                                                                    10.0              15.0                30.0              30.0               30.0                    115.0
Equipment Maintenance                                                                         5.0              10.0                40.0              40.0               40.0                    135.0
Office Expenses                                                                              10.0              15.0                30.0              30.0               30.0                    115.0
Travel and other       2/                                                                    20.0              40.0                50.0              50.0               50.0                    210.0
Sub-total                                                        195.0             180.0               260.0             270.0              280.0                  1,185.0
IV.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                           355.6             434.8               514.8             524.8              534.8                  2,364.8
V.  TOTAL LABORATORY EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE                                                    1,479.5             589.8               514.8             524.8              534.8                  3,6A3.7
1/   List and prices provided in Droject file.
2/   Building Maintenance included  in Civil Engineering, NARC as buildings will be located at NARC.



-65-
Annex 9
PAKISTAN                                         Table 6
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Civil Engineering Unit
(Rs '000)
Unit       Year 1        Year 2          Year 3           Year 4           Year 5          T o t a 1
Cost    No.   Cost   No.   Cost   No.          Cost   No.        Cost  No.        Cost   No.    Cost
I.   INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Vehicles
Pick-up                      82.5    (2)  165.0   (-)         -   (-)          -   (-)           -  (-)           -  (2)    165.0
Motor cycle                  10.0    (2)   20.0   (-)           -   (-)        -   ()            -  ()            -  (2)       20.0
B. Other equipment                              20.0          60.0    -           -    -             -   -           -   -        80.0
C. Office furniture                             20.0              -    -          -    -            -   -            -   -        20.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                         225.0          60.0    -            -    -            -   -           -   -       285.0
II.  INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Executive Engineer              52.0    (1)   52.0   (1)   52.0   (1)          52.0   (1)        52.0  (1)        52.0  (1)    260.0
Assist. Ex. Engineer            44.6     (1)   44.6   (1)   44.6   (3)    133.8   (3)           133.8  (3)       133.8  (3)    490.6
Office Assistant                22.2    (1)   22.2   (1)   22.2   (1)          22.2   (1)        22.2  (1)        22.2  (1)    111.0
Overseer                        22.2    (1)   22.2   (3)   66.6   (3)          66.6   (3)        66.6  (3)        66.6  (3)    288.6
Draftsman                       22.2               -   (1)   22.2   (1)        22.2   (1)        22.2  (1)        22.2  (1)       88.8
Typist                          16.3    (1)   16.3   (2)   32.6   (2)          32.6   (2)        32.6  (2)        32.6  (2)    146.7
Senior clerk                    15.1    (1)   15.1   (1)   15.1   (1)          15.1   (1)        15.1  (1)        15.1  (1)       75.5
Junior clerk                    12.2    (1)   12.2   (2)   24.4   (2)          24.4   (2)        24.4  (2)        24.4  (2)    109.8
Tracer                          12.2               -   (1)   12.2   (1)        12.2   (1)        12.2  (1)        12.2  (1)       48.8
Driver                          11.5    (1)   11.5   (3)   34.5   (3)          34.5   (3)        34.5  (3)        34.5  (3)    149.5
Peon                             9.1    (1)    9.1   (2)   18.2   (2)          18.2   (2)        18.2  (2)        18.2  (2)       81.9
Accountant/recorder             33.3    (1)   33.3   (1)   33.3   (1)          33.3   (1)        33.3  (1)        33.3  (1)    166.5
Accounts assistant              22.2               -   (1)   22.2   (1)        22.2   (1)        22.2  (1)        22.2  (1)       88.8
Assistant                       15.1    (1)   15.1   (2)   30.2   (2)          30.2   (2)        30.2  (2)        30.2  (2)    135.9
Casual labor                                       -             -             20.0              50.0             68.0           138.0
Sub-total                                   253.6          430.3            539.5             569.5            587.5         2380.4
III. OTHER OPERATING EXPE1:SE1 /
Vehicle running expenses
Pick up                                       80.0          80.0             80.0              80.0             80.0           400.0
motorcycle                                    20.0          20.0             20.0              20.0             20.0           100.0
Office supplies                               18.0          18.0             18.0              18.0             18.0            90.0
Building maintenance PARC                        -              -           228.6             551.9            720.3         1,500.8
Building maintenance
NARC 2/                                         -              -           355.1             839.0          1,072.4        2,266.5
Utilities etc.                                50.0          50.0             50.0              50.0             50.0           250.0
Sub-total                                   168.0          168.0            751.7           1,558.9          1,960.7        4,607.3
IV.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS              421.6          598.3          1,291.2          2,128.4          2,548.2         6,987.7
V.   TOTAL CIVIL ENGINEERING GUll                   646.6          658.3          1,291.2           2,128.4          2,548.2        7,272,7
1/ In first two years unit will be supervising construction of civil works.
2/ For Station Development, Laboratory Equipment, Maintenance Unit, Plant Introduction, Animal Sciences, and the Agric.
Economics Research Unit, calculated at 3.5% of cost, excluding consultants' fees and brought in to account in the
second year following proposed construction: the figures also include amounts for maintenance of roads and water
courses but calculated at 5.5% of their construction cost. The Unit will also maintain the civil works constructed
for Oilseeds and Agricultural Engineering but for these two components building maintenance costs have been included
under their respective "Other Operating Cost", see tables 10 and 12.



Annex 9
PAtCISTAN                                                         Tab 1e 7
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PLANT SCIENCES - NARC
(Rs '000)
Unit             Year 1             Year 2              Year 3              Yent               YearS 5                To t aI
Cost          No.      Cost      No.      Cost       No.      Cost       No.      Cost      No.      Cost         No.         Cost
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  Vehicles
Pick-op                                                    82.5         (2)      165.0    (2)        165.0                                   -                    -         (4)          330.0
4-wheel drive                                             108.0         (1)      108.0    (2)                              -                                                (1)          1S.,Q
Sub-total                                                   273.0               165.0                 -                  -                    -                     438.0
D.  Agricultural Machinery    1/                                                   1,081.0             1,260.0               401.0              300.0                 75.0                 3,117.0
C.  office Equip-sent                                                                 136.0               219.0                -                  -                    -                     355.0
D.  Office Furniture                                                                  250.0              385.0               350.0                -                    -                     985.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                              1,740.0            2,029.0               751.0              300.0                 75.0                 4,895.0
II. INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Director General                                               105.8         (1)      105.0    (1)       105.8    (1)        105.8    (1)    105.8          (1)      105.8        (1)        529.0
Directors                                                       72.2         (2)      144.4    (4)       288.8    (4)        288.8      (4)    288.8        (4)      288.8        (4)      1,299.6
Deputy Director/Engin.er                                        58.7         (1)       58.7    (2)       117.4    (2)        117.4    (2)    117.4          (2)      117.4        (2)        528.3
SRO                                                             58.7        (12)      704.4   (24)   1,408.8   (31)   1,819.7    (35)  2,054.5             (37)   2,171.9        (37)      8,159.3
Assistant Agricultural Engineer                                 48.3         (1)       48.3    (1)         48.3    (2)        96.6    (2)        96.6       (2)       96.6        (2)        186.4
RO                                                              48.3        (20)      966.0   (39)   1,883.7   (51)   2,463.3   (56)  2,704.8              (59)   2,943.7        (59)    10,961.5
Foren, Machinery                                                37.5                    -                   -       (1)       37.5    (1)        37.5       (1)       37.5        (1)        112.5
Estate Officer                                                  44.6                    -       (1)       44.6    (1)         44.6    (1)        "4.6       (1)       44.6        (1)        178.4
Store Officer                                                   44.6         (1)       44.6    (1)        44.6    (1)         44.6    (1)        44.6       (1)       44.6        (1)        223.0
Librariam                                                       44.6         (1)       44.6    (1)        44.6    (1)         44.6      (1)      44.6       (1)       44.6        (1)        223.0
P.S. to Director General                                        33.3         (1)       33.3    (1)        33.3      (1)       33.3    (1)        33.3       (1)       33.3        (1)        166.5   o
Superintendent, office                                          33.3         (2)       66.6    (2)         66.6     (2)       66.6    (2)        66.6       (2)       66.6        (2)        333.0
Accountant                                                      27.0         (1)       27.0    (1)         27.0    (1)         27.0    (1)       21.0       (1)       27.0        (1)         135.0
Cataloguer                                                      27.0                    -       (1)       27.0    (1)         27.0    (1)        27.0       (1)       27.0        (1)        108.0
Stenographer                                                    22.2         (5)      111.0   (10)       222.0   (10)        222.0    (11)    244.2        (12)      266.2       (12)      1,065.6
Office Assistant                                                22.2         (5)      111.0    (5)        111.0     (9)      199.8   (10)    222.0    (10)           222.0       (10)        865.8
Field Assistant                                                 16.3         (5)       81.5   (10)       163.0   (10)        163.0   (10)    163.0    (10)           163.0       (10)        733.5
Stenotypist                                                     16.3         (5)       81.5    (6)        97.8    (9)         146.7      9)    146.7        (9)      146.7        (9)        619.4
Senior Clerk                                                    15.2         (2)       30.4    (4)         60.8    (6)        91.2    (6)        91.2       (6)       91.2        (6)        364.8
Mechanic                                                        15.2         (2)       30.4    (4)         60.8    (6)        91.2    (6)        91.2       (6)       91.2        (6)        364.8
Driver                                                          12.2         (5)       61.0   (10)       122.0   (10)        122.0   (10)    122.0    (10)           122.0      (10)         549.0
Junior Clerk                                                    12.2         (8)       97.6   (12)       146.4   (20)        244.0   (20)    244.0    (20)           244.0      (20)         976.0
Gardener                                                        12.2         (1)       12.2    (2)        24.4    (2)         24.4      (2)      24.4       (2)       24.4        (2)        109.8
Guard                                                            9.4         (2)       18.8    (2)         18.8    (2)        18.8    (2)        18.8       (2)       18.8        (2)         94.0
Pesos                                                            9.1        (20)      182.0   (47)       382.2   (63)        573.3   (63)    573.3    (63)           573.3       (63)      2,284.1
Casual Labor                                                                          611.0              611.0               711.0              711.0                811.0                 3,455.0
Sub-total                                                 3,672.1             6,160.7             7,824.2           8,34i.9              8,723.4                 34,725.3
III.  OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES
Vehicle Rsnoing Expenses
4-wheel drive                                                                      40.0               40.0                40.0               600.                 40.0                   200.0
Pick-up                                                                          160.0               320.0               320.0             320.0                320.0                  1,440.0
Tractors                                                                          48.0                96.0               120.0             120.0                120.0                    504.0
Utilities                                                                             200.0              200.0               200.0              200.0                200.0                 1,000.0
Laboratory and Agricultural chemicals                                                 986.0            1,011.0               936.0              861.0                736.0                 4,530.0
Office Expenses                                                                     1,000.0            1,000.0             1,000.0            i,000,0              1,000.0                 5,000.0
Sub-total                                                 2,434.0             2,667.0             2,616.0            2,541.0              2,416.0                12,674.0
IV.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                   6,106.1             8,827.7            10,440.2           10,885.9            11,139.4                 47,399.3
V.  TOTAL PLANT SCIENCES                                                                7,846.1            10,856.7            11,191.2           11,1F5.9            11,214.4                 52,294.3
1/   List and prices in project file



-67-
Annex 9
PAKISTAN                                                            Table N
AGRIC17LTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
AN0IMAL SCIENCES - NARC
(is '000)
Area        Unit             Yeo  I            Ye..  2           Yeer3              Ye- YearS                               Total
(1)  ANIMAL FARM CENTER                                               Sq. Ft.       Cost         No.      Cost     No.    Cost        Ne.    Cost       So.      Cost     Is.      Co            ..       C
I.  INVESITMENT COSTS
A.  Cviil Works
Steok Sheds                                           29,000         0.065          (3)   1,900.0               -                 -                   -                 -        (3)      1,900.0
Daity                                                   1 000       0.200           11)       -       (1)    200.0                -                  -                  -        (1)        200.0
Ray Shed                                                4,500        0.075          (1)     338.0               -                 _                   _                 _        (1)         338.0
Fe-d Store                                                550       0.105                     -       (1)      58.0               -                  -                  -        (1)         58.0
Offi-e                                                    800        0.220          (1)     176.0               -                 -                   -                 -        (1)         176.0
tltthinerly Shed                                        3,000        0;100                     -       (1)    300.0               _                   _                 _        (1)         390.0
Fish Tanks                                              1,000        1.110                            (4)    400.0                                                      -        (4         400.0
loose Grade IT                                          2 500        0.180                     -      (1)    450.0                -                   -                 -        (1)        450 0
1,000       0.180                             (2)    576.0                -                  -                  -       (2,         576.0
IV                                           520        0 180         (20)   1,404.0               -                                                               (20)       1,404.0
Site Development                                                     0.135                1,111.0             451.0               _                  _                  _                 1,451.0
Cons. lt.ot's Fees                                                                          275.0             124.0               _                   _                                      399.0
Sqb_-toei                                                      5,093.0          2,559.0                -                   -                 -                 7,652,0
B.  Vehicles (piek-up)                                                      82.5        (1)       82.5              -                  -                  -                 -        (1)          82.5
C.  ECoisesnt    1/                                                                            1,114.0              -                 -                   -                 -                  1,114.0
D.  Livestook (variosc)  2/                                                                        -              965.0               _                   _                 -                    965.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                         4,90. .5         3,524.0               -                   -                 -                 9,813.5
IT.  INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS                                                                            .                 -                                                                           Nil
III. INCRKREMTAL OPERATIRG COSTS
Trattor - foreig                                                                                 40.0             60.0              80.0               100.0             100.0                  300.0
Vehicles - unning       1/                                                                        10.0             25.0              05.0                25.0              25.0                  110.0
Feed                                                                                             10500            300.0             500.0               750.0             750.0               2,400.0
Se-d cod Fertiliner                                                                               50.0            100.0             150.0               200.0             200.0                  700.0
Mtdirc es                                                                                          5.0             10.0              10.0                10.0              10.0                   45.0
Utilities                                                                                         10.0             20.0              35.0                50.0              50.0                  165.0
Other          5/                                                                                 20.0             35.0              50.0                60.0              65.0                  230.0
Total                                                            235.0             550.0             850.0            1,105.0            1,200.0               4,030.0
Tv. TOAL ANIMAL FARM1 CER01R  (a)                                                                   6,524.5          4,074.0              850.0            1,195.0           1,200.0               13,043.5
(2) LIVESTOCC LAOROATORY CENTER
I. INVESTMENT COStS
A.  Civil Weeks
Laboentocies                                           4,800        0.220                 1,056.0               -                 -                  -                  -                 1,056.0
Offices                                                 2,940        0.220                     -              647.0               -                  _                  _                   647.0
etilLtico  end Site Setelepunot                                                             264.0             161.8               _                                     _                   425.8
Ce..oitnet s  Foes                                                                            72.6             44.5               -               _                     -                    117.1
1,392.6            853.3               -                  -                  -                 2,245.9
S.  Vehicles
Mini, 4 a 4                                                             53          (1)      53.0               -                 -                  -                  -        (1)         52,0
Cnr                                                                    100                    -       (1)    100.0                -                 -                   -        (1)        100.0
Shb-tot.l                                                         33.1             100-                                                                          153.0
C.  Lahor-taev EssinRent        21                                                              995.0               -                 -                   -                 -                   995.0
D.  Offic. Esoipsesot                                                                              -              105.0               -                   _                 _                   105.0
3.  Offiee F.s-iture                                                                                               00.0               -                   -                 -                    50.0
TOTAL INVESThENT COSTS                                                                       2,440.6            1,100.3               -                  -                                     3,548.9
II. INCREOI0NTAL STAFF COSTS
Di-ecttr                                                                    72.2        (1)     72.2      (1)      72.2      (1)     72.2    (1)         72.2   (1)        72.2      (1)        361.0
SRO                                                                         58.7        (1)     58.7      (2)    117.4       (4)    234.8    (6)        352.2   (6)       352.2      (1)      1,115.3
RO                                                                          48.3        (4)    193.2      (6)    280.8    (10)    483.0   (12)          579.6  (12)       597.6    (92)       2,125.2
Senior Toehndcioe                                                           22.2        (2)     44.4      (3)      66.6      (4)     88.8    (6)        133.2   (6)       133.2      (6)        466.2
Teohsitioo                                                                  16.3        (2)      32.6     (4)      65.2      (6)     97.8    (6)         97.8   (6)        97.8      (6)        391.1
Account (stones)                                                            27.0        (1)      27.0      (1)     23.0      (1)     27.0    (1)         27.0   (1)        27.0      (1)         135.0
Stneenypints                                                                16.3        (1)      16.3      (1)     16.3      (2)      32.6    (2)        32.6   (2)        32.6      (2)         130.4
Junior Clerk                                                                12.2                   -                -                  -      (1)        12.2   (1)        13.2      (1)          24.4
Deriets                                                                     12.2        (1)      12.2      (2)     24.4      (2)     24.4    (2)         24.4   (2)        24.4      (2)         109.8
GvArds                                                                       9.4        (2)      18.8      (2)     18.8      (2)      18.8    (2)        18.8   (2)        18.8      (2)          94.0
Pesos                                                                        9.1        (1)       9.1      (2)     18.2      (4)      36.4    (4)        36.4   (4)        36.4      (4)         136.5
OS.b-t.et.                                                      484.5              715.9           1,115.8            1,386.4           1,386.4                5,089.0
III.  10RR113NTAL OPERATING COSTS
Vehiole R-sning EoPn..s
Mini                                                                                         20.0              20.0              20.0                20.0              20.0                 100.0
Car                                                                                           -                20.0              30.0               40.0               40.0                 130.0
Utilition                                                                                         -                25.0               50.0               50.0              50.0                  175.0
Cheei-cel I                                                                                       -                50.0              30.0                50 0              50.0                  180.0
Office S pplies                                                                                  10.0              20.0               30.0               30.0              30.0                  120.0
S.b-tot.l                                                         30.0             135.0             160.0              190.0              190.0                  705.0
IV. YOTOM  INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                               514.5              850.9           1,2757.0           1,576.4            1,576.4               5,794.0
V.  TOTAL LIV8STOCK LA8O0AMTRY CEKTER (b)                                                         2,955.1            1,959.2      .   1,274.8             1,576.4            1,576.4               9,342.9
VC.  TOTAL ANIhAL SCIENCES  (        b) h (6)                                                      9,479.6            6,033.2           2,123,.            2,771.4            2,776.4              23,186,4
1/    List sod pnions provided in peojoct file; inltsde- dairy *nd feed oloing *s oell so finId  eqoipost
2/    List .nd prices provided in preject file



Annex 9
Table 9
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CEREAL DISEASES RESEARCH INSTITUTE
(R. '000)
Area            Unit             year 1            Year 2             Year 3             Year 4             Year 5                 T o t a 1
Sq. Ft.          Cost         No.      Cost       NO.    Coot        NO.    Coat        No.    Cost        No.    Cost          No.        Cost
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  Civil Works
Head House                                             352             0.140                                     43(1)  4            -                 -                   -         (1)           49.3
Machine Roels                                          240             0.140                   -        (1)      32.6                                                                 (1)          33.6
Staff NoHsee (Senior)                                  611             0.180         (71    220.0                 -                                    -                   -          (2)         220.0
Staff House. (Other)                                   305             0.135         CI)    164.7                  -                 -                 -                    -         (4)         164.7
Site Developsent                                                                              96.2               20.7                -                 _                   -                      116.9
Consultancy Fees                                                                              26.4                 5.7                                                                             32.1
Greenhouse Installation                                                                        -                 70.0                                                                              70.0
Installation of Coaling Unit.                                                                  -                 40.0                -                 -                   _                       40.0
Sub-total                                                          507.3               219.3                -                 -                   -                      726,6
B.  Vehicles
Pick-up                                                                    82.5      (1)      82.5                 -                 -                 -                    -         (1)          82.5
4-wheel drive (diesal)                                                    172.0      (1)    172.0                  -                _                  -                    _         (1)         172.0
Sob-total                                                          254.5                 -                                     - _                                      254.5
C.  Eiuip,aent                                                                                   962.7               180.0                                                                          1,142.7
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                         1,724.5               399.3                                                                          2,123.8
II.  INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
staff
SRO                                                                            58.7                -                   -       (1)       58.7    (1)       58.7       (2)     117.4       (2)          234.8
Artist                                                                         33.2                -        (1)       33.2    (1)        33.2    (1)       33.2       (L)      33.2       (1)          132.8
Librarian                                                                      33.2                -        (1)       33.2    (1)        33.2    (1)       33.2       (1)      33.2       (1)          132.8 
Steonographer                                                                  22.2                -                   -       (1)       22.2    (1)       22.2       (1)      22.2       (1)           66.6
Driver                                                                         12.2                -        (3)       36.6    (3)        36.6    (3)       36.6       (3)      36.6       (3)          146.4
Cleaner                                                                         9.1                -        (1)        9.1   (t)          9.1    (1)        9.1       (1)       9.1       (1)           36.4
Sweeper                                                                         9.1      (2)      18.2      (2)       18.2    (2)        18.2    (2)       18.2       (2)      18.2       (2)           91.0
Casual Labor                                                                                       -                   -                  7.0              10.0                15.0                     32.0
Sub-total                                                           18.2               130.3              218.2             221.2               284.9                    872.8
III.  OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Vehicle RunsinR Expenses
Pick-up                                                                                       40.0                40.0               40.0             40.0                 40.0                   200.0
4-wheel drive                                                                                 80.0                80.0              50.0              80.0                 80.0                   400.0
Laboratory Equip,.ent                                                                               -                  -                 10.0              12.0                30.0                     52.0
utilities                                                                                          -                   -                 10.0              10.0                10.0                     30.0
Laboratory Supplies                                                                                -                  15.0               16.0              16.0                16.0                     63.0
office Supplies                                                                                     -                  8.0               13.0              13.0                13.0                     47.0
other                  2/                                                                          -                   -                  7.0              15.0                15.0                     37.0
Building Maintenance -                                                                              -                  -                 21.9              25.5                25.5                     72.9
Sob-total                                                          120.0               143.0              197.9             211.5               229.5                    901.9
IV.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                                 138.2               273.3             416.1             432.7                514.4                 1,774.7
V.  TOTAL CEREAL DISEASES RESEARCH INSTITUTE                                                       1,862.7               672.6              416.1             432.7                514.4                 3,898.5
1/    All included in oun.ary table under laboratory equipeent including greenhouse kit and a rots-tiller. List and prices provided in project file.
2/    Buildings at Murree



PAKISTAN                                                                                     Annex 9
AGRICULTIRAL RESEARCH PROJECT                                                                           Table 10
OILSEEDS DIVISION - NARC
(R.. '050)
Area       Uit               Year 1                Year 2               Year 3                Tear 4                Year S                    T a   a 1
Se. Ft.      Cost           (Na)    Cast          (Na.)    Cost        (N.)    Cast          (Na)      Cast        (N-)    Cast              (No.)        Cost
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Werks
Laboratories & Offices                 5,820           0    -              1,344.4                    -                   -                      -                    -                      1,344.4
Garage                                   480           0.10                    48.0                  -                    -                      -                    _                         48.0
Utilitiea & Site Development                                                  348.1                   -                   -                      -                    -                        348.1
Canaultant's Fees                                                              958 5                 -                    -                      - _                                         1,8365
Sub-total                                                  1,836.0                   -                    -                     -                    -                      1,836.0
B. Vehicles
Pick-up                                               82.5           (1)       82.5                   -                   _-                                          -               (1)       82.5
M.t.rcycle                                           J15.5           (2)       31.0                   -                   -                                           -               (2)       31.0
Bicycles                                                *                  --                                                                                                                  1
Sub-total                                                    113.5                                                                                                            ii3.5
C.  Field Equipment                                                               209.0                   -                               -                               -                        209.0
D.  Laboratory Equipment-/                                                           -                  480.9               250.0                     -                   -                         730.9
E.  Office Equipewnt                                                               12.4                   -                    -                      -                   -                          12.4
F.  Office Purnituro                                                                                   2                                              -                   -                         229.0
217.0           1~~2.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                         2,170.9                  697.9               262.0                    -                    -                      3,130.8
1I.  INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Staff
SR                                                       358.7           (1)       58.7        (2)      117.4         (2)   117 4         (12)     117.4        (2)    117.4              (2)       528.3
REO                                                       48.3                      -          (1)       48.3         (1)    48.3         (1)       48.3        (1)      48.3             (1)       193.2
RO    t                                                    1 Tehnician  16.3  (2)  32.6        (4)       65.2         (4)    65.2         (4)       65.2        (4)      65.2             (4)       293.4
Labraor  Tebiin16.3                                                     (4)       65.2       (5)       81.5         (5)    81.5          (5)       81.5       (1)       81.5             (5)      391.2
Field As.istast                                           15.1           (1)       15.1        (1)       15.1         (1)    15.1         (1)       15.1        (5)      15.1              (1)       75.5
Senior Clerk                                              12.2           (1)       12.2        (1)       12.2        (1)    12.2          (1)       12.2        (1)      12.2             (1)       61.0
Driver                                                     9.1           (1)        9.1        (1)        9.1         (1)      9.1        (1)         9.1       (1)       9.1             (1)       45.5
Ca6  l Lab                                                                        110.0                 150.0               150.0                  150.0                150.0                      710.0
Sub-total                                                    302.9                 498.8                498.8                 498.8                498.9                    2,298.1
Ill.  OTHER lP4EAIbING 1OSTS
Vehicle Runninag Fpenpce
Pick-np Vehicle                                                                40.0                 40.0                 40.0                   40.0                40.0                       200.0
Motorcycle                                                                     20.0                 20.0                 20.0                   20.0                 20.0                      100.0
Iltilities                                                                          5.0                  15.0                25.0                   25.0                 25.0                       95.0
Laboratory SupFlies                                                                10.0                  15.0                15.0                   20.0                 20.0                        80.0
Ayrlcultural  Chemicals  8 Seeds                                                  287.0                 297.0               297.0                  297.0                297.0                    1,475.0
office Sapplie                                                                     34.0                  34.0                34.0                   34.0                 34.0                       170.0
Others                                                                             16.0                  16.0                16.0                   16.0                 16.0                        80.0
Buildins Mainteoa.ce-                                                           _ -                       _                  60.0                   60.0                 60.0                       180.0
Sub-total                                                    412.0                437.0                507.0                  512.0               512.0                    2,380.0
IV.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                  714.9                 935.8             1,005.8                i,010.8             1,010.8                    4,o78.1
2,885.8              1,633.7              1,267.8                1,010.8             1,010.8                    7,808.9
V. T0TAL. OIEED8 DIVI810N
L 1/  Incladoo 2  Jir-canditloned laboratories - 800 sq. ft. at RS  300 per sq. ft.
2/ List and prices provided in project file.
3/  Iocluded here end sat under PARC Civl Engineerlg as exact otates  cot det-rin.ed.



Annex 9
Table 11
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PLANT IHTROOUJCTION/GEN~ETIC RESO~URCES DIVI~SION - HANGC
(Rs '000)
Area          Unit              Year 1             Year 2             Year 3              Year 4             Year 5                  T a t a I
Sq. Ft.        Coat          No.      Cost        No.    Coat       No.      Coat       No.      Coat      RN.      Coat         No.         Cost
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
office Buildings                                   4,480            0.22                    197.1               788.5                -                   -                   -        (1)          985.6
Shade/Greenhouses                                     1/            0.15  2/                226.0               906.0                                    -                            (13)      1,132.0
Garage                                               480            0.1                      48.0                                              -                                      (1)           48.0
Utilities & Site Development                                                                  -                541.4                                                                               541.4
Consultant's Pens                                                                            30.0               119.0                ---149.0
Sub-total                                                         501.1            2,354.9                 _                                                          2,856.0
B.  Vehicles
Pink-up                                                               82.5         (1)       82.5                                              -                   -                  (1)            2.5
Motorcycle                                                            12.0         (1)       12.0      (1)       12.0                                                        -        (2)           24.0
Sub-total                                                          9 42.                                                                                                 106.5
C.  Field Plot Equipment   3/                                                                    185.5               46.5                                                        -                     232.0
D.  Scientific Equipment   3/                                                                     46.5                -                                      --                                         46.5
E.  Office Equipment                                                                              12.0                -                   -                  -                   -
F.  Furniture                                                                                     50.0              100.0                 -                                                            150.0
Sub-total                                                         294.0              146.5                                                                              440.5
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                           889.6            2,513.4                                                        -                   3,403.0
LI.  INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Director                                                                   72,2         (1)       72.2      (1)      72.2   (1)          72.2    (1)         72.2    (1)        72.2       (1)         361.0
Deputy Director                                                            58.7                    -        (1)      58.7   (1)          58.7     (1)       56.7      (1)       58.7       (1)         254.8
SRO                                                                        58.7         (2)      117.4      (6)    352.2   (6)          352.2    (6)       552.2      (6)      352.2       (6)       1,526.2           1
50                                                                         46.3                    -        (2)      96.6   (2)          96.6     (2)       96.6    (2)         96.6       (2)         386.4           c
Artist                                                                     44.6                    -        (1)      44.6   (1)          44.6    (1)         44.6    (1)        44.6       (1)          178.4
Photographer                                                               24.0                    -        (1)      24.0   (1)          24.0     (1)        24.0     (1)       24.0       (1)           96.0
Office Assistant                                                           22.2         (2)       44.4      (4)      88.8   (4)          88.8    (4)         88.6    (4)        88.8       (4)         399.6
Stenotypist                                                                16.3         (2)       32.6      (4)      65.2   (4)          65.2    (4)         65.2    (4)        65.2       (4)         293.4
Field Assistant                                                            16.3         (4)       65.2      (6)    130.4   (8)          130.4     (8)      130.4    (6)        130.4       (8)         586.8
Driver                                                                     12.2         (1)       12.2      (2)      24.4   (2)          24.4     (2)        24.4    (2)        24.4       (2)          109.8
Sweeper                                                                     9.1                    -        (1)       9.1   (1)           9.1    (1)          9.1     (1)        9.1       (1)          56.4
Guards, peons                                                               9.1          4)       36.4    (12)      109.2  (16)         145.6   (16)       145.6   (16)        145.6    (16)           582.4
Casual Labor                                                                                     100.0              100.0               100.0               100.0              100.0                   500.0
Sub-total                                                         480.4            1,175.                  2              1,211.8             1,211.8                 5,291.2
III   OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Vehicle Running Expenses
Pick-up                                                                                      40.0                40,0                40.0               40.0                40.0                  200.0
Motorcycles                                                                                  10.0                20.0                20.0               20.0                20.0                   90.0
Utilities                                                                                          _                 10.0                15.0                15.0               15.0                     55.0
Office Supplies                                                                                   44.0               56.0                56.0                56.0               56.0                    268.0
Laboratory Supplies                                                                               10.0               15.0                15.0                15.0               15.0                     70.0
Agricultural chemsicals/seeds                                                                    125.0              125.0               125.0               125.0              125.0                    625.0
Miscellaneous                                                                                     30.0               30.0                30.0                30.0               30.0                    150.0
Sub-total                                                         259.0              296.0               301.0               301.0               301.0                 1,455.0
IV.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                                739.4             1,471.4            1,512.8             1,512.8             1,512.8                 6,749.2
V.  TOTAL PLANT  INTRODUCTION/CENETIC RESOURCES
DIVISION                                                                                      1,629.0             3,984.8             1,512.8            1,512.8             1,512.8                10,152.2
I/      2 greenhouses of 1,800 sq. ft. each, 1 greenhouse of 4,000 sq. ft.
2/     Average for items in footnote 1/ and used in calculation is Rs. 148.95 sq. ft.
3/     List and prices provided in project file.



-71-
Annex 9
Table 12
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING DIVISION - NARC
(Rs. '000)
Area      Unit      Year 1           Year 2            Year 2           Year 3            Year 4            Year 5             TOTAL
Sq. Ft.   Cost   No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost                No.    Cost       No.    Cost    No.    C s
I.  INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  Civil Works
Offices             8,150      0.22          358.6          1,255.1             179.3                                                                1,793.0
Workshops/
Stores          11,300     0.14           632.8            949.2                                                                                 1. 982.0
Garage              2,000      0.10                            200.0                                                                                   200.0
Guardhouses           800    0.10              80.0                                                                                                     80.1)
Utilities & Site
Development                                267.8            601.1              97.9                                                                  966.8
Consultant Fees                               73.6             165.3             26.9                                                                  265.8
Sub-total -                         1,412.8          3,170.7             304.1                                                                4,887.6
B.  Vehicles
Provinces: Pick-up           82.5                     (4)    330.0                                                                              (4)   330.0
Sub-total                                               330.0                                                                                   330.0
C. Equipment
Neadquarters:
Workshop Equipment  1/                         90.5           477.2             100.0                                                                  667.7
Field Testing
Equipment          1/                      25.0             50.0            125.0                                                                  200.0
Prototype Machinery                           50.0             100.0            100.0                                                                  250.0
Office EquiDment &
Heaters                                     8.4            109.6                                                                                    118.0
Furniture (lab/office)                        50.0              75.0             75.0                                                                  200.0
Provinces:
Field Testing
Equipment          1/                                      300.0            200.0                                                                  500.0
Workshop Equipment  1/                                          80.0             80.0               40.0                                               200.0
Office Equipment    1/                                          40.0                                                                                    40.0
Office Furniture                                                20.0            ___                     _                                               20.0
Sub-total -                                223.9          1,251.8             680.0               40.0                                            2,195.7
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                          1,636.7          4,752.5            984.1                40.0                                            7,413.3
II. INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Provinces:
Asst. Agric. Engineer          48.3                   (4)      193.2    (4)   193.2         (4)   193.2        (4)  193.2                      (4)    772.8
Office Assistant               22.2                   (4)       88.8    (4)    88.8         (4)    88.8        (4)   88.8                      (4)    355.2
Storekeeper                   22.2                   (4)        88.8    (4)    88.8         (4)    88.8        (4)   88.8                      (4)    355.2
Senior Mechanic               22.2                   (4)        88.8    (4)    88.8         (4)    88.8       (4)   88.8                       (4)    355.2
Mechanic                       15.1                   (4)       60.4    (4)    60.4         (4)    60.4        (4)   60.4                      (4)    241.6
Driver/Mechanic                15.1                  (4)        60.4    (4)    60.4         (4)    60.4        (4)   60.4                      (4)    241.6
Peon                           99.1                  (4)        36.4    (4)    36.4         (4)    36.4        (4)   36.4                      (4)    145.6
Sub-total -                                                 616.8            616.8               616.8            616.8                           2,467.2
III. OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Vehicle Running Expenses
Provinces:
Pick-ups                                                    320.0             320.0             320.0            320.0                             1,280.0
Utilities                                                    40.0              40.0              40.0             40.0                               160.0
Sub-total -                                                 360.0            360.0              360.0            360.0                            1,440.0
IV.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                               976.8             976.8             976.8            976.8                             3,907.2
V.  TOTAL AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING               1,636.7          5,729.3           1,960.9           1,016.8            976.8                            11,320.5
1/ List and prices provided in project file.



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
EXTENSION METHODOLOGY RESEARCH
(Rs -TO06)
Unit          Year 1        Year 2        Year 3         Year 4        Year 5         Total
Cost        (No)  Cost  QT'0   Cost   (o )  Cost  (No)  Cost  (No.)  Cost  (No.)  Cost
I.  INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  Pick-up Vehicles            53.0        (8)  424.0   (8)   424.0                                           -    (16)   848.0
B.  Field Equipment                               21;0           21.0             -             _              -            42.0
C.  Office Furniture                              40.0           80.0             -             -              -           120.0
Total Investment Cost                            485.0          525.0                                                    1,010.0
II.  INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Coordinator                      72.2       2 ) 144.4      (4)  288.9    (4)   288.9    (4)  288.9    (4)  288.9  (4 ) 1,300.0
Production Agronomists          58.7        (8)  469.6    (16)  939.2   0.6)   939.2  (16)  939.2  (16)  939.2  t6) 4,226.4
Field Assistants                16.3       ([6)  260.8    (32)  521.6   (32)   521.6   (32)  521.6   (32)  521.6  (32) 2,347.2
Drivers                         12.2        (8)   97.6     ()  195.2  (16)   195.2  (16)  195.2   (16)  195.2  (16)   878.4
Casual Labor                                     172.0          344.0           344.0         344.0          344.0       1,548.0
Sub-total                              1,144.4         2,288.9        2,288.9       2,288.9        2,288.9      10,300.0
III.  OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Vehicle Running Expenses
Pick-up                                     160.0           320.0          320.0          320.0         320.0        1,440.0
Utilities                                          4.4            8.8             8.8           8.8            8.8          39.6
Agricultural chemicals, seeds                      4.4            8.8             8.8           8.8            8.8          39.6
Office expenses                                   24.0           48.0            48.0          48.0           48.0         216.0
Extension materials                               65.0          130.0           130.0         130.0          130.0         585.0
Office rent                                       57.6          115.2          115.2          115.2          115.2         518.4
Freight/e2hibitions/etc.                          88.0          176.0           176.0         176.0          176.0         792.0
Sub-total                                403.4           806.8          806.8         806.8          806.8       3,630.5
IV.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS              1,547.8        1,095.7         3,095.7       3,095.7        3,095.7      13,930.6
V.  TOTAL EXTENSION METHODOLOGY                    2,032.8        3,620.7         3,095.7       3,095.7        3,095.7      14,940.6
I-_



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS RESEARCH UNITS (AERUs)
Unit Cost of AERUs Salaries
Incremental Staff Costs in the following five tables   5  to  19  , are based on the breakdown of Unit Costs of
Salaries given below:                                                                Location
Away on                       In Post
Training               With          Without
House           House
(Rs. '000)
Post Title
Senior Agricultural Economist                                       65.5                   53.2          72.2
Agricultural Economist                                              53.2                   44.3          58.7
Assistant Agricultural Economist                                    44.2                   33,9          48.3
Sociologist                                                         53.2                   44.3          58.7
Assistant Sociologist    1/                                          -                      -            48.3
Biometrician                                                        53.2                   44.3          58.7
Statistical Assistant                                               34.3                   27.8          37.5
1/ Probationary period at NARC before overseas (Ph D) fellowship.
N.B. Training periods for all senior personnel have been identified according to the staffing requirements
of the five AERUs to be established under the project: travel costs of staff on training are included in the
cost of training.  Except at NARC, a house will be provided for specific posts:  incumbents would not then
receive a housing allowance.  Consequently, the Unit Costs of specific staff have been adjusted to take these
two factors into account.
0X



Table 15
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIC RESEARCH UNIT - NARC
(Rs '000)
Area             Unit                 Year l             Year                year 3              Year 4              Year 5                To ta
Sq.  Ft.         Cost/ Sq. Ft.        No.    Cost        No.      Cost       Na.     Cost        No.      Cost      Me.      Cost        Ho.        Coot
S. INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  Civil Works
Office                                   1,140             0.220             (1)    250.8                  -                  -                    -                  -          (1)      250.8
Utilities & Sits
Developsent                                                                         62.7                 -                   -                    -                  -                    62.7
Consoltancy Fees                                                                     17.2                  -                                                                               17.2
Sb-Ltotal                                                         330.7                  -                   -                    -                  -                   330.7
B.  Vehicles
Mini  4 x 4                                                                  (1)    53.0                   -                   _                    _      (1)       53.0        (2)      106.0
Car                                                                                   _          (1)    100.0                  -                    _                 -          (1)      100.0
Sob-total                                                           53.0               100.0                 -                    -                  -                   206.0
C.  Eoipwnt
Office                                                                               60.0                  -                 35.0                   -                35.0                 130.0
D.  Furniture                                                                           100.0                  -                   -                    _                  _                   100.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                  543.7                100.0                35.0                  -                 88.0                 766.7
II.  INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Senior Agricoltural EconomIst                                    72.2            (1)    72.2         (1)      72.2    (1)         72.2       (1)       72.2    (1)        65.5        (1)      354.3
Agricultoral Economist                                           58.7                      _         (1)      53.2    (1)         53.2       (2) 2/  111.9    (2)    117.4            (2)      335.7
Assistant Agricultural Economist  1/                             48.3             (1)    44.2        (1)      48.3    (1)         48.3                  -                  -          (1)      140.8
Bionetrician                                                     58.7             (1)    53.2        (1)      53.2    (1)         53.2       (1)       58.7    (1)        58.7        (1)      277.0
Sociologist                                                      58.7            (1) 2/ 48.3         (1)      53.2    (1)         53.2       (1)       53.2    (1)        58.7        (1)      266.6
Statistical Assistant                                            37.5             (1)    37.5        (1:      37.5    (1)         37.5       (1)       34.3    (1)        37.5        (1)      184.3
Office Assistant                                                 22.2                      -                   -        (1)       22.2       (1)       22.2    (1)        22.2        (1)       66.6
Stenographer                                                     22.2            (1)    22.2         (1)      22.2    (1)         22.2       (1)       22.2    (1)        22.2        (1)      111.0
Stenotypist                                                      16.3                      -                   -                   _         (1)       16.3    (2)        32.6        (2)       48.9
Clerk - Store                                                    15.2                      _         (1)      15.2    (1)         15.2       (1)       15.2    (1)        15.2        (1)       60.8
Junior Clerk                                                     12.2                                          -                   -                    -        (1)      12.2        (1)       12.2
Driver                                                           12.2            (1)    12.2         (2)      24.4    (2)         24.4       (2)       24.4    (3)        36.6        (3)      122.0
Messengers                                                         9.1            (1)      9.1       (2)      18.2    (3)         27.3       (4)       36.4      (5)      45.5         (5)     136.5
Sob-total                                                         298.9                397.6               428.9                467.0              524.3              2,116.7
III. OThER OPERATING COSTS
Vehicle Rsoning Expenses
Mini  4 x 4                                                                          20.0                 20.0               20.0                  20.0              40.0                 120.0
Car                                                                                   -                   30.0               40,0                 40.0               40.0                  150.0
Utilities                                                                                20.0                 40.0                50.0                 60.0               80.0                 250.0
Surveys                                                                                    -                  10.0                20.0                 20.0               20.0                  70.0
Office Expenses                                                                           80.0                90.0               120.0                150.0              180.0                 620.0
Building Maintenance    4/                                                           _____
Sob-total                                                         120.0                190.0               250.0                290.0              360.0               1,210.0
IV.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                        418.9                587.6              678.9                757.0              884.3               3,326.7
V. TOTAL AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIC RESEARCH -
NARC                                                                                 962.6                687.6              713.9                757.0              972.3               4,093.4
1/    On domestic M Sc Coorse in Yoar 1
2/    One an overseas fellovbhip
3/    On probation
4/    Transfered to Civil Engineering Unit, NARC



Annex 9
Table 16
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECTS
AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS RESEARCH UNIT - FAISALABAD A.R. I.
(Rs '000)
Area           Unit              Year 1            Year 2             Year 3             Year 4              Year 5               T o t a I
Sq.  Ft.         Cost           No.     Cost      No.    Cost         No.    Cost       No.      Cost       No.    Cost          No.       Cost
FAISALAWAD
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
office                              760             0.22                             (1)   167.2                  -                  -                  _          (1)       167.2
House, III                        1,600             0.18                     -       (2)   576.0       (1)      288.0                -                  -          (3)       864.0
House, VI                         1,000             0.16                    -                 -        (1)      160.0                -                  -          (1)       160.0
Utilities & Site
Development                                                                 -              185.8               112.0                -                  -                    297.8
Consultancy Fees                                                             _               51.1                30.8                -                  -                     81.9
Sub-total                                                                       980.1               590.8                -                  -                  1,570.9
B. Vehicles
Mini 4 x 4                                         53.0                      -                          (1)      53.0                                   -          (1)        53.0
Car                                               100.0                                                                   (1)      100. O                          (1)       100.0
Sub-total                                                       -                 -                  53.0              100.0                -                    153.0
C.  Equipment
Office                                                                       -               95.0                 -                  -                  -                     95.0
D.  Furniture                                                                    -               75.0                 -                  -                  -                     75.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                           _            1,150.1               643.8              100.0                _                  1,893.9
II. INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Senior Agricultural Economist                            1/                      -                -                   -                  -        (1)      53.2        (1)        53.2
Agricultural Economist                                   1/           (1)       53.2      (1)    53.2      (1)       53.2    (1)        44.3      (1)      44.3        (1)       248.2
Assistant Agricultural Economist  2/                     1/                      -        (1)    44.2      (1)       33.9    (1)        33.9                -          (1)       112.0
Biometrician                                             l/           (1)       53.2      (1)    53.2      (1)       44.3    (1)        44.3      (1)      44.3        (1)       239.3
Statistical Assistant                                    1/                      -                -                   -       (1)       27.8      (1)      27.8        (1)        55.6
office Assistant                                         22.2                    -                -                   -                  -        (1)      22.2        (1)        22.2
Stenographer                                             22.2                    -                -                   -       (1)       22.2      (1)      22.2        (1)        44.4
Clerk Typist                                             15.2                    -                -        (1)       15.2    (1)        15.2      (1)      15.2        (1)        45.6
Junior Clerk                                             12.2                    -                -        (1)       12.2    (1)        12.2      (1)      12.2        (1)        36.6
Driver                                                   12.2                    -                -        (1)       12.2    (2)        24.4      (2)      24.4        (2)        61.0
Messenger                                                 9.1                    _                _        (1)        9.1    (2)        18.2      (3)      27.3        (3)        54.6
Sub-total                                                     106.4             150.6               180.1             242.5              293.1                   972.7
111. OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Vehicle Running Expenses
Mini  4 x 4                                                                -                 -                  20.0               20.0               20.0                   60.0
Car                                                                        -                 -                   -                30.0               40.0                    70.0
Utilities                                                                        -                -                  30.0               55.0               60.0                  145.0
Surveys                                                                          -                -                  10.0               20.0               20.0                   50.0
Office Expenses                                                                  -                -                  80.0              120.0              140.0                  340.0
Building Maintenance                                                             -                -                   -                 32.5               52.1                   84.6
Sub-total                                                       -                 -                 140.0             277.5              332.1                   749.6
IV.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                              106.4             150.6              320.1              520.0              625.2                1,722.3
V.  TOTAL - AERU, FAISALABAD                                                       106.4          1,300.7               963.9              620.0              625.2                3,616.2
1/   According to Table  14
2/   On Domestic M Sc Course in Year 2



Annex 9
Table 17
EA_RISTAN4
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL ECONOMICS RESEARCH UNIT - TARMAR
(Rs '000)
Area          Unit              Year I              Year 2             Year 3             Year 4              Year 5                T o t a I
Sq.  Ft.        Cost           No.    Cost          No.    Cost       No.    Cost        No.      Cost      No.       Cost        No.         Cost
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
Office                                   760            0.22           (1)    167.2                   _        -                  -                             -         (1)         167.2
House, I1I                            1,600             0.18           (1)    288.0        (1)    288.0    (1)    288.0                     -                   -         (3)        864.0
House, IV                             1,000             0.16                     -                    -                 -        (1)      160.0                 -         (1)         160.0
Utilities & Site
Development                                                                  113.8                72.0              72.0                 40.0                -                     297.8
Consultancy Fees                                                                31.3                 19.8              19.8                11.0                 -                      81.9
Sub-total                                                         600.3                379.8             379.8               211.0                 -                   1,570.9
B. Vehicles
Mini  4 x 4                                             53.0           (1)      53.0                  -                 -                                       _         (1)          53.0
Car                                                    100.0                     -                                      -        (1)      100.0                 -         (1)         100.0
Sub-total                                                          53.0                  _                 -                  100.0                _                     153.0
C.  Equipment
Office                                                                          60.0                  -                 -                  35.0                 -                      95.0
D.  Furniture (Office)                                                              75.0                  -                 -                    -                                         75.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                             788.3                379.8             379.8                346.0                -                   1,893.9
II. INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Senior Agricultural Economist    1/                                        (1)      72.2        (1)      53.2    (1)       53.2      (1)        65.5    (1)        53_2        (1)        297.3
sociologist                          1/                                               _         (1)      53.2    (1)       53.2      (1)        44.3    (1)        44.3        (1)        195.0         o
Biometrician                         1/                                     (1)     53.2        (1)      53.2    (1)       44.3      (1)        44.3    (1)        44.3        (1)        239.3         3
Statistical Assistant                1/                                               -                   -                 -                    -       (1)       27.8        (1)         27.8
office Assistant                                             22.2                     -                   -                 -                    -       (1)       22.2        (1)         22.2
Stenographer                                                 22.2          (1)      22.2        (1)      22.2    (1)       22.2      (1)        22.2    (1)        22.2        (1)        111.0
Clerk/typist                                                 15.2                     -                   -       (1)      15.2       (1)       15.2    (1)        15.2        (1)         45.6
Driver                                                       12.2          (1)       12.2       (1)      12.2    (1)       12.2       (2)       24.4    (2)        24.4        (2)         85.4
Messenger                                                     9.1           (1)       9.1       (1)       9.1    (2)       18.2       (2)       18.2    (3)        27.3        (3)         81.9
Sub-total                                                         168.9                203.1             218.5                234.1              280.9                 1,105.5
III. OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Vehicle Running Expenses
Mini  4 x 4                                                                     20.0                 20.0              20.0                20.0                20.0                   100.0
Car                                                                              -                    -                 -                  30.0                50.0  2/                80.0
Utilities                                                                           20.0                 20.0              30.0                 40.0               60.0                   170.0
Surveys                                                                               -                  10.0              10.0                 20.0               40.0                    80.0
Office Expenses                                                                     40.0                 50.0              60.0                 90.0              120.0                   360.0
Building Maintenance                                                                  -                   -                19.9                 32.5               45.1                    97.5
Sub-total                                                          80.0                1.00.0            139.9                232.5              335.1                   887.5
IV.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                   248.9               303.1             358.4                466.6               616.0                 1,993.0
V. TOTAL AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIC
gESEARCH - TARNAB                                                             1,037.2                682.9             738.2               812.6               616.0                 3,886.9
1/    According to Unit Costs given in Table   14
2/    25,000 km. @  Rs. 2.00 per  km-  , due to extra use by Sociologist



Anex 9
Table 18
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURA17 URSEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL ECONIMICS RESEARCH UNIT -SARIAS
(Rs  000)
Area                             Year I             Year 2              Year 3             Year 4              Year 5              T o t a I
_q.  Ft.   Unit Cost           110.    Cost        No.      Cost      No.    Cost         No.      Cost      No.      Cost        No.         Cost
1. INVES1MENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
Office                                  760          0.297  1/                  -         (1)      225.7               -                    -                   -        (1)         225.7
House, III                            1,600          0.243  I/                  -         (2)      777.6               -         (1)      388.8                 -        (3)      1,166.4
House, IV                             1,000          0.243  1/                  -                    -                 -         (1)      243.0                 -        (1)        243.0
Utilities & Site
Development                                                                    -                 250.8                -                  158.0                -                    408.8
Consultancy Fees                                                                -                   69.0               -                   43.4                 -                   112.4
Sub-total                                                                       1,323.1                -                  833.2                 -                 2,156.3
B. Vehicles
Mini  4 x 4                                                                     -                    -       (1)      53.0                  -                   -        (1)          53.0
Car            Sub-total                                                        -(1)                                                      100.0                 -        (1)         100 0
Sub-total                                  -                   ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        ~~- 53.0  100.0  -  153.0
C.  Eguipment
Office                                                                          -                   60.0               -                   35.0                 -                     95.0
D.  Furniture                                                                         _                 75.0                                                                              75.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                               -               1,458.1               53.0               968.2                 -                  2,479.3
II. INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Senior Agricultural Economist
(in Year 6 only)                                                                  -                    -                 -                    -                   -         -            -
Agricultural Economist                                        2t                     -        (1)       53.2    (1)        53.2      (1)        53.2    (2)        88.6      (2)         248.2
Assistant Agricultural Economist                              j/            (1)    44.2       (1)       44.2    (1)        33.9      (1)       33.9                 -        (1)         156.2
Sociologist                                                   2/            (1)    53.2       (1)       53.2    (1)        44.3      (1)       44.3      (1)       44.3      (1)         239.3
Office Assistant                                             22.2                    -                   -                  -                    -       (1)       22.2      (1)          22.2
Stenographer                                                 22.2                    -                   -                  -        (1)       22.2    (1)         22.2      (1)          44.4
Clerk/typist                                                 15.2                    -                   -        (1)      15.2      (1)        15.2    (1)        15.2      (1)          45.6
Driver                                                       12.2                    -                   -        (1)      12.2      (2)       24.4    (2)         24.4      (2)          61.0
Messenger                                                     9.1                    -                    -       (2)      18.2      (2)        18.2    (3)        27.3      (3)          63.7
Sub-total                                                      97.4                150.6             177.0                211.4               244.2                  880.6
III. OTHER OPERATING COSTS
Vehicle Running Expenses
Mini  4x4            3                                                          -                    -                30.0                 30.0                30.0                   90.0
Car                                                                             -                    -                 -                   30.0                40.0                   70.0
Utilities                                                                            -                   -                 30.0                40.0                60.0                  130.0
Surveys                                                                              -                   -                 20.0                30.0                40.0                   90.0
Office Expenses                                                                      -                   -                 60.0                90.0               120.0                  270.0
Building Expenses                                                                    _                   _                  -                  43.9                71.5                  115.4
Sub-total                                                       -                    -               140.0                263.9              361.5                   765.4
IV.  TOTAL INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                   97.4                150.6             317.0                475.3               605.7               1,646.0
V.  TOTAL AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIC RESEARCH-
SARIAB                                                                            97.4              1,608.7             370.0              1,443.5               605.7                4,125.3
I/   Higher by 35% than in Islamabad
2/   According to Unit Costs given in Table 14
3/   15,000 km @ Rs. 2.00 per km.



An..ex 9
Table 19
PAKISTAN
AGRICUJLTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
AGRICULTIURAL ECONOMIC RESEARCH UNIT - TANDOJAM
(Rs '000)
Area                               Year I             Year 2             Year 3              Year 4             Year 5                T o t a I
Sq.  Ft.    Unit Cost          No.      Cost      No.    Cost        No.    Cost        No.      Cost       No.    Cost          No.       Cost
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  Civil Works
Office                                       760            0.220                        -       (1)    167.2                 -                   -                   -         (1)       167.2
Souse, III                                 1,600            0.180                        -       (1)    288.0       (2)    576.0                  -                   -         (3)       864.0
House, IV                                  1,000            0.160                        -                 -        (1)    160.0                  -                   -         (1)       160.0
Utilities & Site
Development                                                                          -               113.8              184.0                  -                  -                    297.8
Consultancy Fees                                                                         -                31.3               50.6                 -                   -                    81.9
Sub-total                                                                             600.3              970.6                 -                   -                 1,570.9
B.  Vehicles
Mini  4 x 4                                                                              -                 -        (1)      53.0                  -                  _         (1)        53.0
Car                                                                                      ---                                           (1)      100.0              ___(1)                 100.0
Sob-total                                                             -                 -                 53.0               100.0               _                     153.0
C. Equipment
Office                                                                                   -                60.0               35.0                  -                  -                    95.0
D.  Furniture                                                                                -                75.0                -                    -                  _                     75.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                       -               735.3            1,058.6                100.0                -                  1,893.9
11. INCREMENTAL STAFF COSTS
Senior Agricultural Econmaist                                      1/                        -                 -                   -                   -        (1)      53.2        (1)        53.2
Agricultural Econumist                                             1/              (1)      53.2    (1)       53.2      (1)      53.2       (1)       44.3      (1)      44.3        (1)       248.3
Assistant Agricultural Econ-ist                                   T/                          -       (1)     44.2       (1)      44.2      (1)       33.9                -          (1)       122.3
Biometrician                                                       1/              (1)      53.2    (1)       53.2      (1)      44.3       (1)       44.3      (1)      44.3        (1)       239.3
Statistical Assistant                                             T/                         -                 -         (1)     27.8       (1)       27.8      (1)      27.8        (1)        83.4
Office Assistant                                                 22.2                        -                 -                  -         (1)       22.2      (1)      22.2        (1)        44.4
Stenographer                                                     22.2                        -                 -                   -        (1)       22.2      (1)      22.2        (1)        44.4
Clerk/typist                                                      15.2                       -                  -        (1)      15.2      (1)       15.2      (1)      15.2        (1)        45.6
Junior Clerk                                                     12.2                        -                 -         (1)     12.2       (1)       12.2      (1)      12.2        (1)        36.6
Driver                                                            12.2                       -                 -         (1)     12.2       (2)       24.4      (2)      24.4        (2)        61.0
Messenger                                                          9.1                        _                 -        (1)       9.1      (3)       27.3      (3)      27.3        (3)        63.7
Sub-total                                                           106.4             150.6              218.3               273.8               293.1               1,042.2
III. OTHER OPERATING COSTS
vehicle Running Expenses
Mini  4 x 4                                                                              -                 -                 20.0                 20.0               20.0                   60.0
Car                                                                                                                           -                   30.0               40.0                   70.0
Utilities                                                                                    -                  -                 30.0                55.0                60.0                 145.0
Surveys                                                                                                                            -                  20.0               20.0                   40.0
office Expenses                                                                                                                   60.0               120.0              140.0                  320.0
Building Maintenance S b t                                                                                                                            19.9               52.1                   72.0
Sob-total                                                             -                 -                110.0               264.9               332.1                  707.0
Iv. TOTAL INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                           106.4              150.6              328.3               538.7               625.2               1,749.2
V. TOTAL AGRICULTURAL ECONOMIC RESEARCH-
TANDOJAM                                                                                106.4             885.9            1,386.9                638.7              625.2                3,643.1
l/    According to Unit Costs g4ven in Table   14



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Training and Technical Assistance
1/
Fellowships and Short-Term Training                                    Technical Assistance-
Overseas                          Local             Total
Ph.d        M.Sc.      Short   Sub-       Ph.d.        M.Sc.              Long    Short
Discipline              (3 yrs.)    (2 yrs.)    Term    Total    (3 yrs.)    (1 yr.)                 Term    Term    Total
-----------------------------------man years ----------------------------------------------
Plant Sciences           57.0          62.0       13.0    132.0        6.0         6.0      148.0      -       4,5     4,5
Animal Sciences           54.0         32.0        8.0     94.0         -           -        96.0      -       0,5     0.5
Plant Introduction         -             -         2.0      2.0         -           _         2.0      -       0,3     0.3
Oilseeds                 18.0,         16.0       12.0     46.0        9.0         6.0       66.0      -        _       2/
Cereal Diseases          24.0          12.0         -      36.0         -           _        36.0      -       0.5     0.5
Extension Methodology      -             -          -        -                                        2.0       -      2.0
Agric. Engineering         9.0          4.0        5.5     1£.5         _                    19.5     2.0      0.3     2.3
Agric. Economics          18.0         14.0        2.0     34.0         -          2.0       36.0     2.0      1.0      3.0   _
Research Inform            -             -          -        -                      -          -        -      0.8     0.8
PARC Lab. Equip. Maint.    -             -         1.5      1.5                               1.5      -       0.5      0.5
Administration             -             -                   -                                        2.0       -      2.0
Financial Management        -            -          -        -          -           -          -       -       4.0     4.0
Total                   180.0         140.0       44.0    364.0       15.0        14.0      405.0     8.0    12,4    20,4
1/ All recruited abroad except that for financial management.
2/ To be provided by CIDA.
oiE



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
FELLOWSHIP AND SHORT-TERN TRAINING
(Rs '000)
Unlit         YearlI                Year 2                 Year 3                Year 4              Year 5                 To0t al
(1.) Overseas                             cost         No.      Cost       No.       Cost         No-        Cost        No.      Cost        No.      Cost         No.          Cost
(a) Long Term                        178.2 2!      (24)   4,276.8    (36), 6,415.2            (19)     3,385.8      (2)        356.4     (2 )       356.4       (83)    14,790.6
1188 3/    (24)   2,851.2    (36)    4,276.8             (28)     3,326.4      (19)   2,257.2       (0 )            0      (107)     12,711.6           C
79 2 4/    (24)   1,900.8   (35)          2,772.0       (33)    2,613.6       (19)   1,504.8       (19)   1,504.8         (130)     10,296.
(b) Short Term                       26 7. 3 5/    (2)       534.6   (4)    1,069.2           (4)    1,069.2        (4 )   1,069.2       (3 )       801.9       (17 )       4,544.1
207.9 6!      (2)       415.8   (3)          623.7       (3 )        623:.7    (3 )       623.7     (3 )       623.7       (14 )       2,910.6
148.5 7/      (2)       297.0   (3           445.5       (3)        445.5    (3)         445.5    (3 )         445.5       (14 )       2,079.0
Sub-total Overseas                                  10,276.2             15,602.4               VI1,464. 2             6,256.8              3,732.3                  47-,331.9
(2) Local
Long Term                        45.0         (7 )       315.0   (12)         540.0      (6 )        270.0      (2 )       90.0    (0)              0      (27.0)      1,215.0
Sub-total Local                                         315.0               540.0                   270.0                 90.0                     0                  1,215.0
TOTAL TRAINING                                       10,591.2             16,142.4               11,734.2               6,346.8              3,732.3                  48,546.9
I/ Numbers based on Table 20.
2/Tn USA, or eouivalent ($18,000 per year x 3 for Ph U and x 2 for M Sc.).
3/In UK, or e3uivalent, ($12,000 per year x 3 for Ph D and x 2 for M Sc.).
4/Tn NZ, or erjuivaleot, ($ 8,000 per year x 3 for Ph U and x 2 for N Sc.).
5/in USA, or equivalent ($ 2,000 x 6 months + $1,500 airfare x 2 = $27,000 per year).
T/  n UK, or equivalenlt ($1,500 x 6 months + $1,500 airfare x 2 -$21,000 per year).
7/In HZ, or equivalent ($1,000 x 6 months + $1,500 airfare x 2 = $15,000 per year).



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(Rs '000)
Unit           Year 1             Year 2             Year 3             Year 4           Year 5                T  o t a I
Cost          No.     Cost       No.      Cost     No.    Cost      No.      Cost      No.     Cost         No.             Cost
Long-term                       792/yr 1/       (4)   3,168.0    (4)    3,168.0                   -                  -                 -      (8) 2/         6,336.0
Short-term                      950/yr 3/      (1.5)  1,425.0    (1.5)  1,425.0   (1.5)  1,425.0   (2.3)  2,185.0    (1.6)  1,520.0           (8.4) 2/       7,980.0
External Travel                 124/yr 4/      (10)   1,240.0    (10)   1,240.0   (6)         744.0   (10)   1,240.0   (8)        992.0       (44)           5,456.0
Sub-total                                      '   5,833.0             5,833.0           2,169.0           3,425.0           2,512.0                     19,772.0
Reimburseables                   60/yr 5/      (5.5)    330.0    (5.5)    330.0   (1.5)        90.0   (2.3)    138.0   (1.6)        96.0        (16.4)          984.0
Other Local Expenses
Local Consultants 6/            120/yr          (2)      240.0    (1)       120.0   (½)        60.0   (½)        60.0                  -        (4) 2/          480.0
Sub-total                                             570.0              450.0             150.0             198.0              96.0                      1,464.0
TOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                             6,403.0            6,283.0           2,319.0           3,623.0           2,608.0                     21,236.0
1/ $80,000 based on UNDP budgetary figure for personnel of required calibre.
2/ From Table 20                                                                                                                                                                  l
3/ UNDP bedgeting figure of $6,600/month adjusted upward to secure personnel of required 'calibre, equivalent to $96,000/person/year.
4/ One-way travel expense including air fare estimated at $1,250 per trip, rounded to Rs 124,000 without family.                                                                   M
5/ Calculated on basis of Rs 5,000 per month, per person, for internal travel, additional office expens,., etc.                                                                 aI
6/ For financial Management Services, calculated at Rs 10,000/person/month.



-82-
ANNEX 10
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
List of Material Available in Project File
Item 1    -    Coordinated Agricultural Research Planning System (CAREPLANS).
Item 2    -    Current Research Info-mation System of Pakistan (CRISP)
Item 3    -    Short Term Consultancy Requirements
Item 4    -    Cereal Diseases Research Institute - Research Program
Equipment List
Item 5    -    Plant Sciences Division - Research Program and Equipment
List
Item 6    -    Animal Sciences Division - Research Program and Equipment
List
Item 7    -    Oilseeds Division - Research Program and Equipment List
Item 8    -    Plant Introduction and Genetic Resources Division -
Research Program and Equipment List
Item 9    -    Agricultural Engineering Division - Research Program and
Equipment List
Item 10   -    research Information Unit - Equipment List
Item 11   -    Laboratory Equipment Maintenance and Repair Unit - Equipment
List
Item 12   -    Mid-Term Review - Draft Terms of Reference
Item 13   -    Research Subprojects Identified before Appraisal



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF PAKISTAN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH COUNCIL
Council
Chairman
Ek|   Me| be  Membe                                                                                              Member            Member
. Unit | . | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Resources                                                        Sciences          Sciences         Sc iences
UnitPlaannndn9                        Audit
and
Technical                                                          Project Implementation Unit       *
Procurement .   Personnel                               Services
l    l                            ~~~~~~~~~~~Financial
Management
Training and                        Services
| Information | | International
Liaison
World Bank - 22379



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
PROPOSED PARC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SERVICES (FMS)
| PARC     l
| Chairman l
Intrna Audi  r                                  FMS Division
Am~~Aui
Field      Haquarters                  conBde n
StationsFiac
Imprest   Bank         Bkk          Inventory
|  Funds  | | Accounts |    ] Bookkeepgn9 | | Control
World Bank - 22380



IBRD 1548
640                                  680                               /   720         U. S. S. R.          1,JANUARY  1981
PAKISTAN                                                                               L-  C                 CH I NA
MAIN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS                                                                \.' ,
AND                                                           .             7
AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES                                                               -'
RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS
NARC AND PARC                                                    *        C.                        .-.)    App--tomae Li nofC-ot,ro
PLANT, SOILS AND FORESTRY                                                ..  £ . .
ANIMALSCIENCEANDFISHERIES                                     N                                 (
MONA                                                                          Nowshera
AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES                                                           P       Tar           Mo:ro.
'>      ')g                          t  IsIatnab.ad.
iNDUS DELTA
SOUTHERN IRRIGATED PLAIN                                             N. W. F. P .
SANDY  DESERT (a&                             b) -,.j                                    Rawalpindi . s
NORTHERN IRRIGATED PLAIN (a & b)
BARANI LANDS
WET MOUNTAINS
NORTHERN DRY MOUNTAINS
WESTERN DRY MOUNTAINS
-32°                             DRY WESTERN PLATEAU                    A                                  /              o 
SULAIMAN PIEDMONT                                                    Khao         Sargoha           SI    K ak                 320
4 ~          {_              A;             /   ro               0/'          '
. RIVERS                                                          -                                Faisalabad    0  Lohore
0    MAIN TOWNS _
/              -   -  PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL                                                   A                            OSalwa
0UNDARIIES
CD/
IRAN         '-\                                                                    ( X                               j/I N  D  I A
-2'8.aoabd                                                                            1                                                                     8
.se  /   t.  | S I N  D  *         KILOMETERS 0          100        200       300
arrraaoi t  \        jMILES 0                                   100              200
)           T L<kwand               .           72U
/            0Mi,p.,khas...   4  ~ofoao
=KarK hi     yderabad                                                 R )e CHINA
6$49   //7                     )        s    ~~~~~~~~~~IRAN    l           
.240      ArobiGn              Seaf                                             2I
SAUDI   .              ~~~~~INDIA
7h-t oWh.a bo,WoAOadbyta  Wa okatoAffoXr4lWofyrf ,Wlh                                                           ARABIA   I
of ohn -. ofthe. pott  whh it a. ataed Th. d    -iao oddto                                                             - P
booe     oasas ont r h aot dbDera  -th epos -of he WoWld hok andita .                                            ,
oWat.o.f *nr is7est ODfhWe Jege atocaof aoy eatttayaXr osdaasaemat or      >                                                Atrz  Srcbiacn 5ea   
ooOetoo of suahh oeod.aJe                                                                                       -  9gX
64a                                         6aa 0                                            . w-)
_~~~~~~~~61 .                                                      i



