Document of                fjj    I       II
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3041-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
May 11, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -   Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1   -   Rs 9.90
Rs 1   -   IJS$0.101
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:              SDR 19.7 million (US$24 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Project              The objectives of the proposed project are to accelerate
Description:        the implementation of institutional reforms needed to
provide Pakistan with the quality agricultural research
it requires to exploit its production potential; provide
to federal and provincial institutes the physical and human
resources needed to plan, coordinate, support and conduct
research programs; and provide training and technical
assistance. The Credit would finance: (a) a headquarters
secretariat building for the Pakistan Agricultural Research
Council (PARC); (b) incremental staff and facilities for
the improvement of PARC's administration; especially
financial planning, procurement, audit, accounts, training,
technical assistance, personnel and management, project
implementation and supervision of construction of civil
works; (c) technical service units at PARC and at the
National Agricultural Research Center (NARC) for: collec-
tion, publication and dissemination of research information;
maintenance and repair of laboratory equipment; development
of the research station at NARC and supporting research
program development in plant sciences; animal sciences;
cereal diseases; oilseeds; agricultural engineering and
agricultural economics; (d) supporting agricultural
research subprojects conducted by non-PARC research
agencies; (e) overseas and local training to M.Sc. and
Ph.D. levels and for short career development courses
for research personnel; and (f) technical assistance in
management techniques and technical research program
development and for a mid-term review of project progress.
Risks pertaining to the appropriateness of project financed
research to farmers' needs and the level of cooperation
obtained from the provinces would be mitigated by close
linkages between farmers and the extension services and by
the provision of incentives to the provinces to encourage
their active participation in the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:        Items                        Local      Foreign      Total
---------US$ million-------
PARC
Administration                 2.48        0.79        3.27
Research Information           0.78        0.46        1.24
Laboratories Equipment
Maintenance                  0.23        0.14       0.37
Civil Engineering Unit         0.58        0.15       0.73
NARC
Station Development            1.26        0.54        1.80
Plant Sciences                 4.08        1.20        5.28
Animal Sciences                1.47        0.87        2.34
Plant Introduction             0.81        0.22        1.03
Oilseeds                       0.51        0.28       0.79
Cereal Oilseeds                0.24        0.15       0.39
Agricultural Engineering       0.78        0.36        1.14
Agricultural Economics Unit  1.41          0.55        1.96
Contractual Res. Grants        2.73        1.82       4.55
Training                       0.10        4.80       4.90
Technical Assistance           0.13        2.02        2.15
Mid-term Review                0.01        0.06        0.07
Total Base Cost               17.60       14.41      32.01
Physical Contingencies         0.88        0.54        1.42
Price Contingencies            3.80        2.82       6.62
Total Project Cost            22.28       17.77      40.05
Less Local Duties
and Taxes                    3.30        -          3.30
Total Project Cost Net
of Duties and Taxes         18.98      17.77       36.75
US$ million equivalent
Financing Plan:                                     Local      Foreign      Total
---------US$ million-------
IDA                            6.23      17.77       24.00
GOP                           16.05        -          16.05
22.28     17.77        40.05
Rate of Return:      Not applicable.
Estimated Disbursements:       IDA FY         FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
----------US$ million-----------
Annual                    1.8    6.6    7.0    4.7    3.9
Cumulative               1.8    8.4   15.4   20.1   24.0
Appraisal Report:   Pakistan Agricultural Research Project, April 1, 1981
Report No. 3242-PAK.
Map:                 IBRD 15488



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 19.7 million (US$24 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an agricultural research
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (No. 3328-PAK, dated April 10, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 20, 1981.
3.        The past three to four years have witnessed a significant economic
recovery in Pakistan. GDP growth during FY78, FY79 and FY80 averaged over
6% p.a. This growth has been accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and
industrial production well above the rate of population growth, currently
averaging 3% p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in
real terms by 11% in FY78, 20% in FY79, and 22% during FY80. Value added in
agriculture rose by 6% in FY80 following increases of 4.2% in FY79 and 2.5% in
FY78, and in industry by 8.1% in FY80 following 9.2% growth in FY78 and 4.2%
in FY79. This performance contrasts markedly with the economic stagnation of
the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP averaged only 3-4% and goods
production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was negligible.
4.        The prospects for continuing economic improvements during the cur-
rent year--FY81--appear to be promising. Overall GDP is expected to grow by
about 5%, with continued increases in agricultural and industrial production
and in exports. Following a number of favorable recent developments, includ-
ing an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF, a short-term debt
rescheduling arrangement with bilateral creditors of the Pakistan Consortium
and improved external aid inflows, both the budget and the balance of payments
are under reasonable control and the short-term economic outlook has consider-
ably improved.
5.        The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather, improved foreign demand for Pakistan's
exports and higher domestic demand associated with better crops, rising rural
incomes and workers' remittances from the Middle East. Various policy changes
introduced by the Government have also contributed significantly to the recovery.
6.        In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices; and
efforts have been made to improve the fertilizer distribution system by



- 2 -
expanding the marketing network and by ensuring adequate supplies and timely
delivery of fertilizer imports. Steps have been taken to reduce the fertilizer
subsidy (which has been creating budgetary problems) and by separating it from
the development budget for agriculture in order to protect allocations for
other priority agricultural projects and programs. An Agricultural Pricing
Commission has been recently set up to make recommendations on appropriate
changes in crop support and input prices on a consistent and timely basis.
7.        In addition, the Government has begun to address the deep-seated
problems affecting productivity at the farm level. A start has been made in
improving extension services through the adoption of the so-called training
and visit system. Preliminary reforms have been initiated to the agricultural
research system in line with the findings of a recent USAID/World Bank study.
The Government has also formulated and begun to implement a new agricultural
policy based on the main recommendations of a recently completed UNDP study on
irrigated agriculture, which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of
the water delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and
better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand the role
of the private sector, for example, through the promotion of private tubewell
development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesticides, seeds,
agricultural credit and farm power--have also been strengthened. These
initiatives are still at an early stage and a breakthrough from the problems
of low productivity at the farm level is yet to take place.
8.        Major changes have been made during the past three years in Govern-
ment policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the early and
mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the private
sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead industrial
investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricultural proces-
sing and some industrial units have been denationalized; constitutional
safeguards have been provided to private industry against further arbitrary
government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector have been
widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise and import
duty concessions, concessionary credit and income tax provisions, and direct
cash rebates have been granted to encourage private investment and exports.
These have been supplemented by a partial liberalization of imports which will
improve the availability of inputs. The investment sanctioning procedure has
been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement in private sector
confidence and to a sharp increase in proposals for relatively smaller-scale
private investment projects; there is also evidence of increased interest by
investors in larger projects, especially in cement, chemicals and fertilizer
subsectors.
9.        At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public sector, which has been plagued
by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been completed of the
management and organization of the public sector, and the performance of indi-
vidual enterprises. In accordance with the recommendations of these studies,
the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been abolished, the number of
sector holding corporations has been reduced, and boards of directors have
been established which have helped to increase autonomy at the enterprise
level. Some public sector units which have little prospect of improved



- 3 -
financial performance have been closed down. These measures, together with
additions to capacity and steps to retain skilled technical personnel through
salary adjustments, for example in the fertilizer subsector, have helped to
increase production and capacity utilization substantially in the public
industrial sector. In addition to the denationalizations mentioned earlier,
further public disinvestment is being considered on a case-by-case basis.
10.       The higher level of economic activity during the past three years
and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new taxes
and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. Nevertheless,
the budget remained under strain as expenditures rose as rapidly as revenues.
The Government's policies of encouraging production and exports through
subsidized inputs and export rebates, and the political and social constraints
to making substantial price adjustments on a number of items of mass consump-
tion, inflated subsidies. Rising debt service, following the expiration at
the end of FY78 of the four-year debt relief arrangement with member countries
of the Pakistan Consortium, and increased defense spending contributed to the
growth in non-development expenditures. In addition, commitments under the
ongoing public investment program and higher subsidies for agriculture led to
further increases in development spending between FY77 and FY79. Despite the
increased revenues, the overall budget deficit remained around 8% of GNP and
the bank-financed deficit around 3-4% of GNP.
11.       The budgetary situation improved significantly during FY80.  Govern-
ment revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79, rose by a
further 25% in FY80 as a result of the continued growth of the economy, tax
and tariff increases announced in the FY80 budget, and intensified efforts to
improve tax collections. Although political developments outside Pakistan's
borders led to unplanned expenditures, tight restraints were maintained on
total spending; the growth of public expenditures was limited to 12%. Both
development and administrative expenditures were cut back, while subsidies
other than those on farm inputs were held to the previous year's level in
nominal terms. These restraints on expenditures, continued revenue growth and
some improvement in surpluses generated by public sector agencies helped to
increase the availability of non-inflationary domestic resources. The overall
budget deficit declined from 8.4% of GNP in FY79 to 5.9% in FY80; and domestic
bank borrowing from 4.1% of GNP to 2.5%. This improvement is likely to be
maintained during FY81. The overall budget deficit is expected to be around
4.2% of GNP in FY81 and the bank-financed budget deficit around 1.2%, both
well below the ratios attained in FY80.
12.       Pakistan's export performance has improved considerably in recent
years. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578 million
in FY77 to over US$1.7 billion in FY80, have also greatly assisted in the
external position. These increases have, however, been offset by a rapid
increase in the value of imports, mainly POL, fertilizer, edible oil and
capital goods. The current account deficit was US$1,150 million or 4% of
GNP in FY80, compared to US$1,050 million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in
current prices. The financing of these deficits had presented considerable
difficulties to the Government during the past few years, since program-type
assistance from OPEC countries (which was substantial in the mid-1970s) as
well as net aid flows from Consortium sources declined through FY79. However,



- 4 -
a strong upsurge of remittances during FY80, a marginal increase in net
long-term capital inflows and substantial extraordinary receipts from OPEC
countries (including a US$200 million loan from Saudi Arabia for the Zakat
(Islamic welfare) Fund and US$220 million in deposits with the State Bank of
Pakistan) eased the external financing problem in the second half of FY80
and helped to build up foreign exchange reserves to about US$750 million at
the end of FY80, the equivalent of six weeks' imports.
13.       The slight improvement in the balance of payments situation during
FY80 has been followed by a number of favorable developments during FY81.
These have included the conclusion of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement
with the International Monetary Fund in November 1980; a positive response
from aid donors to the country's improved economic performance resulting
in increased aid commitments and inflows; an agreement with bilateral credi-
tors in the Pakistan Consortium for rescheduling of debt service payments
on official concessional debt falling due over an 18-month period beginning
mid-January 1981; continued good performance of major crops and exports;
and a further surge in remittances, which are expected to exceed US$2 billion
this fiscal year. These developments have substantially altered the balance
of payments outlook for FY81. While the current account deficit is expected
to widen sharply to about US$1.6 billion as a result of the recent liberali-
zation of the import regime, the additional support available from the IMF
and other sources is expected to limit the financing gap to about US$189
million, a level which could be financed from reserves.
14.       The recent favorable developments represent modest, though welcome,
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are limiting economic
growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its recently
improved economic performance over the present decade and bring about a modest
improvement in the living standards of its population. These issues include
the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the struc-
ture and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to improve per-
formance of public sector enterprises; the factors lying behind continued
rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service expenditures;
and the problems of resource mobilization.
15.       Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Despite recent
improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental factors continue to
limit agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied by
the resources and technologies already available. Generally, output growth
has not been commensurate with the substantial increases in available inputs,
especially water and fertilizer. While considerable potential still exists
for the additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears essential to
give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and programs which
would have a direct impact on yields at the farm level. The importance of
increasing farm productivity is now more widely recognized in the Government
and a beginning has been made in addressing this problem. Nevertheless,
support for programs to strengthen research, extension, water management and



other programs in the agricultural and water sectors needs to be intensified,
while fertilizer subsidies must be further reduced, accompanied by necessary
adjustments in output and consumer prices.
16.       Industry contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in manufacturing
production, though recently better, remain well below those attained in the
1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts for nearly 40% of
value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from problems of ineffi-
ciency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in foreign markets,
while manufacturing growth has been generally affected by the inadequate
performance of public sector enterprises. Although there have been some
recent improvements in the output and profitability of public enterprises,
these improvements need to be carried further through appropriate reforms to
remove distortions in pricing, improve performance criteria and incentives to
managers and to further rationalize the sector. To assist and further encour-
age the recovery in private investment which now seems to be taking place and
to maintain the increased momentum in the industrial sector will require,
among other things, an adequate supply of local and foreign financing both
for investments and current inputs and the more rapid provision of necessary
utilities and other infrastructure requirements. At the same time, it is
necessary to ensure that the Government's incentive system supports those
industries in which Pakistan has a comparative advantage; more analysis
is needed to determine levels of effective protection for formulating an
appropriate industrial development strategy for the 1980s. The recovery
in industry also needs to be reinforced by improvements in labor-management
relations and by further measures to rehabilitate the textile industry
and generally to increase exports.
17.       The Government's effort to deal with the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by the
development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources as well as by
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector has
been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign private
companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geological and other
reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as the development of
existing fields, has been slow; and the benefits of Pakistan's considerable
potential in the oil and gas sector is yet to be realized. A number of issues
relating to such matters as energy planning, pricing and organization will
need to be addressed in order to realize this potential.
18.       While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also neceasary to contain the rapid growth in popula-
tion, currently running at about 3% p.a., which has seriously handicapped the
country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning programs have
so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the socio-economic
environment of a type that usually accompany declines in fertility. Rapid
population growth places severe burdens on Government resources simply to
maintain education and health programs at their current inadequate standards.
However, without higher literacy rates, improved health facilities and a



- 6 -
reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates can
be much reduced. Expenditures on social services remain comparatively low and
undue emphasis has been given to higher education and urban health facilities.
High priority needs to be given not only to increased allocations for family
planning and social service expenditure but also to its redirection to serve
the wider interests of the population and the economy. While the substantial
migration from Pakistan to the Middle East over the past few years has to some
extent relieved the pressures resulting from rapid population growth, this
clearly cannot be relied upon to provide an answer to the situation in the
long run. The Government has recently shown more awareness of this problem; a
new population program has been adopted and is in the initial stages of imple-
mentation.
19.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments, a
fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the eco-
nomy, particularly in public savings. Although national savings at around
12% of GNP are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s,
there has been little further improvement over the past few years. The con-
tinuation of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending and
encourage private investment will help to reduce present imbalances between
investment and savings flows, while increased opportunities for private
investment should attract resources from less productive uses. At the same
time, an increase in savings inevitably calls for restraining private con-
sumption through appropriate price adjustments and selective duty increases on
non-essential imports. While the Government has made several price increases
in the recent past, further adjustments will directly reduce the budgetary
burden of subsidies. Continued restraints on development spending and mea-
sures to further improve revenues through improvements in tax administration
and tax and rate increases (for example, property taxes, domestic water rates
and irrigation water charges) are also needed.
20.       Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses, pota-
toes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring countries.
In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's exports of
manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as well as of a
wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industries sector.  Increased
domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels and fertilizar
would help to moderate import growth considerably.
21.       External public debt outstanding at the end of FY80, excluding the
undisbursed pipeline, amounted to about US$8.7 billion, of which US$5 billion
was owed to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.3 billion to
OPEC, US$1.5 billion to multilateral agencies, and the balance to other
bilateral and private lenders. Following the termination of the multi-year
debt relief agreement in FY78, debt service including short-term interest
payments rose sharply to about US$500 million in FY79 and US$600 million in
FY80. Debt service payments in FY81 and FY82 are presently projected at about



- 7 -
US$700 million and US$740 million, respectively, after taking into account the
effects of the recent short-term debt rescheduling agreement with bilateral
members of the Pakistan Consortium. As a proportion of exports, non-factor
service receipts and workers' remittances, debt service was about 13% in FY80.
Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY80 was about 13% of its
external public indebtedness. The share of the Bank Group in debt service
is now about 9%.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Through FY80, 38% of total Bank/IDA commitments
to Pakistan were for public utility services, 30% for agriculture, 31% for
industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for education.
Lending for public utility services has included loans and credits for rail-
ways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways, telecommunications and
water supply.
23.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to support
the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are responsible for,
the principal public services supporting economic growth; and thirdly, to meet
basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
24.       In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of essen-
tial inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and water-
logging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, livestock
development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending is to
assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of available land
and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding investments, as
recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was Executing
Agency.
25.       In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven loans/credits amounting to US$270 million
for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). Direct
lending for industry has been limited to three large fertilizer plants. Proj-
ects are envisaged for further increasing domestic fertilizer capacity, as well
as for small-scale industry. IFC has made investments in 13 Pakistan enter-
prises for a total of US$70.2 million, of which US$60.7 million was by way of
loans and US$9.5 million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex



- 8 -
II). About US$35.9 million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted
by IFC include three in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles
and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers, food processing, plastics, wood
processing and petrochemicals. IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
26.       The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the insti-
tutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, Telephone and Telegraph Department, and Federal and Provin-
cial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has assisted the
Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects respectively; the sector has
also been assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin Development
Program of Mangla and Tarbela dams.
27.       In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has recently financed a pet-
roleum development project and begun to play an important role in strengthen-
ing the Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assisting in
the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy
resources. In the field of urban development, Bank Group missions have worked
with the municipal planning authorities of Karachi and Lahore, Pakistan's major
cities, and following UNDP and IDA-financed technical assistance efforts, a
project is now under preparation for Lahore. A second water supply project
in Lahore is currently under implementation. Five IDA credits for education,
totaling US$62.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary
and higher technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of
primary teachers and agricultural extension agents.
28.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of February 28, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some projects
have experienced initial delays due to government procedures for project
approval, which are now being strengthened, and to slowness in appointment
of consultants. The Government has recently increased the rates charged by
some public utilities to improve their financial position. Rapid turnover of
managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle East,
and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some projects.
29.       A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
oil and gas development, water management and irrigation and flood rehabili-
tation. Pakistan continues to have domestic resource constraints for the
reasons set out in Part I. To assist the Government to finance agricultural
and other high-priority projects which have a low foreign exchange component,
financing of some local expenditures in specific cases, as in the one now
proposed, is justified.
30.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan
on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance
within the Pakistan Consortium.



-9-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
31.       The total area of Pakistan is 79 million ha of which about 19 million
ha are cultivable. Of the cropped area about 6 million ha are farmed under
rainfed farming systems ("barani" areas) and 13 million ha are irrigated from
a 64,000 km network of canals and 179,000 tubewells. There are only 3 million
ha of exploitable forest. About 70% of farmers cultivate holdings of less
than 5 ha and 40% of holdings are less than 3 ha. These small farms occupy
12% of available cropping area. Sixty percent of farmers rent all or part of
their land, mostly on a share cropping basis.
32.       Agriculture is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy.  It accounts
for about 30% of Pakistan's GDP, employs about 55% of the total labor force
of 23 million, and directly or indirectly provides 70% of the country's
exports, principally rice and cotton. Arable crops provide 69%, livestock
28% and fishing and forestry 3% of agricultural GDP. Irrigated areas are
the origin of 90% of farm output. The complex irrigation system based on
the Indus river constitutes the largest integrated irrigation system in the
world.
33.       Agriculture production grew substantially during the late 1960s (the
growth rate in value-added averaging about 6% per year) as a result of a rapid
increase in the use of improved wheat and rice varieties and fertilizer, as
well as rapid private tubewell development. There was a marked slowdown, how-
ever, during the period FY70-77, with the rate of growth averaging below 2%
per year and remaining below the 3% population growth rate. This slowdown of
the agricultural sector had a depressing effect on rural incomes, GDP and
export earnings, contributing significantly to the massive growth in the trade
deficit. Several years of adverse weather contributed substantially to this
disappointing performance. Other contributing factors included inadequate
price incentives; poor water management within the Indus system; pest and
disease problems; and a deterioration in many supporting agricultural services
including credit, extension, and research. During the last three years,
growth performance has been encouraging: value added in agriculture increased
by 2.5% in FY78, 4.2% in FY79 and about 6% in FY80. Reasonably good cotton
crops in two of the last three years, a recovery in wheat in FY79 following a
rust attack in the preceding year, and consistently good rice harvests have
contributed to this growth in agricultural output. While much of this can be
explained by favorable weather, there are also signs that the recent changes
initiated by the Government (see paragraphs 6 and 7) are beginning to take
effect.
34.       In part, the recent growth in agricultural output represents a
rebound from depressed crops in the case of cotton and wheat, and in part
the effects of continued acreage expansion, particularly in rice and wheat.
The acreage under rice increased by 15% between FY77 and FY79 and under wheat
by 5% over the same period. There was also a modest improvement in per-hectare
yields of some crops. While per-hectare yields in wheat rose sharply in FY79
over the depressed level of the previous year, the improvement over the more



- 10 -
normal level of FY77 was 3%, and in rice about 4%. "Per-hectare yields in
cotton have been erratic from year to year and do not provide a clear trend,
while per-hectare yields in sugarcane have declined. The recent increases in
agricultural output thus do not represent a major breakthrough from the
problems of low productivity constraining Pakistan's agriculture.
35.       An objective of GOP's Fifth Five-Year Plan is a 6% annual growth
rate for agriculture. Growth in livestock production is expected, but the
major emphasis will be on larger crops through increased yield. This will
itself depend on increasing the availability and use of water, drainage, fer-
tilizer and other inputs, improving land tenure systems so as to reduce
share-cropping, setting farm gate prices at levels which encourage production,
and improving flood control. It will also depend on improving the technology
of agricultural production. While for the irrigated areas there is still
considerable room for the adoption of proven technologies, there is ample
evidence to suggest that the local store of yield-increasing technology will
be exhausted shortly and that better techniques will be needed for dealing
with pressing problems such as salinity, water loss from irrigation channels,
insect attack and plant diseases. These techniques can be generated through
an agricultural research system that is effectively integrated to obtain
nationwide results.
36.       Bank staff have been working with GOP for some time to develop a
detailed program of reform in the agricultural and water sectors, leading to
a revised sector investment strategy. A "Revised Action Program for Agricul-
ture and Water Development," the outcome of a three-year study financed by
UNDP, for which the Bank was Executing Agency, was completed in mid-1979. The
study has highlighted the past deficiencies in government agricultural policies
and proposed a revised strategy designed, within the context of continuing
resource constraints, to release existing resources for higher priority pur-
poses and generating new resources through quick-yielding investments. The
recommendations of the UNDP study can be grouped into three major categories:
(a) adjustment of pricing and subsidy policies, to reflect real resource costs
more accurately; (b) management policies to enable the transfer of responsibil-
ity to the private sector for appropriate operations and facilities now in the
public sector's domain; and (c) revised investment policies to facilitate quick
returns and complement the major irrigation facilities already provided rather
than create new infrastructural facilities or extend the irrigated area. The
report emphasizes water management, extension services, agricultural research,
seed certification, animal husbandry and the provision of appropriate rural
infrastructure. The Government of Pakistan has accepted the principal conclu-
sions of the UNDP study and initial steps have been taken to implement some
of its major recommendations, including improved institutional coordination
between irrigation and agriculture and increased emphasis on improving water
management, extension, credit, research and seed supply. A start has also been
made in reducing input subsidies, notably on fertilizer and pesticides, and
adjusting support prices to maintain farmer incentives. Under the Fertilizer
Imports Credit (1066-PAK) signed in October 1980, the Government has agreed to
continue this policy with the aim of eliminating the fertilizer subsidy by
1985. An Agricultural Prices Commission is being established to carry out
pricing reviews and to recommend appropriate adjustment.



- 11 -
Agricultural Research
37.       The agricultural research system in Pakistan is complex.  Research,
high level manpower training, planning and coordination are responsibilities
of the Federal Government; but under the Constitution, responsibility for agri-
culture has been delegated to the provinces. The result has been that most
agricultural research which is applied or adaptive in nature is controlled by
the provinces while more fundamental research has remained with the Federal
Government. The position is further complicated by the fact that responsibil-
ity for agricultural research on a national basis is distributed among several
ministries and semi-autonomous institutions such as the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, Food and Corporatives, Ministry of Water and Power, Ministry of Education,
Ministry of Commerce and Atomic Energy Commission.
38.       Public budgetary allocation for agricultural research in 1978/79
was about Rs 277 million or 0.5% of the contribution of the agricultural sector
to GDP. In more industrialized nations, and in India, this figure is closer
to 1.5%. According to the World Bank policy paper on agricultural research
systems in countries where agriculture is the key economic sector, an expen-
diture of 2% of agricultural GDP on research is appropriate. 1/
39.       The Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC) is an autonomous
body working in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Cooperatives, provincial Agricultural Departments, agricultural institutes
and the agricultural universities, under the chairmanship of a scientist who
serves concurrently as Secretary, Agricultural Research Division in the Ministry
of Agriculture, Food and Cooperatives of the Federal Government. The Council
consists of 30 members, including scientists, vice chancellors of the agricul-
tural universities, directors of the main research institutes and farmers.
There is an Executive Board consisting of a chairman and four other full-time
members representing plant sciences, animal sciences, social sciences, and
finance, which reports to the Council at two meetings each year. PARC operates
a number of research institutes. Some are well established; others are in the
process of being established. The National Agricultural Research Center (NARC),
the principal operational arm of PARC, is located near Islamabad, and is in the
process of being developed on 560 ha into a national center for research in
plant and animal production. Working in cooperation with the research insti-
tutes and agricultural universities within the provinces, PARC has developed a
number of commodity-oriented research projects. The aims of the programs are
coordinated attacks on national problems through cooperative planning, coor-
dinated resource allocation, and provision of leadership in the planning and
execution of research programs. The projects so far financed by PARC cover
wheat, barley, triticale, rice, maize, millet and sorghum, forage and fodder,
oilseeds, vegetables and potatoes. Other projects, covering additional crops,
soils, agronomy, agricultural engineering and animal sciences are contemplated.
Funds also provided through PARC for collaborative research programs support
individual scientists working on priority research problems.
1/   "Agricultural Research Systems" - Sector Policy Paper - Report No. 2966,
April 18, 1980.



- 12 -
40.       PARC's financing comes from funds collected by the Customs Depart-
ment as a cess on agricultural products, regular budgetary allocations of
funds provided by GOP, PL 480 funds and other sources of development assis-
tance, primarily USAID.
41.       Agricultural research is also conducted by the Pakistan Central
Cotton Committee; Pakistan Tobacco Board; Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission;
Water and Power Development Authority; Department of Plant Protection
(Karachi); Soil Survey of Pakistan; Pakistan Science Foundation; Pakistan
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research; Council for Irrigation, Drain-
age and Flood Control; Pakistan Forestry Institute; and the Leather Board.
42.       Each of the four provinces has an agricultural research institute
and substations. In addition, some have commodity oriented institutes. Punjab
and Sind have agricultural universities, and NWFP has a faculty of agriculture
as part of the provincial university, and all these teaching institutions are
conducting limited agricultural research programs.
43.       Most agricultural research in Pakistan is applied or adaptive in
nature. Except for some programs at specialized institutions, there is little
emphasis on the more fundamental aspects of the problems studied. Research on
grain crops has received highest priority and has tended to concentrate on
breeding and selection of new varieties. Plant introduction has been largely
unorganized. Research workers have tended to confine their activities to the
research stations rather than become involved in verifying their findings on
farmers' fields or in different agro-ecological zones.
44.       Several constraints exist to the development of fully effective
agricultural research in Pakistan. Better coordination between research
institutions is needed to avoid duplication of efforts; adequate and reliable
funding is essential if long-term research programs are to produce useful
results; careers in research need to be more professionally rewarding; and
libraries and scientific information services need to be improved. The
proposed project attempts to address these various problems.
45.       The extension services have been another weak aspect of the agricul-
tural sector in Pakistan. A revitalization of extension services is essential
and has been started by the introduction of the Training and Visit extension
system in selected districts in Sind and Punjab through IDA-financed projects.
In order to make research programs responsive to the nation's and farmers'
needs, closer linkages are required between research scientists and extension
workers. The proper foci for these linkages are the provincial research
institutes and their substations which are primarily involved in applied and
adaptive research; the IDA-financed extension projects include provision for
strengthening such research and the application of research results at the
field level. However, a closer association is also required between the
centralized research activities and the extension services. Currently PARC
is promoting this association by seminars, workshops, publications and coop-
erative research projects which involve both professional staff and members
of the farmer community, and these efforts will be continued.



- 13 -
46.       Several international organizations have been involved in the develop-
ment of agricultural research in Pakistan; notably USAID, which has supported
PARC and the establishment of a central management system for research. USAID
has also provided effective assistance to NARC and the Mona Reclamation Scheme
which is designed to establish technologies for improved irrigation water
management. The ADB has helped in the setting up of the Maize and Millets
Research Institute in NWFP. The Pakistan Forestry Research Institute, the
Vertebrate Pest Control Laboratory, Poultry Research Institute and the Cotton
Research Institute, Multan, have received assistance from UNDP/FAO. IRRI is
cooperating with GOP in the establishment of an Agricultural Machinery Unit in
Islamabad. Ford Foundation is helping PARC in agricultural economics research
and documentation. The universities have received aid from UNESCO and from US
universities. The Bank has provided support to the Agricultural Universities
of Faisalabad and Tandojam, and to adaptive research in Punjab and Sind, in
connection with its lending for education and for agricultural extension and
development respectively.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       Recognizing the need to strengthen the agricultural research system
in Pakistan, GOP requested the Bank and USAID in 1979 to organize an inter-
national team to review the agricultural research subsector. A mission, under
the leadership of Sir Charles Pereira, visited Pakistan in October 1979, and
the report of this mission recommended policy objectives and a strategy for
the development of research, the essential elements of which have been accepted
by GOP. The proposed project was prepared by the Pakistan Agricultural
Research Council (PARC) with assistance from FAO/CP. The project was appraised
in September/October, 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. during
March 9-16, 1981. The Pakistan delegation was led by Mr. Ihsanul Haq, Economic
Minister, Embassy of Pakistan. A Report entitled "Pakistan--Staff Appraisal
Report--Agricultural Research Project (Report No. 3242-PAK, dated April 1,
1981) is being circulated to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data
sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
48.       The proposed project aims to:  (a) accelerate the implementation
of the institutional reforms needed to provide Pakistan with the quality
agricultural research it requires to exploit its considerable production
potential; (b) provide to federal and provincial institutes, the physical
and human resources needed to plan, coordinate, support and conduct research
programs of high priority; and (c) provide training and technical assistance.
49.       The proposed project seeks to assist the strategy outlined in the
subsector review and would constitute the first step in a longer term pro-
gram to improve agricultural research in Pakistan. It would concentrate
on developing the capabilities of PARC and NARC in order that they can provide
the strong federal leadership that is required to obtain the full cooperation
of the provincial research systems and to permit the coordination of the
national research effort. With this achieved, a second stage project to



- 14 -
increase the research capabilities of provincial institutions would be a
logical future development.
Project Description
50.       The project would comprise:
(a) Strengthening PARC as a national apex research coordinating
agency by providing: (i) a headquarters secretariat build-
ing; and (ii) incremental staff and facilities for PARC
administration; especially financial planning, procurement,
audit, accounts, training, technical assistance, personnel
management, and supervision of construction of civil works;
(b) Strengthening PARC's ability to provide specialized assistance
to research agencies and workers by establishing service units
for: (i) collection, publication and dissemination of research
information; and (ii) maintenance and repair of laboratory
equipment;
(c) Strengthening the capability of NARC and other research
institutions by developing the research station at NARC
and supporting research program development in: (i) plant
sciences; (ii) animal sciences; (iii) cereal diseases;
(iv) oilseeds; (v) agricultural engineering; and (vi) agri-
cultural economics;
(d) Supporting a contractual agricultural research grant scheme
for research subprojects at non-PARC research agencies;
(e) Funding overseas and local training to M.Sc. and Ph.D. levels
for research workers as well as short career development
courses; and
(f) Funding long and short-term technical assistance in manage-
ment techniques and technical research program development,
and for a mid-term review of project progress.
Construction of PARC's Headquarters
51.       A headquarters secretariat building would be constructed, at a site
to be provided by GOP, to enable PARC staff to be housed in a single building
and to provide the necessary facilities for it to operate effectively as the
national research coordinating agency. The headquarters building would
provide office space for 270 staff members, an auditorium, committee meeting
rooms, a small library, a cafeteria and other facilities. Housing for essential
staff would also be constructed on sites to be provided by GOP in Islamabad.
Administrative and Technical Support
52.       The present PARC staff would be inadequate for the implementation
of the enlarged program envisaged under the project. Incremental staff



- 15 -
positions would be financed for the following units: Project Implementation,
Procurement, Financial Management, Civil Engineering, Training and Technical
Assistance Support, Secretariat and Chairman's Office. Design and supervision
of the buildings included in the project would be the responsibility of a
consulting architect/engineer with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to IDA and the final design would be approved by IDA (Section 3.02 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). PARC has agreed to employ, by September
30, 1981, in its Civil Engineering unit, three engineers and three overseers
to supervise project civil works (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Project Agree-
ment).  The problems of inadequate library facilities and maintenance of
laboratory equipment would be addressed by establishing two technical support
units.  A unit would be set up at PARC which would be equipped for dissemina-
tion of information, data storage, data retrieval, publication and publicity.
This unit would have access to the library at NARC and maintain contact with
libraries in other institutes and universities. It would supply abstracts,
current specialized literature and copies of requested articles. A central
service for instrument maintenance and repair with a ready supply of spare
parts to keep laboratory equipment in operation would also be established
under the proposed project. The incremental cost of professional and support
staff, vehicles, office equipment and operating expenses for these units would
be included in the project.
Farm Development at NARC
53.       NARC is the main research institution of PARC.  It is being developed
to provide scientific support for applied and adaptive research at other
institutions in Pakistan and also as the site where research can be initiated
on topics that are of national relevance and are not suitable for or covered
by the provincial programs. Development of NARC, located 8 km from Islamabad,
was started under the USAID project. Some roads, irrigation canals and land
leveling have been completed and some temporary buildings constructed. It
is expected that the auditorium, hostel, office blocks, cafeteria, training
center, documentation center and library facilities, 12 housing units and six
laboratories will be provided through the ongoing USAID project before July,
1981. The proposed project includes 7.5 km of watercourses, 8 km of roads,
greenhouses, machinery and storage sheds, a second hostel and 77 housing units
for essential staff.
Research Program Development
54.       The proposed project would include incremental staff, vehicles,
office accommodation and equipment, laboratories, incremental operating expenses
and farm implements for expanded programs in plant sciences, animal sciences,
cereal diseases, oilseeds, agricultural engineering and agricultural economics.
The research program in plant sciences would be expanded to include drought,
cold and salt tolerance in cereals, production of new crop varieties, pulses
and forage. Research in plant physiology would be initiated on problems of
environmental stress on crops, trace element deficiencies and nitrogen fixation.
The highest priority in livestock research would be on studying ways and means
of increasing output of animal products and providing basic data on village
farm practices. For this purpose, the project would establish a livestock
farm center with 200 breeding animals at NARC, and a laboratory center, also



- 16 -
at NARC, for animal nutrition, disease diagnosis, animal breeding, milk and
meat technology and fish biology. On cereal diseases, more detailed studies
would be initiated on the epidemiology of wheat rust disease and diseases of
rice, maize and sorghum. The introduction of new oilseed crops (safflower,
sunflower, etc.) and the quality and protein content of oilseeds and pulses
would be studied with a view to assist in achieving higher domestic production
of edible oil. A new division for plant introduction and genetic resources
and a new Agricultural Engineering Division to test new agricultural equipment
would be established at NARC. Five agricultural economic research units would
be established, one at NARC and one in each province to study the economic
viability of new agricultural technology, the economics of input use, farm
management and factors restricting crop yields.
Contractual Research Grant Scheme
55.       The aim of the contractual research grant scheme (CRGS) would be to
continue the development of cooperative research efforts at institutions other
than those controlled by PARC. Three types of activity would be supported:
(i) Coordinated Research Projects. These would be generated by PARC's esta-
blished system. Financial support would be available for the expansion of
existing coordinated research projects and for initiating similar projects on
other commodities or production factors. (ii) Research Subprojects. These
would be substantial projects proposed by institutions desiring to establish
priority research programs in selected areas. Among others, research on
poultry, water management, artificial insemination and inland fisheries would
be included. (iii) Ad hoc Research Schemes. These would be relatively small
research programs, aimed mainly at supporting distinguished and proven scien-
tists proposing to study problems of national importance.
56.       All non-PARC research institutions in Pakistan would be eligible
to submit proposals for financing under CRGS. PARC would act as trustee of
the funds for the subprojects and would prepare, review and approve them in
accordance with guidelines and procedures satisfactory to the Association
(Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreement). The procedures would be
designed to ensure that only priority research topics under the control of
competent scientists who agree to PARC supervision would be supported. PARC
already supports a series of coordinated research projects and a number of
smaller-scale projects under a contractual research scheme financed mainly
by PL 480 funds. GOP would continue to support these research programs at
adequate levels of funding (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Priority would be given to subprojects which are national in
outlook and which merit immediate attention. In the long run, priority
research areas for which PARC would be prepared to consider subproject pro-
posals would be identified in relation to the national research plan at present
being produced by PARC through its Status Review Committee system. A subproject
on on-farm testing of extension methodology has already been prepared by PARC.
It is expected that this would be executed by provincial extension and research
agencies in collaboration with PARC. The concept of research into extension
as a multifactorial management system was developed in Sind and has already
been applied to one district in Punjab. Under the subproject it would be
tried in other districts in locations suitable for the study of wheat (two
districts) rice and oilseeds. Necessary incremental staff, vehicles, field
equipment and operating costs would be financed under the subproject.



- 17 -
Manpower Development
57.       A training program would be included in the project to help overcome
the constraint of staff shortages. Training to the Ph.D. and M.Sc. levels
would be provided at both overseas and local universities. The courses would
be selected in response to the needs of the research programs supported by the
project and the need to fill manpower gaps in other programs, including those
under the control of the provinces. Short-term career development courses for
more senior established scientists would also be offered. These would include
courses in research administration as well as technical matters.
Technical Assistance
58.       About 20 man-years of technical assistance would be provided under
the project (16 man-years of foreign consultants and 4 man-years of local con-
sultants).  Most would be short term in-nature and would be employed to assist
PARC in the development of research programs. Long-term assistance (8 man-
years) would be required for the agricultural economic units, on-farm testing
of extension packages, research administration at PARC, and agricultural
engineering. It is expected that technical assistance for strengthening PARC
administrative services would be provided by local consultancy firms. A mid-
term review of the progress of the project would be arranged, concentrating
on the aims of agricultural research and assessing progress towards attaining
technical objectives. The relationship of PARC to the provinces and the
implementation of the research subprojects scheme would also be reviewed.
The mid-term review would also be the basis for the design of any subsequent
agricultural research project. The terms of reference and composition of the
review team would be furnished to IDA for review and approval before July 31,
1983 (Section 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).
Organization and Implementation
59.       PARC would be responsible for carrying out the project.  PARC has
recently been provided with increased autonomy by the Government. In particular,
its Ordinance now enables PARC to function adequately as an autonomous agency
both administratively and financially and to attract good staff with better
salaries and career structure. In addition, PARC has been given full respons-
ibility for federal action in the generation of improved technology in agricul-
ture. PARC now appraises any proposals for new research initiatives which
require federal funding and has been appointed technical adviser to the
University Grants Commission to provide guidance on the award of grants for
agricultural research.
60.       PARC provides a national testing service for new agricultural tech-
nology; primarily for evaluating new crop varieties. This service is part of
the procedure for the release of varieties in Pakistan and provides data and
recommendation of varietal performance to the National Seed Council which
then decides which varieties will be released. The results from the trials
have not always been accepted by provincial authorities for releases within
the province and there was a danger that varieties with unsuitable traits
may therefore be used. GOP has now decided that the recommendations for the
release of crop varieties emanating from the national yield trials system would
be accepted by the provinces as the basis for provincial release.



- 18 -
61.       The Chairman of PARC is its Chief Executive and would have overall
responsibility for project implementation. A project implementation unit would
be established (see paragraph 52 above) consisting of the DMember Directors of
the Executive Board of PARC, one of whom would be elected chairman. The unit
would assist the Chairman of PARC in the day-to-day operation of the project
and would monitor and evaluate progress continuously in terms of key indicators
and targets. Monthly reports would be collected from the agencies involved
in implementing project components and would be consolidated into quarterly
reports to IDA. The supervision of the execution of civil works both at PARC
and NARC would be the responsibility of an Executive Engineer, head of the
Civil Engineering Unit of PARC, who would report directly to the PARC Chairman.
62.       Under the project, the workload of Members of the Executive Board
(MEB) would be substantially increased. At present, the MEB includes Members
for Plant, Animal, Socio-Economic Sciences and Finance. PARC already plans
to split the responsibilities under the control of the Member, Plant Sciences
into Plant Sciences and Natural Resources, and to appoint an additional MEB
to be responsible for the additional topic. This additional MEB would be
appointed before December 31, 1981 (Section 2.07(a) of the draft Project
Agreement). Each MEB plans, coordinates, supervises and guides activities
in the relevant sections of PARC.
Cost and Financing
63.       Total project costs over a five-year period are estimated at US$40
million equivalent. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$17.8
million, about 44% of the project cost. The cost includes duties and taxes
estimated at US$3.3 million. Physical contingencies of 15% are included in
all civil works, 10% on equipment and 5% on operating costs. The project
would require about 20 man-years of consultancy services at an estimated total
cost of US$2.7 million. The average man-month costs for local consultants is
estimated at US$1,000 and for overseas consultants at US$9,500, including
salary, reimbursables and international travel.
64.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$24 million would be extended to GOP
on standard terms and conditions and would finance all foreign exchange costs
and 28% of local costs or about 65% of total cost net of duties and taxes.
GOP would finance the remaining cost of US$16 million. IDA funds would be
channeled to PARC in accordance with GOP standard arrangements for IDA-financed
projects. PARC would provide each year its budgetary proposals for IDA com-
ments before presenting them to the Ministry of Finance (Section 2.01(b) of
the draft Project Agreement). Approval by the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC) of the PC-1 document for the project is a
condition of Credit effectiveness 1/ (Section 6.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). GOP's commitment to improved agricultural research and
PARC's central coordinating role imply provision of a substantially higher
level of funds annually to operate PARC and its related research programs.
This requirement is reflected in the financial allocations included in the
1/   A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma No. 1) is an outline of the project
and project cost necessary for GOP approval procedures.



- 19 -
Government's new draft development program for FY82-84 which has been prepared
in consultation with Bank staff. In order to ensure an early start to the
project, retroactive financing of about US$0.2 million is proposed for expendi-
ture incurred after October 1980 for preparation of plans, specifications and
drawings for major civil works items.
Procurement and Disbursement
65.       The main items to be procured with the proposed IDA credit are:
vehicles, civil works, farm machinery, laboratory equipment, office equipment
and furniture, training, technical assistance and salary costs of incremental
staff added under the project. All major civil works, estimated to cost a
total of US$6.4 million equivalent, for PARC and NARC in Islamabad would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. Other civil works, which would be relatively small
and/or geographically scattered would not be suitable for ICB; contracts would
be let under local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA. Farm
equipment and vehicle requirements would be bulked whenever possible and con-
tracts above US$50,000 equivalent would be procured by international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Contracts which cannot be
grouped into purchases of US$50,000 equivalent, and specialized laboratory and
research materials and equipment, would be procured by limited international
tendering. All procurement would be arranged through PARC's procurement unit,
which would be suitably strengthened by providing additional staff. Disburse-
ment under the Credit would extend over five years and would be against: (a)
80% of contractual payments for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures
for directly imported equipment, furniture and vehicles or, in the case of
locally manufactured items, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory); (c) 50%
of expenditures for imported equipment locally procured; (d) 100% of foreign
and local expenditures for training and technical assistance; (e) 70% of
total costs of research subprojects; and (f) 27% (average) of expenditures on
incremental staff on a declining basis (50% of expenditures in FY82 and 25% in
FY83 and thereafter). Disbursements would be made against full documentation,
except for (f) above, for which disbursements would be against certified
statements of actual expenditures. Disbursements for research subprojects
would be at six monthly intervals as reimbursements against the advances made
by PARC to the cooperating agency.
Accounts and Audit
66.       PARC and the cooperating agencies would maintain separate records
and accounts for the project. Under the revised Ordinance PARC's accounts
would be audited by private firms. Auditors employed by PARC would make field
inspections of subprojects and Economic Research Unit accounts. Institutions
participating in the Contractual Research Grant Scheme would be required to
give undertakings that these auditing arrangements would be accepted. A
certified copy of PARC's accounts and financial statements and the detailed
auditor's reports would be submitted to IDA within six months following the
end of a financial year.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
67.       The yields of major crops and animal products in Pakistan have
remained relatively unchanged over the past decade. Consequently, overall
production of staples has barely kept pace with population growth. Project
facilitated research would concentrate on critical areas which have been rela-
tively neglected in the past. Research would focus on problem-oriented pro-
grams and their definition would involve both farmers and extension workers.
It is impossible to quantify benefits from agricultural research in precise
terms because the uncertain nature of research defies averaging between
success and failure. Even when research programs produce useful technology,
their application depends on the efficiency of extension and other supple-
mentary services.
68.       The project is designed to improve the institutional arrangements
for the national planning, monitoring, funding and implementing of research
programs in Pakistan. As the first stage of a longer term program of research
improvement, it would concentrate on the establishment of a strong federal
agency able to coordinate the nation's research efforts. Benefits would
accrue from the ability to redirect research from unproductive areas to those
of high priority; the reduction in wastage of valuable and scarce resources
resulting from the rationalization of research efforts and elimination of
duplication; and improved cooperation between scientists.
69.       There is a risk that the results of the research conducted under the
project may not be appropriate to farmers' needs or, if appropriate, may not
be conveyed to or used by farmers. The project is designed to minimize this
risk. The procedure for the design of research programs involves inputs from
both extension personnel and farmers.  The senior staff of PARC are of high
calibre and fully aware of the need to encourage research on farmers' problems.
The subprojects for on-farm testing of extension packages and agro-economics
research have been designed to provide research workers direct contact with
both farmers and extension services. The project would complement programs
to strengthen extension services and adaptive research being conducted under
other projects assisted by IDA.
70.       Further development of a truly national agricultural research system
would require the cooperation of the provinces. To obtain this cooperation,
PARC must clearly demonstrate its leadership and capability in agricultural
research planning, coordination, evaluation and financing. The project aims
to establish PARC in this role and its standing and power vis a vis the
provinces will also be strengthened (see paragraphs 59 and 60 above). In
addition, the provision under the project of research grants, training oppor-
tunities and assistance in agricultural economics research would create
incentives for provincial cooperation and for the creation of a favorable
atmosphere in which greater provincial cooperation would be forthcoming for
the design and implementation of subsequent, more provincially oriented
investments in agricultural research.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the Project Agreement between the Association
and PARC and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Exe-
cutive Directors separately.
72.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. An additional condition of Credit effectiveness is the approval
by ECNEC of the PC-1 document for the project (paragraph 64).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 11, 1981



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVTCES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIM&LTE)
TOTAL           803. 9                              MOST RECENT         LOW INCCtE         MIDDLE INCM4E
AGRICULTURAL    253.0              1960  /p   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b     ASIA & PACIFIC      ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                60.0       130.0    270.0              212.4              1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    61.0       98. 01   172.0             166.0              842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    45.9       60.4      77.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1      24.9      27.4              20.8               39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                   139.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     332.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                     57.0        75.0      96.0             193.2              376.1
PER SQ. IN. AGRICULTURAL LAND    201.0     249.0    305.0              409.6             2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       43.8        46.3      46.5              42.0               40.4
15-64 YRS.                       51.8        50.5     50.6               55.0               56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 4.4         3.2       2.9               3.0                3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2. 3        2. 8      3. 1              2.2                2.4
URBAN                            5.0         4. 0      4.4               3. 9               4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.0       47.0      45.0              37.4               28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    23.0       18.0      15.0              14.6                7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3. 2        3. 7     3. 3               2. 6               1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..      1908.1   2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..       6.0              15.6               39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        89.0       102.0      99.0             101.4              116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 83.0        97.0      99.0              92.4              108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        55.0        60.0      63.0              49.8               60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE     22.0        20. 0     20.0              12.0               18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    27.0       21.0      17.0              17.9                5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   44.0       49.0     52.0               50.8               63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                        135.01         .        ..                ..                52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        21.0      29.0              30.2               42.4
URBAN                             ..          ..      60.0              66.0               62.1
RURAL                             ..          ..      17.0              20.0               29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         3.0       6.0              17.7               52.8
URBAN                             ..        12.0      21.0              71.3               71.1
RLRAL                             ..          ..       ..                 ..               42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        11000. Od   4310.Ofe 3780.0/e           6322.7             4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       ..      8440.O0e 10040.0/e          9459.0             2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         2070.0      1870.0   2020.0             1758.4              819.4
URBAN                          370.0       500.0    570.0
RURAL                        22850.0    12390.0  12360.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAI RE          ..          ..       ..                 ..               28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF EIOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.4         5.3
URBAN                            5.6         5.5
RURAL                            5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NUR4BER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                            3. 1        2. 8       .f
URBAN                            3.1         2.7
RURAL                                        2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..        17.9/f
URBAN                             ''        54.4
RURAL                             ..         4. 9



- 23 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAYISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE rROUPS (WEIGHTED AVIRAGES
PAKCISTAN                           -  MOST RECENT ESTIHATE) 
MOST RECENT          Law INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                30.0         44.0      51.0                80.9                98.6
MALE                 46.0        62.0       69.0               94.3                 99.2
FEMALE               13.0        24.0       32.0               66.7                 97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0        14.0      17.0                26.6                55.5
MALE                 18.0         22.0      25.0               34.8                 60.7
FEMALE                3.0         6.0        8.0               18. 2                49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OP SECONDARY)   1.0          1.5       1.5                 9.9                13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0         41.0      42.0               41.1                 34.6
SECONDARY                         24.0         20.0      19.0               20.5                 28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        15.0/R      20.0      21.0                40.9                85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0         3.0       2.8                 1.8                 9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         6.0         18.0      16.0               25.8                118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          1.6       4.8                2.4                 39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   7.0          ..       5.0                13.4                  .
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8          3. Oh      ..                  ..                 4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.6      17364.1   21270.0
FEiALE (PERCENT)                   8. 7         9.3      10. 0              29.4                 36. 8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             60.8         58.9      58.0                70.5                51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                17.9         18.7      19.0                11.6                21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.5        28.7      27.9                37.9                39.1
MALE                                 55.2        50.4      48.6                51.3                48.5
FEKALE                                5. 7        5.5       5.7                23.7                29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5         1.7       1.8                 1.2                 1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/i       17.8      17.3
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3/i       41.8      41.5
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.4/i        8.0       8.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/i       20.2      20.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         68.0     176.0               107.8
RURAL                                ..        47.0     122.0                86.5               192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         34.0      88.0
RURAL                               *          22.0      58.0                  *                182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..         42.0      32.0                46.2
RURAL                               *          43.0      29.0               51.7                 33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and ia not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962-65;  /d Includes Bangladesh;  L Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /f 1973;
J& 1960-62; /h 1972; Xi 1963-64.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 24 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICAYO0S
Notes:  Aitiough the date ate drau  f rot soucesgenraly judged themtauhraiv enrlab, it should aco be noted that they say not be Surer-
nationlly  coparabe becase ofthe leok of  taudordieed deftoiinead c....epte used by differec    onrist   oletn   the date.  The date ere  none-..
chelsee,  ceful cdeoibe ordreofeaoiud, indicate trende, end charucteriee cetain neor difrences  ere  uorIe..
The refrence  roups er (if  ha see   cutry group of the sub ject coutry end (2) a couctry group oiih eceesthu  higher               I-ree  ocm   then ch. country group
ofnnab)ctcutry-(eacoptfr'     "eIte  Surplus Oil tEpoosra" group where "Middle boom   f orth Afrioa sod Middle Runt' is chosenb. ..o.u. of stronger
eoi-atus    .fIntise) . It the refereuc  group date the averages are population weighted  rnithatio means for each in eo  and sho-  unly chat et
nethalf of the c-utrise in.  grou  bee data for that iudicator.  Since the ce--rge of counries anoo  theSdrco  depends 00 tcbs  vilebility of
dta en  -sntuiform,  aution must he' sercnd in celating aeae  of one indiutor to snthec.  Tbhe.. averges ere only useful In copering the value
ofon  indicetoc at e tine amog the countr~y and refereec. groups.
LODI  AREA. (th-ousand eA.)                                                                  Pcltoerriphositin-Ppuute  duiose by numer on pr-tnucag pby-
Total - Total. nufce arse compoising lend ure  an  inland oaeo.-                              ecians      1 quaifid  rw     m  ashool at uni-ersity level
daiuluul-Utinain of agriculeuca  erlua   eprrly or pe-aoenly                        uulinecfurna Person -ouatio  divided by numbe  of praeslioig
fun crops. pounuree, earkt und bitchec gardene or co lie fallow; 190daa                    ml  an   esagaat   ure,pur lnra,  n   siea   uss
Peeglatiener goenitalI.  - total, urbantsd  -racl   P Popatian  (tetal,
GOP PER CAPITA (US$) -1Wpr capita estiatu  at c-rreot market prices, ol-                        uh,enrra) divddb  ther rpnies neater efbeit ed
culatad by san   --nvraioo method au gorld Sank Atlas (1977-79 basis); 1960,                 avilable in Publi  aud prinane ggara1 mod spatialisad bespital wedfPa-
1970 7.ad  if979data.                                                                         hbhilitarien cevee.        aopital. ace establishmets  per-nantly snag fd
~GYCONM~RV1011 PER  ~ITA - A .. I  of           ... gy (coal            by at Iecat one physician.  Eatabliebmets prowiding poinoipelly nstedial
iffll  SNSMPIIS  PE  CPIt  -  ueal  on.annio  ofcoserialenngy(col       care ar  net included.  uRsl1 hespitale, howevr,Seclude belnb sad msdinml
and lignite. pancolaum, oruo-l gs.  sad hydro-, nuln1c and geotherma  .en-                    oenters non permnetly staffd by s physioic  (bun by a medical sasitsat,
d,-.,ii.     .)ricity) In kilograme of coal eqiaetPer cc.pita; 1960. 19700. asd 1978         nreaiwec0)sith offer.-pten   o-idadie  sad pr-vida
done,                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited range of medical facilities.Per statistiesi pnsrpnem  trbts bei-
FPOPULATION AND FITAL STATISTICS                                                                tale Seclude WHOe prioipai general and apecielised hospitals. ma   -snl
hospitals locaIl ot rural hopitals and medical sad mstsrity  -ssr.
Ttloclno.Mid-veer (ailllon.).  As of July 1; 1960, if970, and 1978                Adnision                     h, nctlnd-ltlnme  e   dlsoat   rdehra
dana.                                                                                       from huepitale divideWd by the number uP bade.
bra  Polain  cmnt of total) -Retio of urban to tonal  .poplation;
diffrsnt definitions uf urban area  may effect ounparability of dana                   grSNioG
amo-  cutre;19ff, 1900, end 1978 dune.                                                   Aarau. Sine of HSo..ehold iprn..ons..ec house holdS - tetal. urban, and rael-
.Puolaio Lr.;    cin                                                                        Ahueodcnisne of a group of fadividoale sh. shes living quarters
Penulatino inveer liii - Crrent populaton projeotion   are based o  1960  ad their maio anla.  A hoarder er lodger say or may lont be included In
total population by age and .eo ..ed their mortality cod fertility rae.                  the hoeahod frseIsiipuose
Projeotion peraatnra for mortality rates coprise of three  bone   .:m--                Avcann            f'persuns pr room    nte.. urban, and rural - Avaraga-es
isg life sopsetany at birth  ieesn    ith c...try'. per cap..ita ....u                   her ofpconpr too  lo' all uhan  end   -1re  occupied                aeoa
leve;l, an  fI-', life n-pactanoy  tnaillinig at 77.1 yeuce.  The pare-                  dwellings, respect.ively.   ve1lingE  enclods nn-peemanet  tuoturas end
meters fur fsrtilily race also hav  thrs  leel.1        nuin  declinei So.unoccuied per-s
fertilityaouoniding  to income IevaIand peatifamily planning perfernanc.               Ao.... tc El-tcrioity icerosnt of dwsllioas) - tonal, urban. and rural -
Each contry isthou assigned one ofpth-s  nin  combinations of mortality                  Cofo-t Itnal delliege with e1-tocniity In living quartets as pernetags
an:d fertility trauda f-r projectie   urne.of total,urban, and rursi dwellings  e-pe-tively.
0 aIonry noou1atioe- T.scsianypopulanioc thero  s no growth since
the birth rate is equal no the death nets, ond also theg  structure  e-    EIEUCATI Of
_sius cons.tant.  This ia achievd oely aftec fertility ratna. decline to               Adlueted Euolot  feo
the ropIeusasn  lc-n  of unit net -ep-daunion rate, when each gene.ration,               Primarysho -1-ntotl   oeadiml-rs    oa,el   n    el
of womenraplaus  inself  auncly.The sainrpoutonsewseoolnt of all ages at the prinary 1en1 aspanostegee otespotf
aetinated on the basis of the projeotad uaatcaieof the ipopultion                           piaysho-t   opltos   omlyicldscide   gd61
inthe year 2000, aud the rate of decline of f-ctility cece no repleon-                     yearn but adjusted f or differe   lengtho of pcimaoy educa.tion; fec
man  level.                                                                               countries nick universal education eureI..nt mey  -cd 150 Parne..e
Y-c  stationary Popalatien Is .ea.hed - The year  aoftneac aypopuleiotn                        i. aIcao .pupils arebelow or above the offIiail school age.
si hebeen rnched.                                                                   Secondary school - total, eels and femal  - Computed am chew; e..o.dary
Pento  .anait                                                                             educatinrqre  at least four pears of approved primary inetructine;
Perent h.l     Mdyapoutiner square kilomter (155 hectares) of                                prvdsgcri  oaional, or --ah-r crc-ing inarrutio.s for popik
toal area..nuall  of 12 to 17 years ofa go; ourreponde...e.courses ore generally
Pre.b.gario-Itur.1 lend  -Coputed as above for-        no      e  landeoudd
ly.                                                                      -1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~octoa  enroll!metinaott of soeodR V..-.Oootionc1 imtitution
PPonlenion Aoe Stnuotare ieacoont  - Children  (0-14yer)wokn-g   (17-                           Iouetechucel, Soucil   r  te   egam    hc   pessidpn
64 years), and1retired (65 years ond ovr) os peroencges of mid-y... POPO-                     dontly on en departments of secondary ins.titutions
ution; 1960, 1970, and 1978 data.t.                                                        Pop1-te...hen ratio -.onJ-,r. and secondary - Total students enrlled In
.Pocltn  Growh Rats ineroent) - ttl~Aunul grhbrutes  of total odd-                              primary and seonay..       vl  diiddbycobrs oft ...checs in the
yer  opt   aicsfor 15-S  16-70, adio-7n                                                      oursodig levls
ouute   r=wt  hots inercent  - urbee - Aonll   growt-h reuse of urba y. pu-.            Adolf liptersy rate (-...nt) - Literate adults (able to read and mots)
lacio.. for 1950-60, 196-.70, and 1970-78...aaepcrcennsgo  of total adultpopulation aged 15 years and eve r.
Crude linth gene irar thousad) - dun1 live births pen thousand of aid-year
popolstiou; 1960, 1970,. ad 1978 dona.                                                 CONfSUMPfTION
Icude Death Oats (pec thousand) - A-Iua  deaths Per thousand of mid-year                    Pusener inns  me  thousand cogultion   - Passen ger cars copieetnr
population; 1965, 19y0, end 19 78 data.                                                     ce nting lens then eigh't persons;  uclodee ambuleece, hoarses end
irons Roroduction Oats-Average  -b-r of daughtocaooao   ill bean In                             iiay   eile
tility rtnso; usualy five-ye. an evragee sadog it 1960, 1975, and 1977.                    broadoa..ts nognea   _ulo  e  thouan  of population; anludsa uli-
pualc Plnnin   - .ceptors. Alnatul (tho.....ds) - Aanu.al cober of acetr                 osd neoiec  i  conns  end Ioyer  oh- regist-cell of rdio see
ofbnbcnnlUdario.... udrn ...pi.ea of natione  'fsully planeig progran.             wa.O  efart  Oars f.tonrcn   on   a   o  b               prbesnsms
Panhlo  lannmun- User  bermoan of satried wmu  - Pciucego of married                    ..o.ofclne aoihed lIcenin.s
eeeochl-hearing ago il5-44 yearn) nho  s  birth-control devices to                S  esvc   ctioun   oueie)-T0rciesfrbedetc
oil mrid c,tn In  -m  ogo group.                                                            ge..n-1 public yen chouod  onunu;acae   unlicensed TV  eevr
P22Ol ANDt NUTRITIUON                                                                         iN-uueinedi   er   hnngerto    f1Fst  aei   ta
l1den of rood Production nor Capita (1969-71-105  -lOdn  of per ..pit. auaual                 tiocp. of"al   ecrlitreisapp asIa                            a panidical peb-
production of all food  -oemdities.  Production ecoludee aed and feed and                   li-otioo  devuted primril  noI      orig   eea   -s    In is eoaida-d
is lon ralndor year haste.  Conndiri-soner primary goldo (e.g.  tuocae                      c  be "decoy" If it -Ppeec        1 at .lese  Ioun cOe  a week.
inteafd of sugar)  hich are edible aed coutoin  utcrinuc. (.g.ofe   n                    Cfnn  Alnnua Intendance ret Cenits pca  Tea- -gesd en the noboc of
tenr    nldd.Aggregate peduotion of each counry isbndotiocets sold during the year. including  dMaieton. to drive-in  cinses
natioa  avrage producer peSos  oighte; 196 1-65 , 1970, end 1979 data..-kbl-t.
Per caIneeclyo alre  frret of onureesut) - Computed froen  mbl,uin
eterg   equ111iPvalent  f netfoo  eup'eaelein country Pat caPita                     I      FRC
por day. A-silable suppliescops  domsic prodoctiou, imports lees                       Tonol abon Force dihousede) - tE-uoIcelly active persons, including
ouPra c, and chonges It stock.  Naet supplie       _ldo atmial food, sands,              amdforce  ad          eployed but co.. 1ding housowive- sudns   to.
q_tIOiss use  u  food  iroeen, sd loesc. gio ldiethu-iun.  Requir-                       Deficuioi..  In  -uricun.. outciee arc cot comparble; 1960, 1970 and
eo u  vn  oumto-d by PAt bousd on physiological ndc for noma  ucti-                   1979 dti..
city and hoalth coneidoriug euviroenenta1 temperatore *hdy voights. age               PFnl  (cotet) - Fon1l  labor forts us peroentag.otf total abon foro..
an da distibutio  of  opo1utiun, ud ulbooieg 1i pe-rcn  for  unte no               Arcutr  (p-c...et) - lboc force In f.coing, foetry  huningan
househol1d leve; 19h1-65, 1 970, nod 1977 data.                                          finhin& snperoo..tage of tonal labor force  1960, 1970 end 197da.
Fcru.rite.u yo  prtin (oramu p en day) - Protein coutnot of penc .Pica                    Induutry (percent) - Labor fume. In eioig. coust.octiun, es            Btdactunn
uc supply of. foope  day.  Netspply of food in dofiedasehoon..  Se                        ed electricity, water a ad gauss. por.oet,!go of totul labor force; 1960.
quirenni  for all cu..netlee ontabliehod by USDA providc for mnma                        1970 end 1970 deta.
allcwunc  of 60 gSeo of tucal pe trin Fer day and 20 inane ofo=nl und                  Pertiutaincre(eonl- oa,ml,  n   eae- Participation  or
usepoti., of which 10 gSan  shudbSenlpott.Toetu-                                     ativc    ae   r         ptd  sitl,ml,sdfml  anPrea
ends are lowe  thou those of y5 gnom  nof total yrotoin and 23 grans of                  porcntge  ofttl  saln end fenel  population of allu-g- rosPativly1;
aimal pco tein asa   -veeg  for the  -cold, propo..ed by FA11 ho the Third              1960, 1970, and 1975 dote.  Th.ao are ILO's participation venue reflecting
Worl,,d food Surey  1961-65. 1970 and 1977 data.... .g-otn...turn  oS the pulto. ad beg time trend.  A fe  wesi-
Pr usin I  coteim  upy  rmanmlen   u    - Protein supply of food de-                      mtsaefrnnto_    uore
tired from  animale ad putlne  in grems per day; 1961-, 1970 and197d at.                 tu  Diolpendec..y Ratio - Ratio of popu1ottn under 11 and 65 aed over
Child fe..s 1-4  Motality cuts iron          .. rusd) - -un..I deetha per thu..... In         to the total labo  forco.
age group 1-4 yer. to ohlldron in thin aggou;Iot most do-loping  cou--
tries Ages derived fin  life  rabies; 1960,l1970 aud 1977 data.                        INaCOME DISTRIBUTION
OEAI.Th                                                               Percemtaac~~~~~~F   of  riat  bon  (both in cash and bind) - Rle..iv-d byriohest
HE     etnyatnnh(ae)-AAaeLuTnoHerno   iermann                                                   ecet   ihs  2   ecn,pooreet 20 peocnt, end poorest hi par o.et
LiSf e p,   .y         th'-             7_    -.    fy..o    i.r i                            of bh...ehelds.
atbrh   1960:j, 197  and 1900 data.
l,atso   Moc.talitry Rts moe  houand  - dAuual deaths of iotfue under one year    ?OET  TARGET GiOolUP
of ageIe huadlce bintus.                                                                 Estimated AbouePcryIcm   ee   U)oropn                           ubem  ald  -rura-
Acesto Safe Water ipeco_r of noonlation) -itotal  urban, end  -ruc   - S                        boueptec   ooelve   ste   nom   ee   eo  which a sditea
N-ubahe  of people (total, urban, so   Iua) wIch sonble access. to  a e.f                   nnn clydequute disc plu  aentia1 eon-food requirseer  is not
__s  suppy finulades treated aurfeos oners or untraced bat onotnntd                         s odble.
water suc  ae thac from protected borsholee, springs, sod ...ottarywella) as              fcmcd   eaiePvet to=lee   f)on  nia      utan1a 
prstesof chair rup-ctive popolatione. I  en urhe  ea    pubi                         Runa1 relanivepvryicm-ee  is one-thir  oft averageperca it
fonaino  e dposn loaned ant mere the  100 meters iro  a hous.sa  bn                       esoa  incom   of the coutrY.  Urban leve  is daniv-d  fom  the rura
cosdrd  ablg wtin resnble eneeof thor h.uso.  I  tuna  rt5                          ee    ihajsmetfrbw                   otr  lnn    cobnaes
rmasosbleeue .-oud laply rho; the housewfe or mobors of the house hold                    E.tatmaedPo    Bltia I0   Abeolote poverty Incm   Leve  (percent  - arbe
do net bare to spend    disproportioutn part of the dy inftuhiug th.ndrna   Percent of population  (urban and rural) who c.                                      esln  peer".
family's outer neade.
=          '.T-Shmero  people (total,`urban-md rurl)  ervd byaoit
dis:poa  as I.  peroestage  of their reoPecciceppuains           areta die-                                                lonoicad Socim  Data Dtrision
P.su  ma y inlude rho . uc-is o   and disposal, wit  on wihout ncatmenE, oeceO   dA-lyie and Projentina Departmat
of boma  aorata and wats-wter by water-born  syata    en the use of                                                                        October 1990
pit privies and siilso iuaesllatione.



- 25 -
ANNE I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979/80                                                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z. constant prices)
USS billion       2                                          1969/70-1974/75     1975/76-1979/80      1979/8O
GNP at Market Prices                       25.05          100.0                                            3.5                  6.1               7.8
Gross Domestic laveastent                   4.16           16.6                                           -5.5                  4.8               2.2
Gross National S-ving                       3.04           12.1                                           -2.1                  8.9               8.3
Current Account Balance                    -1.16           -4.6
Resource Gap                               -2.77         -11.1                                             6.7                  3.5            -17.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979/IN  /a
Value Added               Labor Force              V.A. Per Worker
U0$ million      %           Million      Z          US$ million       2
Agriculture                       6.694          31           12.8        54              523          58
Industry                          5,280          25            4.3        18           1,228          137
Service.s                         9,299          44           6.6         28            1.409         157
Total/Average                  21,273         100           23.7       100              898         100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                           Central Government
(Re billion)              2 of GDP                          (Rs billion)               % of GDP
1979/80        1979/80     1975/76-1979/80                   1979/80        1979/80      1975/76-1979/80
Current Receipts                            39.4            17.0             15.9                        30.1            13.0             12.1
Currenct Empenditures                       39.5            17.0             16.7                        29.8            12.8             12.2
Current Surplus/Deficit                     -0.1            0.0              -0.8                         0.3             0.2             -0.1
Capital Expenditures                        24.8            10.7             10.4                        21.6             9.3              8.8
External Assistance (net)                   12.6             5.4              5.2                        12.6             5.4               5.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75     1975/76     1976/77      1977/78     1978/79      1979/80/-
Money and Quasi Money                                   33.1        41.6        51.7         63.6        76.4         91.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                     17.7         22.9        29.5         34.4        43.2        48.8
Rank Credit to Private Sector (gross)                  19.7         23.1        30.1         35.7        42.7        50.6
Money and Quasi Money as 2 of GDP                       31.6        34.3        38.1         40.6        43.0         43.3
Whole.ale Price Index (1969/70 - 100)                 211.3        229.4       255.3        271.4       289.7        316.7
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                                  23.6          8.6        11.3          6.3         6.7          9.3
Rack Credit ti Public Sector (set)                     21.2         29.4        28.8         16.6        25.6        13.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)                  26.3         17.3        30.3         18.6        19.6        18.5
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.  Serious undere-umeration ray exist, especially of women.
/b Provisional.
Not applicable.
April 1981



- 26 -
AYNIX I
3ALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 (US9 million)                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77-1979/80)
1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80/1                                                   US5  million     2__
Exports of Goods, NFS                                1.404        1,651         2,107        2.964                    Raw Cotton                           135.4          8.5
lmports of Goods, NFS                                2,877        3,297        4.485        5,727                     Cotton Yarn                          157.0          9.8
Reso.rc.   Gop (deficit - -)                        -1,473       -1,646       -2.378       -2.763                     Cotton Cloth                         199.1         12.4
Rice                                 313.3         19.6
Interest ?ayneets                                     -172         -183         -261          -285                    A.11 Other Commdities                795.6         49.7
Workers' Remittances                                   578        1,166         1,395        1,74.3                     Total                            1,600.4        100.0
Other Factor Payme.ts (set)                              15           62          134          154
Net Transfers
Balance on Corrent Account                          -1,052         -601       -l1,l0        -1,151                                 EXTEFUIAL DEBT, JUNE 30, 1980
Direct Foreign I-vestment                                                                                                                                           US$ sillion
Net MLT Borrowing
Disb-rsmemst                                         961          841          813        1.420                    Public Debt, Including Guaranteed                11,209.9
A-rti..tito                                         -175         -122         -235          -310                    Non-guaranteed Privata Debt/f
Sob Total                                            786          719          578        1.110                       Total Outstanding nd Disburead                11,209.9
Transactions with IMF/b                                 44            41         -14            78
Other Iemas n.e.i./c                                     24          163          238          325                               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979180/JL
Increase in Reserves (-)                               198         -322           308         -362
Gross Reserves (year e.d)/d                            372           694          386          748
Net Reserves (year eod)/e                             -146           150         -92           340                    Public Debt. Including Guaranteed                 12.7
Official Gold (year end; million)                      1.6           1.7          1.8          1.8                    Non-guarantaed Private Debt
Total                                           12.7
Foal and Related Materials
Petroleum Imports                                      413          497          611         1.237                        IBRD/IDA LENDING (JUNE 1979) (million USj)
Petrole- m E.port.                                       27           63           56          178
RATE OF EXCHANGAE                                                                                                     Outstanding and Disbursed                   330.9        788.7
Undisbursad                                  60.7        444.1
Through rMv 11, 1972       May 11, 1972 - February 15, 1973        Since February 15, 1973                            Outstanding, Including Undisbursed          391.6      1.232,8
US$ - Rs 4.7619                      US$ * 11.00                    US$ - 9.90
R.  - US$0.2100                      Rs  - 0.0909                   Rs  - 0.1010
/a Government estimete.
/b Including Trust Fund.
/c Including net short-term borrowing and errors and omissions.
d Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
/e txcluding use of IMP credit.
If Privace debt is negligible.
/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods. no0-factor services and wrkers' remittances; not including short-teram or IMF charges.
Not available.
April 1981



- 27 -                     ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                    Amount (less cancellation)
Credit                                                                           Undis-
Number   Year  Borrower         Purpose                      Bank   TW    IDA  bursed
Seventy-eight loans and credits fully disbursed /a          611.2         581.3
422      1973  Pakistan  Karachi Port III                    --            18.0   0.2
492      1974  Pakistan  Karachi Port IV                                   16.0   1.3
1107     1975  SNGPL      Gas Pipeline IV                    53.0           --    1.7
546      1975  Pakistan  Industrial Development (NDFC)   --                30.0   1.5
1208T    1976  Pakistan  Power Transmission                  --   35.0      -      5.5
620      1976  Pakistan  Seed                                --            23.0   8.9
1326     1976  PICIC       Industrial Development            25.0           --    1.2
630      1976  Pakistan  Lahore Water II                     --            26.6   9.7
648      1976  Pakistan  Irrigation and Drainage             --            14.0   8.0
1366T    1977  Pakistan  Livestock                           --   10.0      --    9.8
1372/684 1977  Pakistan  Railways                            35.0          25.0  25.0
678      1977  Pakistan  Education                           --            15.0  10.7
751      1977  Pakistan  Hill Farming                        --             3.0   2.0
754      1978  Pakistan  SCARP-VI                            --            70.0  69.2
755      1978  Pakistan  Hazara Forestry                     --             1.7   1.6
771      1978  Pakistan  Tarbela II                                        35.0   2.2
813      1978  Pakistan  Punjab Extension                    --            12.5  10.4
846      1978  Pakistan  Fauji Fertilizer                    --            55.0  20.6
867      1979  Pakistan  Toot Oil & Gas Development          --            30.0  18.1
877      1979  Pakistan  Salinity Control & Reclamation  --                60.0  59.5
892      1979  Pakistan  Primary Education                                 10.0   9.1
922      1979  Pakistan  Sind Agricultural Extension /b  --                (9.0) (9.0)
957      1979  Pakistan  Fourth Agricultural Dev. Bank   --                30.0  27.3
968      1980  Pakistan  Third WAPDA Power                   --            45.0  41.8
974      1980  Pakistan  Third Highway                       --            50.0  48.4
1019     1980  Pakistan  PICIC Industrial Development    -                 40.0  40.0
1066     1981  Pakistan  Fertilizer Imports
(SDR 38.2 M) /d                 --           (50.0)(50.0)
Total                                                       724.2 45.0 1,191.1
of which has been repaid                                  402.0  --      24.0
Total now outstanding                                       322.2 45.0 1,167.1
Amount sold                                         23.9
of which has been repaid                         22.3       1.6  --      --
Total now held by Bank and IDA /c                           320.6 45.0 1,167.1
Total undisbursed                                            26.3 15.3   392.1 433.7
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for proj-
ects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/b   Not included in totals:  Credit number 922-PAK is not yet effective.
/c   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/d   Not included in totals.



- 28 -                    ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (February 28, 1981)
Fiscal                                                Amount   In US$   Million
Year      Obligor             Type of Business        Loan    Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of           Rolled Steel          0.63      -         0.63
Pakistan Ltd.          Products
1959     Adamjee Industries    Textiles                0.75      -         0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement        Cement                5.25     0.42       5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                   Development            -       0.52       0.52
1969-                            Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute           Textiles              1.84     0.11       1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.           Paper Products        4.43     0.84       5.27
1980
1967     Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp. Ltd.              Paper                 5.38     2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules         Fertilizers           1.00     2.92       3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper        Pulp and Paper        5.60     0.63       6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Limited        Food & Food            2.40     0.40       2.80
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals &
Limited and Attock   Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.                               29.00      1.62     30.62
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78        -        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Limited         Particle Board         2.70        -        2.70
Total Gross Commitments                     60.76      9.48      70.24
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                33.25      1.01      34.26
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           27.51      8.47      35.98
Undisbursed (including participants)        17.72      0.37      18.09



- 29 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit, together with other additional contributions arranged
in 1978, is intended to help finance the repairs and additional works required
to complete the project. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage--the construction of
the closure section of the dam--to be undertaken. By end-June 1974, the
main embankment had been completed to full height, and the first impoundment
began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties were encoun-
tered in the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of the tunnels
necessitated the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the tunnels and
outlet structure. Agreement was reached with the parties of the Indus Basin
and Tarbela Development Funds whereby special contributions were made by a
number of parties, including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the cost of
repairs and additional remedial works. The stilling basins suffered further
damage in August 1975 and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has now been
repaired and has operated satisfactorily. Work to construct a flip-bucket
at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is scheduled to begin in 1981 and will be
completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool below the service
spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection works. Final protec-
tion work in the service spillway plunge pool and in the downstream channel
were completed in June 1980. Final protection work in the auxiliary plunge
pool will be completed in June 1982. Increased attention is being given to
developing the O&M program and resources to insure the long term performance
and safety of the Tarbela Project. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from
the dam have generally been met. Power generation by the first four units
began in 1977.
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and             Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Spare parts for diesel
locomotives have been fully ordered. The telecommunications and signaling
scheme is making good progress. Procurement has been completed and the total
proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                    ANNEX II
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date:  December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The Third Karachi Port Project is almost completed and all the
Credit funds are committed and most of Credit has been disbursed. The Fourth
Karachi Port Project is almost complete and at February 28, 1981, IDA had dis-
bursed US$14.7 million. The partial adoption of a new tariff structure has
improved KPT's financial position.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This loan has been fully committed and at February 28, 1981, dis-
bursements amounted to US$23.8 million.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30 Million Credit of May 15, 1975:  Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Credit has been fully committed and US$28.5 million had been
disbursed as of February 28, 1981. The Closing Date, originally September 30,
1979, has been postponed to December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Project activities are on schedule. US$1.7 million remain undis-
bursed and had earlier been retained to install gas dehydration facilities at
Meyal oil field. These facilities are now being provided by the owner of the
field in conjunction with an LPG plant. The Borrower has therefore now been
authorized to apply these undisbursed funds to increase the capacity of the
Islamabad/Rawalpindi distribution system where extensive load shedding was
experienced during the last winter months due to demand increases.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Project implementation remains behind schedule, with the most impor-
tant delays being with the construction and equipping of the three seed pro-
cessing plants due to disputes between contractors, consultants, and equipment
suppliers and the Punjab Seed Corporation. There have been signs of improve-
ment in the quality of pre-basic seed supplied by the research institutes,
though there is still a problem with wheat seed in Sind. It is likely that
project completion and credit closing dates will need to be further extended.



(Revised 4/21/81)
- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All the works have been contracted after some design delay and
retenderings. Construction is about 2-1/2 years behind schedule. The engi-
neering consulting service financed by UNDP has been strengthened and extended
to cover the prolonged project period. Technical assistance provided by ODA
(UK) for engineering and financial management, leak detection and training
has been reorganized to better meet the needs of the project. Financial
results are poor despite an interim tariff increase effective October 1980.
There continues to be a need for a definitive long-range tariff policy.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of the 336-mile transmission line between Faisalabad
(formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and installation of associated equipment has
been completed. The closing date, originally December 31, 1980, has been
extended to June 30, 1981, to accommodate payment of retention money.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur-II Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is currently about two years behind schedule. Work
on canal remodeling, surveys, and extension services are proceeding satisfac-
torily. Initial break-in period of tile and collector drain construction has
been completed enabling better estimations of costs and implementation schedule.
Experience obtained during this period indicates that project costs could be
significantly higher than appraisal estimates and completion may be delayed by
3-4 years. IDA has begun a dialogue with GOP officials regarding possible
revisions to project scope and implementation schedule with a view to contain
cost overruns and limit completion delays.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is making good progress. All project studies are near
completion. Nearly 100% of civil works contracts have been awarded and about
75% have been completed. Tendering for about 75% of the project equipment is
in progress and the balance is expected to be tendered shortly. Technical
assistance specialist services are now being provided satisfactorily and about
90% of the fellowships have been used or committed.



- 32 -                     ANNEX II
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Government and the Bank have discussed the possible restructur-
ing of the project and GOP has established a committee of senior officials to
further review this matter. The invitation to tender for the rehabilitation
of the Lahore Milk Plant (LMP) is ready to be issued; however, the Government
has been requested to complete its review before tenders are called for the
LMP.
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
This project is generally proceeding satisfactorily. All key
staff are in post and pilot programs for food crop trials, vegetables, apples,
forestry and livestock are operating close to schedule. Preparation of the
proposed follow-up project has begun.
Credit No. 754       SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
The project is about two years behind schedule. No significant
progress yet in implementation, due principally to serious delay in formal GOP
approval of project. To accommodate GOP resource constraints, the project
scope and cost have been reduced, with IDA assistance, which facilitated GOP
approval in February 1981. IDA is currently awaiting the receipt of necessary
documentation of this approval.
Credit No. 755       Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been some progress in different project activities, but
implementation is significantly behind schedule. The silviculturist has not
been recruited in spite of UNDP financial assistance. Forest inventory, with
the technical assistance of FAO, is underway and results are expected to be
available in early Fall. A consulting firm will present a new proposal for
the verification and interpretation of the inventory data in order to identify
the scope of the follow-up industrial feasibility study.



- 33 -                    ANNEX II
Credit No. 813       Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$12.5
Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project approval which was delayed by GOP for about 18 months has
since been granted. Implementation is behind schedule, but lately, there
has been tangible progress in staff recruitment, building site acquisition
and construction. There have been delays in obtaining the required con-
sultants' services.
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering and procurement are practically completed and con-
struction is well advanced. The marketing program is being implemented
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 867       Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is about eight months behind schedule mainly
due to technical difficulties in drilling and slow procurement. However, with
the availability of better equipment, materials and services, there has been
a recent improvement in well drilling. A new drilling management contractor
started work in April 1980. Two CIDA experts arrived in Pakistan in June
1980 to assist in project implementation. A firm to provide project coor-
dination services under CIDA financing started work in August 1980. Training
of OGDC personnel under the drilling management contract began in February
1981. An ODA-financed management study of OGDC is expected to start in April
1981.
Credit No. 877       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan:
US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effective
Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project is about one year behind schedule. No significant
progress yet in implementation, due principally to serious delay in formal
GOP approval of project. To accommodate GOP resource constraints, the
project scope and cost have been reduced, with IDA assistance, which facil-
itated GOP approval in February 1981. IDA is currently awaiting the receipt
of necessary documentation of this approval that will enable a presentation
to IDA management on the restructured project.



(Revised 4/21/81)
- 34 -                        ANNEX II
Credit No. 892      Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Good progress has been made with the evaluation component of this
project after an initially slow start due to the renegotiation of the con-
sultancy contract. Overseas fellowships have been completed. Civil works,
furniture and equipment are about six months behind schedule. Some redesign
of the evaluation program, especially in Baluchistan, may be needed due to
remoteness and absence of adequate field staff.
Credit No. 957       Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million Credit
of December 7, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Credit became effective June 5, 1980. Although the agriculture
engineer training component is yet to start and project consultants are yet to
be hired, overall progress has been satisfactory.
Credit No. 968       Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is at an early stage, with work being done in procurement,
land acquisition and initial construction of substations.
Credit No. 922       Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project:
US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 974       Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Delays in credit effectiveness and contractor's inability to plan
their work effectively have delayed construction and will call for a revision
of contract timing to bring required outputs in line with the contractor's
abilities.
Credit No. 1019      PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This Credit became effective October 29, 1980 and US$1.5 million has
been committed.
Credit No. 1066      Fertilizer Imports Credit:  US$50 Million Credit of
October 17, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
This Credit became effective December 1, 1980.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:
Nine months.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project:
PARC, with the assistance of FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme.
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA and date of
first IDA mission to consider project:
Identification mission: February 1980.
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:
September 1980.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:
March 16, 1981.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1, 1981.
Section II:    Special Bank/IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Condition of Effectiveness
Approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 document for the
project (paragraph 64).



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Other Conditions
(a) PARC would employ, by August 31, 1981, in its Civil Engineer-
ing Unit, three engineers and three overseers to supervise
project civil works (paragraph 52);                          -
(b) GOP would maintain the ongoing research subprojects at
adequate level of funding (paragraph 56);
(c) TOR and composition of the mid-term review team would
be agreed with IDA before July 31, 1982 (paragraph 58);
(d) An additional Member of PARC's Executive Board, responsible
for National Resources, would be appointed before December 31,
1981 (paragraph 62); and
(e) PARC would provide each year its budgetary proposals for IDA
comments before presenting them to the Ministry of Finance
(paragraph 64).



IBRD 15488
640                                680                            /   720       U. S. S R.           5JANUARY 1981
PAKISTAN                                                      l                  L.- C                CH I NA
MAIN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS                                                                 ,'
360                                        AND                                                                  /
AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES                                                         -_
RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS:                                                                 V 
*  NARCANDPARC                                                                                          Approximate Le of Control
*  PLANT. SOILS AND FORESTRY
ANIMAL SCIENCE AND FISHERIES                             v                                I             ......
*MONANo
AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES:
INDUS DELTA
I'SOUTHERN IRRIGATED PLAIN                                                           R..lid
HI SANDY  DESERT(a&b)
IV  NORTHERN IRRIGATED PLAIN  &b)                         *
V BARANI LANDS
VI WET MOUNTAINS
V'l NORTHERN DRY MOUNTAINS
VII. WESTERN DRY MOUNTAINS
-320                       IX DRY WESTERN PLATEAU
X SULAIMAN PIEDMONT                                                                                Sh.hi.               320
> RIVERS
0    MAIN TOWNSBi
- --  PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                               |                IV
_._  INTERNATIONAL              *a
BOUNDARIES                                  vmr,
4----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-
i\  _. _-_-.J                                                                                  I/str
I R A N 70 5Dy/l
S_  I >  2   6   5 1 /N  D       KILOMETERS 0        100       200       300
Mc t_   <   /   X  <    ma 1MILES 0            100             200
720
;~~~~~~~~~~                                        -    ~\ ,..   Lic  ci Co- ra.
*Sot8~~~~~~~~~~~~~1*r*;a~~~~~~~~~~~h                                                                             L- r-  C-y  d
CHINA
IRAN    .7 4          ' 
IT
Arabian                 Se                                                                        24 ,,
AUDI                          INDIA
Tht ' " b  pWomd b Vo. %*W Sb*.e WftP#AQ4* A*r ft0be6WARABIA/ 
of *f r#.*e ofooAmiotw !oOwO Ai 4owEmA.4 7~d.d d A
oe.p~ ~~~~0.(wbfaoo.         y   V  nbf                                                           .           Arobioi'  Soa



