DOC1ME ?    CREDIT NUMBER 1158 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Research Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1158 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              19              , 1981, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKIST N acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Pakistan Agri-
cultural Research Council with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
the Pakistan Agricultural Research Council the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Pakistan Agricultural Research Council;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "PARC" means the Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
established by the Borrower's Notification No. F.2-1/71/E-III
(ARC) dated September 17, 1978;


﻿-2-
(b) "Ordinance" means the Borrower's ordinance enabling PARC
to function adequately as an autonomous agency;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and PARC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement;
(d) "Sub-project" means any research scheme to be carried
out under Part A.3 of the Project;
(e) "NARC" means the National Agricultural Research Center;
and
(f) "Rupees" means rupees in the Borrower's currency.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to nineteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 19,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account.in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1991, and ending April 15,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chairman, PARC or his nominee is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall
provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
To that end, the Borrower shall make adequate and timely budgetary
provisions for the implementation of the Project, and shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association by March 1 of
each year of Project implementation, beginning March 1, 1982, an
estimate of Project funds required for the following fiscal
year.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall take


﻿-4-
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds on a grant basis, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to (i) enable PARC to perform all its
obligations under the Project Agreement and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance, and (ii) support, at adequate levels,
PARC coordinated research projects and the collaborative research
programs and NARC's on-going research programs.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist in carrying out the
Project the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) Without limitation on Sub-section (a) above: (i) with
respect to Part A.1 of the Project described in Schedule 2 hereto,
the Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association for review and approval all final building designs;
and (ii) with respect to Part C (2) of the Project described
in Schedule 2 hereto the Borrower shall by September 30, 1981,
employ, or cause to be employed, consultancy firms whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall implement, or cause to be
implemented, by December 31, 1981, selection procedures satis-
factory to the Association for the candidates for the training
programs referred to in Part C (1) of the Project described in
Schedule 2 hereto.
Section 3.04. With respect to Part B of the Project described
in Schedule 2 hereto, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be
employed, by December 31, 1981, a Director General for NARC with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, and
Directors for NARC's Soil and Water Management Division, Range
Management Division, Animal Sciences Division, Oilseeds Division,
Plant Introduction and Genetic Resources Division and Agricultural
Engineering Division.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, in accordance with a time-
table satisfactory to the Association, staff, or cause to be
staffed, PARC and NARC with adequate numbers of qualified and
experienced personnel.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken
in accordance with a timetable and criteria satisfactory to the


﻿-5-
Association, all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as
and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the.Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02 The Borrower shall: (i) establish, or cause to
be established by the entities referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement, separate accounts for the purposes of the Project;
(ii) cause such accounts for each fiscal year to be audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(iii) furnish, or cause to be furnished to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the said accounts
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning such accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) PARC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of PARC under the Project Agreement.


﻿-6-
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that PARC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) the Ordinance of the Borrower shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way
as to materially and adversely affect the ability of
PARC to carry out the covenants, agreements and obliga-
tions set forth in the Project Agreement.
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of PARC or for the suspension of its
operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof: (a) any event specified in paragraphs
(a), (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and PARC; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council shall have approved the PC-l document with
respect to the Project.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, PARC, and is legally binding upon PARC
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date? VtkAdJ) 1, 1981 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date o-
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to the Governrint of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condittons.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                       Telex:
ECONOMIC                           ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused


﻿-8-
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By ( t
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   5,970,000        80%
(2) Equipment, furniture,         1,060,000
vehicles and livestock
(a) directly                                  100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(b) locally                                   100% of local
manufactured                             expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) imported, pro-                            50%
cured locally
(3) Training and                  7,030,000        100%.
technical
assistance
(4) Contractual research          2,620,000        70%
grants under Part
A.3 of the Project
(5) Incremental Staff
Salaries                     1,960,000
(a) FY 1982                                   50%
(b) FY 1983 and                               25%
thereafter
(6) Unallocated                  1,060,000
TOTAL       19,700,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to June 2, 1981 except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000 may be
made in respect of Category (1) on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿- 11 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower,. cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   1. Strengthening the Pakistan Agricultural Research
Council (PARC) by providing, inter alia, a head-
quarters secretariat building and additional
facilities and staff for selected PARC support
units.
2.   Establishing a research information unit, a
civil engineering unit and a laboratory equipment
maintenance and repair unit to support and assist
PARC.
3.   Strengthening and supporting agricultural research
at institutions and organizations in Pakistan
other than PARC through a contractual research
grant program.
Part B:   Strengthening the research activities of NARC and other
research institutions in Pakistan by:
 1.  Providing, inter alia, facilities for the main
research station; and
2.   Assisting in research development in plant
sciences, animal sciences, cereal diseases, oil-
seeds, agricultural engineering and agricultural
economics, including the provision, inter alia, of
additional staff, equipment and civil works.
Part C:   Strengthening the Borrower's research capabilities
through:
1.   A training program to provide assistance in
Pakistan and abroad at the Ph.D and M.Sc levels.
2.   Technical assistance, inter alia, in agricultural
economics units, on-farm testing of extension


﻿- 13 -
practices, research administration and agricultural
engineering.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifl-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    /9&     day of
198L.
SECRETARY


