Report No. PID5430
Project Name                     Armenia-Second Structural Adjustment (@&)
Technical Assistance Credit (SATAC II)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       AMPE51026
Borrower                         Republic of Armenia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance and Economy
Government House
Republic Square, Yerevan
Tel:     (3742) 151-069
Fax:     (3742) 151-736
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           8/14/97
Appraisal Date                   6/97
Projected Board Date             8/26/97
Country and Sector Background
1.      Against a background of political and economic adversities,
and with external financing support from the IMF and the World
Bank, Armenia has made huge strides in reforming its economy and in
establishing a suitable policy framework. The stabilization
program, sustained since Spring 1994, has brought down the budget
deficit to 7 percent of GDP in 1996, less than a sixth of the 1993
figure. Annual inflation has fallen to under 8 percent. And after
years of collapse, GDP grew by 5.4 percent in 1994 and by nearly 7
percent in 1995 and by 5.8 percent in 1996.
2.      The core of the Government's reform program has been the
stimulation of the private sector. Almost all agricultural land was
privatized in 1991, making Armenia the first country to do so in
the former Soviet Union. Privatization of enterprises started
later, but has proceeded quickly, with over 80 percent of small
enterprises and about 65 percent of medium and large enterprises
privatized to date. Prices have been liberalized, and most consumer
subsidies, including that on bread, have been removed. State
trading arrangements have been eliminated, and the foreign exchange
and trade regime liberalized (Armenia is likely to be the first CIS
country to accede to the WTO). Most restrictions on the emerging
private sector have been dismantled, and laws on real property,
banks and banking, bank insolvency and commercial bankruptcy have
been adopted.
The Country's Reform Program
3.      The main objectives of the Government's economic program are



to consolidate the stabilization gains achieved through 1996 and to
strengthen prospects for sustained economic growth over the medium
term. To this effect, the Government is committed to maintaining
its prudent macroeconomic policy stance, while continuing to deepen
the comprehensive systemic reforms already underway. The Armenian
authorities recognize that further fiscal consolidation, and
continued progress on privatization, financial sector reform and
energy sector restructuring, are necessary underpinnings to
continued economic growth. At the same time, they are firmly
committed to ensuring that the continued costs of transition are
socially sustainable, and to preserving Armenia's highly educated
and skilled workforce. In this context, the Government intends to
make the reform of health and education a high priority in its
reform program for 1997.
4.      The proposed Second Structural Adjustment Technical
Assistance Credit (SATAC II) would support through technical
assistance, the implementation of the Government's structural
reform program for 1997. SATAC II supplements the balance of
payment and budgetary support that would be provided under the
Second Structural Adjustment Credit (SACII). The SAC II program
includes measures to: (a) improve financial discipline in the
private and public sectors, so as to increase domestic savings,
facilitate further external adjustment and ensure Armenia's
creditworthiness; (b) accelerate the growth and development of the
private sector; and (c) ensure the social sustainability of the
reform process and preserve Armenia's stock of highly-skilled human
capital.
The Proposed Loan/Credit
Objectives and Description
5.      The objective of the proposed SATAC II is to enhance the
capacity of the Armenian Government to implement their structural
reform program. The technical assistance program would be divided
in the following components:
Privatization Support. This component would focus on
supporting a pilot program of privatization through Initial
Public Offerings (IPOs). Financial advisors would help
prepare offering prospectus, disseminate and market these
prospectus, develop a public offering mechanism through the
stock exchange(s), and advise on sales strategy and
underwrite the offering.
Capital Markets Development. This component would support the
development of a capital markets development strategy, which
would include an assessment of the current situation and an
action plan to address issues related to: regulatory
authority; stock exchanges; clearing and settlement;
depository institutions; Government securities market;
institutional investors; and commodity exchanges. The
component would also finance advisory services in
establishing a National Depository Institution (NDI) and
- 2-



formulating the scope of and the requirements for its main
operations; development and financing of the appropriate
information technology equipment and other start-up expenses.
Financial Sector. New chart of accounts for the banking
system based on IAS standards have been developed and
approved. To facilitate the actual introduction of IAS
transaction accounting it is envisaged to train and advise
staff from individual banks' accounting departments. In
parallel, technical assistance would be extended to the
Central Bank of Armenia to design a privatization strategy
and assist in its implementation, as well as to strengthen
its capacity to monitor reporting.
Energy Sector Reforms. This component would comprise
assistance in redefining the role and functions of the
Ministry of Energy, in strengthening the tariffs setting and
licensing capacities of the newly created Energy Regulatory
Commission, in facilitating the introduction of International
Accounting Standards transaction accounting in power
distribution, transmission, and generation companies, and in
facilitating the privatization of energy enterprises.
Social Protection. Assistance has been requested in improving
the targeting of social benefits and in developing a strategy
for pension reform.
Health & Education. This component would comprise: (i) the
development of a hospital restructuring strategy, including
development of procedures to carry out restructuring and
consolidation operations; (ii) studying and defining human
resource needs for the health care sector; (iii) support the
working group in charge of preparing higher and technical
education strategies; and (iv) develop programs aimed at
assisting schools during their transition to becoming
autonomous by providing training for administrative staff in
budget planning, financial reporting, accounting and
management.
Resource Mobilization. Under previous technical assistance
projects, assistance was provided to initiate the
computerization of the Treasury, of the State Tax
Inspectorate, and of the Customs Department. These programs
have been successful in their initial phases and it is
proposed to finance their expansion to cover all major
regional and municipal offices. It is also envisaged to
provide assistance in strengthening the overall financial
management capacity of the Government, including expenditure
planning and budgeting, accounting and auditing rules, and
public procurement monitoring.
Public Information and Judicial Reforms. The proposed
assistance would aim at developing a public information
strategy and at preparing programs covering economic reform
issues currently under discussion, such as energy sector
- 3 -



privatization, reform of social protection, resource
mobilization, and capital markets development. The component
would also finance assistance for the design and
establishment of new court administration, financing and
management systems, new budgeting procedures, new court and
case management procedures, redefinition of court fees, and
improvement of the execution of judgments.
Financing
6.      The total project cost is estimated at US$5.5 million,
financed by the proposed credit of US$ 5.0 million equivalent and
by a contribution from the Government of Armenia in the amount of
US$500,000.
Project Implementation
7.      The proposed SATAC II would be made to the Republic of
Armenia represented by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Overall
coordination of project activities and general loan administration
will be the responsibility of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and Economy
within the Foreign Aid Coordination Center (FACC).
8.      All procurement under the proposed SATAC II project will be
according to Bank guidelines on procurement and on use of
consultants. For consultant contracts, terms of reference for the
activities to be financed under the proposed Credit have been
prepared by the Government and agreed with IDA during negotiations.
The Bank's standard forms of consultant contract would be utilized.
9.      The project manager will maintain all project accounts, which
will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
World Bank in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on auditing and
financial reporting. Audit reports will be submitted to the World
Bank not later than six months after the close of each year or the
date of final disbursement.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
10.     The implementation of the first technical assistance project
to Armenia, the Institution Building Loan, was initially slow, due
to lack of experience with projects of this nature in the
implementing agencies and to the difficult circumstances in the
country in 1993-94. Since late 1994, implementation has been
considerably stronger, reflecting the improved physical and
political circumstances, experience gained in project management,
and renewed momentum in the reform effort; indeed, the availability
of Institution Building Loan funds has proved critical for the
implementation of certain elements of the reform program supported
by the Rehabilitation Credit and led to the parallel presentation
of a Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit and a
Structural Adjustment Credit in February 1996.
Environmental Aspects and Participatory Approach
- 4 -



11.     The proposed credit will have no direct impact on the
environment. For the purposes of OD 4.01, the proposed credit has
been placed in Category C which does not require an environmental
assessment.
12.     The main stakeholders in the institution building efforts are
the implementing agencies responsible for the various project
activities. To build ownership at that level, the activities to be
financed from the proposed SATACII are based on written proposals
submitted by the implementing agencies at the time of pre-
appraisal. Subsequently, all proposals were developed into terms of
reference through a process of close consultation.
Program Objective Categories
13.     The proposed project would contribute to the development of
Armenia through its potential impact on private and public savings.
The environment for the development of the private sector will be
improved, creating the conditions for it to become the engine of
growth. The assistance in improving the targeting of social
assistance and in reforming basic health and education will
underpin efforts to strengthen the safety net and alleviate poverty.
Contact Point:           Cyril Muller, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-0564
Fax No.: (202) 522-3607
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 22, 1997.
Republic of Armenia
Second Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
Technical Annex
The Second Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
(SATAC II) shares the objectives of the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC II) to improve financial discipline in the
private and public sectors, to promote growth and development of
the private sector, and to ensure the social sustainability of the
reform process. SATAC II will contribute to meeting these
objectives by enhancing the capacity of the Armenian Government to
implement the structural reform program supported by SAC II.
- 5 -



The proposed SATAC II technical assistance priorities and
activities identified with the assistance of the ministries and
institutions responsible for their implementation are described
below. These activities complement technical assistance programs
from other donors. The proposed technical assistance program
amounts to US$5.5 million (including contingencies and local
contribution). Terms of Reference and detailed budgets for all
activities have been prepared and agreed during negotiations.
Project administration will be handled by the Project
Implementation Unit of the Institution Building Loan. The
Government of Armenia will contribute directly to the program
through the provision of a small amount of in-kind and local
financing to cover operational expenditures. Key performance
indicators and a procurement plan were agreed during negotiations
and are attached to this Technical Annex.
The institutional capacity of the Government has been
significantly strengthened through the support provided by the Bank
through the Institution Building Loan and the SATAC, and by other
donors, especially USAID, UNDP, the German Government, the French
Government, and the European Union TACIS program. The following
activities will be financed:
A. Improving Financial Discipline In Private and Public Sectors
I. Resource Mobilization (US$800,000)
Efforts to strengthen the Government's resource mobilization
capacity are critical to sustain fiscal adjustment while securing
sufficient resources for public services. Under the IBL and the
SATAC, assistance has been provided to initiate the computerization
of the State Tax Inspectorate and of the Customs Department. These
programs have been successful in their initial phases and it is
proposed to finance their expansion to cover all major regional and
municipal offices. For these computerization programs to have a
large impact on resource mobilization, assistance has been
requested in strengthening the investigation and enforcement
departments of the Customs and the State Tax Inspectorate. In
addition, to complement these efforts aimed at improving revenue
collection, it is proposed to strengthen public expenditure
planning and programming.
Customs Computerization & Revenue Enhancement
Objectives: The Customs Department has successfully implemented
(with the assistance of UNCTAD) a program of computerization of the
customs clearance process (ASYCUDA) in the main regional offices.
The objective of the proposed assistance is to computerize the
border posts and to establish direct communication links with the
banking payment system. In addition, successful implementation of
the revenue enhancement strategy under preparation by the Ministry
the Ministry of Finance will require external support to prepare
the revised administrative procedures and carry out a
reorganization of customs control functions.
- 6 -



Scope of work: The assistance will consist of: completion of the
computerization program to include all border posts, including
connection with banking system communication network; and advisory
services to strengthen the investigation division of the Customs
Department.
Amount: US$250,000
Computerization of State Tax Inspectorate
Objectives: Complete the program of automation of tax return
processing in all major tax offices and strengthen the
investigation department of the State Tax Inspectorate.
Scope of work:   The completion of the program of automation of
tax return processing requires setting up of a network between the
various offices and training of staff of regional offices in the
operation of the system. Training of staff in risk management
techniques and investigative methods will be included. This
component will be implemented in close cooperation with the IMF.
Amount: US$400,000
Public Expenditure Management
Objectives: Strengthen the overall financial management
capacity of the Government, including expenditure planning and
programming, accounting and auditing rules, and public procurement
practices.
Scope of work:   Assistance will be extended in developing an
integrated financial management strategy. The Government has
identified the following issues on which the strategy should
provide detailed recommendations: public expenditure prioritization
and planning, public investment programming, procurement procedures
and controls, and financial reporting and auditing.
Amount: US$150,000
II. Deepening Reforms In Energy Sector (US$950,000)
Energy-related arrears remain a main source of "soft" budget
constraints in the economy. In 1996, the Government embarked on an
ambitious reform of the energy sector aiming to restore the
financial viability of the sector and to improve service provision.
Substantial progress was achieved during 1996 in improving
collections, adjusting tariffs, improving the reliability of
supply, designing a new regulatory framework, and initiating the
unbundling of the industry. During 1997, priority will be given to
financial strengthening, institutional reforms, and privatization
of sector enterprises. The proposed technical assistance will aim
to facilitate institutional reforms and to mobilize strategic
investors interested in the privatization of sector enterprises.
- 7 -



Assistance in Reorganization of the Ministry of Energy
Objectives: With the adoption of the Energy Law which separates
the policy making, regulatory and operating functions in the
sector, the role and functions of the Ministry of Energy have
changed drastically. The Ministry used to manage the sector in its
entirety from policy making to operation management. Its new role
and functions must be redefined with a reorientation towards policy
formulation, management of the privatization program, and handling
of the state's interest in the privatized sector. The proposed
assistance aims at supporting this process of reorganization.
Scope of work: Consulting services are required to assist in
the design and implementation of the internal reorganization
process of the Ministry of Energy. It will involve reviewing the
timing and sequencing of the reorganization, the responsibility of
the various groups involved in its implementation and the
associated costs. In addition, it will strengthen the capacity of
the Ministry of Energy to supervise the privatization process.
Amount: US$75,000
Conversion of Power Companies to New Accounting Standards
Objective: Power sector companies are being corporatized and
will apply for licensing under procedures consistent with the
Energy Law. The objective of the assistance is to facilitate the
actual introduction of IAS transaction accounting in power
distribution, transmission and generation companies during 1998.
Scope of work: The proposed project would finance: training and
advisory services to the accounting departments of the individual
power companies; and assistance to the Ministry of Energy in
overseeing the process, including strengthening its capacity to
monitor reporting. The implementation of this component will be
coordinated with USAID's program in this area.
Amount: US$300,000
Strengthening of Energy Regulatory Commission
Objectives: The newly established independent Energy Regulatory
Commission (ERC) is responsible for issuing licenses and approving
tariffs in the energy sector. ERC is facing the immediate dual
task of reviewing the cost structure of gas, electricity and heat
supply for 1997, and of developing the detailed licensing
procedures for sector enterprises. The objective of the assistance
is to provide the necessary analytical underpinnings needed to
complete successfully the tariff review and the initiation of
licensing procedures.
Scope of work: During the first year of operation of ERC,
external and local consulting services, will be provided to carry
out analytical work on tariffs and licensing, as well as on
institutional issues relating to the organization and daily
- 8 -



operations of ERC. Operating costs of ERC will also be partly
covered.
Amount: US$125,000
Financial Advisors for Power Sector Privatization
Objectives: The Privatization Law allows for the privatization
of enterprises which may be attractive for strategic investors
(both domestic and foreign) through a competitive tender process.
This type of privatization was successfully used for several large
industrial enterprises. The Armenian Government is preparing a
privatization strategy for the energy sector which envisages a role
for strategic investors. The objective of this component is to
improve operating efficiency by retaining financial advisors to
prepare and market the energy enterprises included in the program.
Scope of work: It is proposed to replicate in the energy sector
the approach adopted in the Strategic Investors Program which
covered 11 large industrial enterprises. The financial advisors
will prepare information memorandums, undertake the promotion of
the sales, and assist the Government in the sales negotiations. The
project would finance only the retainer fee of the financial
advisors, and thus exclude any participation in the payment of
success fees.
Amount: US$450,000
III. Public Information & Judicial Reforms (US$700,000)
Public information and participation during the design and
implementation of economic reform programs are critical to their
sustainability. There is broad consensus in Armenia about the need
for continued economic reforms and for a rapid transition to a
market economy. To maintain this consensus, the Government wants
to expand existing public information and education programs.
Public Information Strategy & Preparation of Campaigns/Programs
Objectives: Rather than preparing ad-hoc public information
campaigns and programs on the various economic issues, the
Government has decided to develop a comprehensive strategy which
would: (i) define a program of broad-based public information and
education targeted at key audiences, such as policy makers, media,
universities, Parliament, and regional/municipal authorities; (ii)
identify key reform issues which should be the subject of intensive
programs and campaigns; and (iii) develop new instruments of
communication and information.
Scope of work: The strategy will be developed by a Working
Group which would be supported by foreign experts and local
consultants.    In addition, assistance will be extended to prepare
a first set of campaigns and programs which will focus on economic
reform issues which are currently at the core of public debate,
-9-



such as energy sector privatization, reform of social protection,
and resource mobilization.
Amount: US$350,000
Support for Judicial Sector Reforms
Objectives: An ambitious program of legal and judicial reforms
has been prepared by a Commission consisting of representatives of
the judiciary, legislative and executive branches. The
implementation of this program is supported by a number of donors.
The Government has requested the World Bank to focus its assistance
on the judicial sector, especially on court administration.
Scope of work: This component would finance urgent technical
assistance for the design and establishment of new court
administration, financing and management systems; new budgeting
procedures; new court and case management procedures; redefinition
of court fees; and improvement of the execution of judgments.
Amount: US$350,000
B. Accelerating the Development of the Private Sector
I. Privatization (US$350,000)
During 1996, the Government made significant progress on
privatization. As of end-July, 1997 about 1,500 medium and large
enterprises had been offered for sale and the Government is
committed to privatize about 100 medium and large enterprises per
month during 1997. Most privatizations take place through a public
voucher auction system. Other methods of privatization are allowed
in the Law on Privatization and during 1996 a program of
competitive tender to attract strategic investors was initiated.
Support for Initial Public Offerings
Objective: The Government has decided to introduce an
additional method of privatization: initial public offerings for
cash (IPOs). Initial public offerings as a method of privatization
presents the advantage of providing a demonstration effect of the
advantages of listing and trading of shares, thus contributing to
the development of the equity market which has been slow to emerge
in Armenia. Several enterprises will be selected for a pilot
program and the Government has requested advisory services to
prepare and implement the program.
Scope of work: The advisors will prepare and market the
enterprises in the program and act as underwriter of the shares.
Specifically, the advisors will: develop mechanisms for
distribution of shares, including recommendations on qualifying
requirements for Armenian institutions to intermediate IPOs;
prepare the necessary documentation for the promotion, including
the prospectus for each enterprise; promote the privatization
process among potential investors and the Armenian public;
- 10 -



recommend technical criteria for pricing of shares; and underwrite
the share offerings on a best efforts basis.
Amount: US$350,000
II. Capital Markets (US$550,000)
The focus of the Government's efforts to develop capital markets
has been on establishing the necessary legal and regulatory
framework. Among initial steps taken were the establishment of a
national share registry and the creation of an Inspection and
Market Supervision Commission within the Ministry of Finance.
However, much remains to be done--in finalizing the overall legal
framework; in developing the supporting institutions needed for the
growth of capital markets; and in creating the environment to
attract market activities. Technical assistance to strengthen the
legal and regulatory framework is available under the Enterprise
Development Project.
Capital Markets Assessment
Objective: Because the development of the capital markets
involves many different players as well as significant resources in
terms of the needed market infrastructure, the Government would
like to adopt a comprehensive and coordinated approach to the
development of the sector. The Government is requesting assistance
for the preparation of a strategy for the Armenian capital markets.
Scope of work: The strategy will include: an assessment of all
existing capital market institutions (stock exchanges, brokerages,
National Registry, Investment Funds, commercial banks and others)
to determine their strengths and weaknesses; the identification of
institutions which have not yet been developed and which are
required for a vibrant and transparent capital market;
recommendations on a proposed market structure, on fostering share
trading, clearing and settlement, and payment systems; and an
action program to improve existing institutions and to develop new
ones.
Amount: US$150,000
Establishment of National Depository Institution
Objective: The Government intends to establish a National
Depository Institution (NDI) in order to support capital market
activity. The NDI will serve as the main depository for all
investment securities, process transactions in such securities and
execute clearing and settlement of the accounts of the financial
institutions with the NDI. This will simplify transactions in
securities, expedite their execution and thereby stimulate
increasing volume of activity in the market place.
Scope of work: The proposed assistance would finance advisory
services in establishing the NDI and formulating the scope of and
- 11 -



the requirements for its main operations; development and
installation of the appropriate information technology equipment
and other qualifying start-up expenses.
Amount: US$400,000
III. Financial Sector (US$650,000)
During 1996, the Government and the Central Bank of Armenia
(CBA) made considerable progress in laying the legal and
institutional framework for a sounder banking sector. In
particular, new laws on the central bank, on banks, and on
bankruptcy of banks, were adopted by Parliament. In addition,
prudential regulations were strengthened and strictly enforced, and
a new system of accounts based on internationally accepted
standards (IAS) was developed and adopted. Priorities for 1997
include resolving problems in Armenia's large former state banks,
designing and implementing a privatization program for the Savings
Bank, and moving the majority of the banks to full IAS accounting
systems.
Support to the Privatization of the Savings Bank
Objective: An initial restructuring program for the Savings Bank
was implemented in 1996, and on-site examination and audit started
in the first half of 1997. In 1998, the Government intends to
privatize the Savings Bank. The objective of the proposed
assistance is to design a privatization strategy and to support its
implementation.
Scope of work: Advisory services will be financed to propose
options for the privatization of the Savings Bank. Based on the
approved privatization program, it is proposed to support the
actual implementation of the privatization process, including in
attracting possible investors and upgrading of communications
capacities of the bank.
Amount: US$350,000
Conversion to International Accounting Standards
Objective: New chart of accounts for the banking system based on
IAS standards have been developed and approved. The objective of
the assistance is to facilitate the actual introduction of IAS
transaction accounting in the majority of banks during 1997.
Scope of work: The proposed project would finance: training and
advisory services to the accounting departments of the individual
banks; and assistance to the CBA in overseeing the process,
including strengthening its capacity to monitor reporting. The
implementation of this component will be closely coordinated with a
USAID project covering accounting reform and training.
Amount: US$300,000
- 12 -



C. Ensuring the Social Sustainability Of the Reform Process
I. Social Protection (US$475,000)
The Government is committed to the principle of social equity in
the distribution of social benefits, meaning that only the needy
should receive benefits financed by the state budget. However, the
goal of accurately targeting social benefits is made formidably
difficult by the unusual and changing nature of poverty in Armenia.
Many families have unrecorded or informal sources of income, and
the usual poverty correlates have been shown to be poor predictors
of poverty.
Reform Of Social Benefits
Objectives: Following the removal of tariff exemptions for
electricity and other services granted to privileged groups and the
introduction of a cash transfer to compensate more narrowly defined
vulnerable groups, the Government intends to consolidate all social
transfers into one single vulnerability benefit. The Government has
requested assistance in designing the new benefit program.
Scope of work: Two activities have been identified: an
evaluation of the Paros system (large-scale proxy means test) will
be conducted to assess the possibility of using a revised Paros as
a targeting mechanism the future single vulnerability benefit; and
the development of a system of improved tracking of the vulnerable
population.
Amount: US$200,000
Pension Reform Strategy
Objectives: The Government's pension strategy aims at
establishing a "three pillar" system, comprising a publicly
managed, minimum old-age pension; privately managed compulsory
earnings-related pension funds; and private pension arrangements.
The objective of this component is to assist the working group on
pension reform in the development of a coherent strategy.
Scope of work: Issues that the group will consider include: the
financial viability of the current public system; a schedule for
the development of private voluntary and compulsory systems; the
drafting of legislation; and the regulatory framework for private
pension funds. Staff training in financial forecasting and pension
reform will be provided (including a possible study tour and/or
twinning with pension staff from other countries).
Amount: US$275,000
II. Health Sector Reform (US$280,000)
Chronic underfunding and inefficiency of the health care system
have led to a steady deterioration in quality and standards of
- 13 -



health care, and are reflected in declining health indicators. The
Government is committed to improving access to and quality of
health care within the framework of the overall economic reform
program. In 1996, the Government adopted a health financing
strategy based on the separation of financing and provision of
health care. The most dramatic step taken to date is the
introduction of a program budgeting approach based on a minimum
Basic Benefit Package (BBP) of services entirely financed by the
state. All other health care services are being provided on a fee-
for-service basis.
Hospital Sector Restructuring
Objective: To improve the effectiveness of the hospital sector,
the Government is defining a strategy for hospital restructuring
that will allow for closing, merging and/or reprofiling of public
hospitals, privatization of hospitals, and re-licensing. In
parallel, the Government will privatize during 1997 six hospitals
and introduce private management in two others. The objective of
the proposed assistance is to facilitate the development of the
hospital sector restructuring strategy and its implementation.
Scope of work: Consulting services are needed to develop: a
needs based masterplan for hospital capacity for tertiary care at
the national level and for secondary care at regional level (this
will be based on an assessment of current hospital capacity); and a
hospital sector consolidation strategy which will include a short-
and medium-term implementation plan.
Amount: US$130,000
Human Resource Development Strategy
Objective: The reorientation of health care provision raises
questions about the qualifications of existing health care
personnel. The Government is preparing a strategy and an
implementation plan to regulate medical training/education. The
strategy will focus on the following issues: restructuring of basic
and post-graduate medical training programs; licensing of medical
schools, internship/residency programs and training sites; and
regulation of enrollment in medical education programs. The
Government has requested assistance in preparing this strategy.
Scope of work: Foreign consultants will conduct two studies in
close cooperation with staff of the Ministry of Health: (i) a
Health Human Resources Study to assess future needs for the various
health care related professions; and (ii) a Health Human Resources
Development Strategy on how the identified needs will be met,
including defining the role of the Government, revision of the
existing list of medical specializations, role of the different
training institutions, and a plan to fill the gaps.
Amount: US$105,000
Public Health Strategy
- 14 -



Objective: The Government recognizes that prevention could
significantly improve the health status of the Armenian population.
In this context, the Government intends to develop priority public
health policies. The Ministry of Health will prepare a strategy
paper proposing measures to improve public health. The strategy
paper will review the feasibility and effectiveness of a range of
anti-smoking measures.
Scope of work: Consultants will assist the Armenian authorities
in developing a public health strategy and the establishment of a
national focal point for public health policy coordination and
implementation.
Amount: US$45,000
III. Education Reform (US$190,000)
Technical and Higher Education Review
Objective: Over the last few years the Government has given
priority to reforming general education and has adopted an
Education and Financing Sector Strategy. The objective of the
proposed assistance is to extend reforms to technical and higher
education.
Scope of work: Foreign advisors would assist working groups in
carrying out the following two tasks: assess the situation of the
higher education and technical education sectors; and define reform
strategies and implementation plans for these sectors.
Amount: US$140,000
Financial Planning and Management of School Systems
Objective: To make schools more efficient, the Government
intends to increase school autonomy. For this purpose it has
adopted a decree which gives school principals and boards full
responsibility for school management. The objective of the
assistance is to strengthen the financial planning and management
systems of schools.
Scope of work: The proposed assistance will develop programs
aimed at assisting schools during their transition to becoming
autonomous. It is proposed to train the administrative staff of
autonomous schools in budget planning, financial reporting,
accounting and overall management.
Amount: US$50,000
(Note: Tables available only in hard copy upon request from
The Public Information Center)
- 15 -



