           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                    International Development Association                                      87193
                      International Finance Corportation
                  Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                             EDS97-322Rev.
                               CONFIDENTIAL                                                  August 26, 1997


  Board Meeting of August 26,1997
  Statement by Brian Crowe
  On behalf of Mrs. Piercy, US Executive Director

                ARMENIA: Country Assistance Strategy and Second Structural
                                Adjustment and Technical Assistance Credits
         [Lines 2 and 3 on the second page were inadvertently dropped in the earlier version}


  1.      The United States is pleased to support the Second Structural Adjustment Credit and the
  Country Assistance Strategy for Armenia. We commend staff for a well-focused strategy and
  endorse the three reform objectives: consolidating macroeconomic stability; accelerating private
  sector development as the basis for sustained growth; and ensuring the social sustainability of the
  reform process.

   2.     We support the Bank's projected lending program and agree with the triggers for the two
   lending scenarios (high/base and medium). We encourage and envisage that Armenia will
   continue to meet the policy and performance goals for the high/base case lending program, that
   includes gradual resumption ofiBRD lending. We note that Armenia's per capita income of
   $830 places it well within the $925 IDA guideline. Given Armenia's limited creditworthiness,
 . good economic performance, and vulnerability to downside risks, we believe that Armenia
   should continue to receive a generous share of IDA allocations.

  3.      Armenia has made remarkable economic progress, but as the CAS notes, economic
  recovery remains fragile. We strongly urge the Armenian authorities to meet the challenges of
  consolidating the gains of reform. Particular areas for priority attention are improving tax and
  customs administration, collection of arrears from known tax offenders and reduction of energy
  arrears run up by "essential" enterprises.

  4.      Armenia's sustained economic growth depends upon the development of a strong,
  productive private sector. Armenia's privatization program is ambitious yet incomplete. A
  number of major enterprises are being offered for privatization by the end of this year through
  international tender. Foreign and domestic investors are watching for clear signals that the
  government seriously supports a transparent privatization process and is committed to maintain
  progress in establishing an appropriate legal and regulatory framework. ~s the CAS rightly


lis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
~rfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
7orld Bank authorization.
                                                2


points out, a sound financial sector is essential for promoting private sector investment.
Confidence in the banking sector has increased, but we urge the Bank to continue its assistance
and advice for restructuring and strengthening the banking sector. We would like to point out
that there has been close and successful collaboration between the Bank and USAID on energy
and banking sector refonns.

5.      The incidence of poverty is high, 30% in urban areas. The Government of Armenia and
the CAS recognize the importance of social sustainability and ensuring that the transitional
poverty does not become structural. We therefore strongly support the emphasis that the Bank
program places on targeted poverty interventions, and health and education reform to improve
quality and access. Elimination of subsidies to privileged groups and cuts in defense
expenditures would also help lay the foundation for directing budgetary resources to the social
sectors and building a more equitable system.

6.     We understand from Bank staff that the government of Armenia is fully aware of the high
costs of corruption on private sector development. In this respect, we appreciate the CAS's
emphasis on transparency in privatization, and toughness on tax collections and energy arrears.
However, we urge the Bank to continue highlighting the issue of corruption in its policy dialogue
and assistance.

7.      Sustained economic recovery and continued growth depend on permanent resolution of
the Nagomo-Karabakh conflict and increased regional cooperation. A new initiative has been
started by the U.S., Russia, and France in the OSCE context to reach a settlement. Initial
response from the parties is encouraging.
