Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2981 AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 2, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2981 AM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 2, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association  has received a letter dated July 30, 1997 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (the Program), declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and the Association has agreed 
to finance urgently needed imports and services required during the execution of the 
Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement of even date herewith 
between the Borrower and the Association (the Second Structural Adjustment Development 
Credit Agreement); and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making this 
Second Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty 
(30) days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after 
consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, or (c) 
at any time, the Association determines, with respect to 
any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices 
were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of 
a beneficiary of the 
Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without 
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the 
Association determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures  set forth or 
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and establishes 
the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) 
after the 
Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  
Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"FACC" means the Foreign Aid Coordination Center within the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance and Economy; 
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Energy Regulatory Commission" means a commission established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Energy Law of 1997; and 
(d)
"IAS" means International Accounting Standards issued or endorsed by the 
International Accounting Standards Committee.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,600,000).
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each January 1 and July 1 commencing January 1, 2008 and ending July 1, 2032.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 1, 2017 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
Page  4
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, technical and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain a 
project implementation unit within FACC with staff and other resources and terms of 
reference, satisfactory to the Association, which shall be responsible for 
implementation of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association.
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably request; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
Page  5
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (b) of the General Conditions, the 
following event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Ministry of Finance and Economy
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Republic of Armenia
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
Page  6
By /s/ Ruben Shugarian 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Judy O’Connor 
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated 
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants'
   1,130,000
100%
services
(2)
Unallocated
40,000
         TOTAL
   3,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred by a project implementation unit referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement, including office supplies, and minor office equipment, transportation and 
communication costs and translation of the Project documentation, but excluding 
salaries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (b) services provided by consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (c) services provided by individual 
consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (d) incremental 
operating costs under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower’s institutional 
capacity to implement the measures under the Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
Page  7
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Privatization and Capital Markets Reform
(1)
Provision of technical assistance to support a pilot program of privatization 
through initial public offerings.
(2)
Provision of technical assistance for the preparation of a strategy for 
development of capital markets.
(3)
Provision of goods and technical assistance to support the establishment of a 
national depository institution.
Part B:
Financial Sector
(1)
Provision of technical assistance to the Ministry of Finance and Economy to 
develop and carry out a privatization strategy for the Savings Bank; and provision of 
goods to establish an information network among the Savings Bank branches.
(2)
Provision of consultants’ services and training to facilitate the introduction 
of  IAS transaction accounting in commercial banks.
Part C:
Energy Sector
(1)
Provision of goods and technical assistance to support the reorganization of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Energy.
(2)
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training to facilitate the 
introduction of IAS transaction accounting in power sector companies.
(3)
Provision of technical assistance to assist in implementation of a strategic 
privatization program for power sector companies.
(4)
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the Energy 
Regulatory Commission and the regulation of other infrastructure services.
Part D:
Social Protection
(1)
Provision of goods and technical assistance in the designing of a new system of 
benefits for poor households.
(2)
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training for the development of a  
pension reform strategy.
Part E:
Health Sector Reform
(1)
Provision of goods and technical assistance for the development and 
implementation of a hospital sector restructuring strategy.
(2)
Provision of consultants’ services to assist in designing a strategy and an 
implementation plan to improve medical education and training.
(3)
Provision of consultants’ services in carrying out a study reviewing the 
feasibility and effectiveness of a range of public health measures.
Part F:
Education Reform
(1)
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training for: (a) assessing the 
situation of the technical education sector at the secondary and tertiary levels; and 
(b) preparing a technical education reform strategy and an implementation plan.
(2)
Provision of goods and consultants’ services for:  (a)  assessing the situation 
of the higher education sector; and (b)  preparing a higher education reform strategy 
and an implementation plan.
(3)
Provision of goods, consultants’ services and training to develop financial 
planning and management in schools.
Part G:
Resource Mobilization
(1)
Provision of goods and technical assistance to assist in the computerization of 
the Customs Department, the Treasury and the State Tax Inspectorate of the Borrower.
Page  8
(2)
Provision of goods and consultants’ services to strengthen the capacity of the 
Customs Department and of the State Tax Inspectorate to combat tax fraud.
(3)
Provision of goods and technical assistance to improve public expenditures 
management.
Part H:
Public Information
Provision of goods and technical assistance to develop a public information 
strategy and preparation of programs covering economic reform issues.
Part I:  Judicial Sector
Provision of goods and technical assistance to support the Borrower’s judicial 
reform program.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping  
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  9
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or more, and (ii) the first contract awarded under the provisions of Part C.1 of this 
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants 
Services for carrying out activities under Parts C, D, E, F and G of the Project  
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
Page  10
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
US$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  
Page  11
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
