Page  1
October 9, 2001
Mr. M. Stavrakakis
Secretary General
For International Economic Relations, 
Ministry of National Economy,  
Athens, Hellenic Republic 
Dear Mr. Stavrakakis:
Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the International 
Development Association ("IDA") concerning Assistance for the 
Armenia Population Census (Trust Fund No. 029889)
We are pleased to acknowledge on behalf of the International Development 
Association ("IDA") the intention of the Hellenic Republic (the "Donor") to make 
available to IDA the amount of US dollars one hundred thousand (US$100,000) (the 
"Contribution") as a grant for the purpose of financing the Assistance for the Armenia 
Population Census (the "Project"). Other donors are also expected to contribute to 
this trust fund.
The Contribution shall be used for the purposes described in the Attachment to 
this letter which forms an integral part of this agreement. The administration and use 
of the Contribution will be subject to the provisions of this Letter of Agreement and 
to the "Standard Provisions Applicable to Donors to the Trust Fund to Finance the 
Project" (the "Standard Provisions") attached hereto as an Annex. The Standard 
Provisions constitute an integral part of this Letter of Agreement. The Donor 
authorizes IDA to use the Contribution funds to pay the Recipient for eligible 
expenditures made (or, if IDA shall so agree, to be made) under and in accordance with 
the Grant Agreement. IDA shall furnish a copy of the Grant Agreement between IDA and 
the Recipient (the Grant Agreement) to the Donor. 
The Donor shall deposit the entire amount of the Contribution into the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development's Cash Account "T" (Account 
No.IBRT 000125199, Routing Code 021001088, Swift Address MRMDUS33) which is maintained 
with the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Bank USA (HSBC Bank USA) in New 
York City (the "T-Account") promptly following confirmation of this Agreement by the 
Donor. When making such deposit, the Donor shall instruct HSBC Bank USA to advise the 
IBRD's Treasury Operations Department by SWIFT (IBRDUS33), telex (MCI 248423) or fax 
(202-522-1564) as to the amount received; that it is from the Hellenic Republic for 
TF029889 - Undertaking of the Armenia Population Census and, the date of the deposit. 
In addition, the Donor shall send a fax copy of its deposit instruction to IBRD's 
Trust Fund's Division (fax: (202) 477-7163).
The Trust Fund arrangement covered by this Letter of Agreement will terminate on 
June
30, 2002, or on such date as the Contribution shall have been fully utilized, 
whichever comes earlier, unless the Donor and IDA otherwise agree in writing.
The offices responsible for coordination of all matters related to the 
implementation of this agreement are:
For IDA
South Caucasus Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC  20433
U.S.A.
Tel: 202-458-7410
Fax: 202-522-3607
For the Donor
Mr. M. Stavrakakis
Secretary General
For International Economic Relations, 
Ministry of National Economy,  
Page  2
Athens, Hellenic Republic 
Tel.: (301) 328-62-01
Fax: (301) 328-62-09
We propose that this letter shall, upon your confirmation in the manner 
indicated below, constitute an agreement between the Donor and IDA.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Judy M. O’Connor
Country Director for Armenia
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region 
CONFIRMED AND AGREED:
Ministry of National Economy of  
Hellenic Republic
By /s/ M. Stavrakakis
Secretary General
Date :  October 22, 2001
ATTACHMENT
Armenia Population Census 
1.
Background and objectives 
By several historical and economic reasons, since 1998 Armenia has experienced 
severe shifts in the population structure, while the authorities did not have 
sufficient capabilities for adequate monitoring of such demographic developments. The 
last (1989) census in Armenia was conducted under rather difficult conditions and did 
not provide reliable results. Thus, in contrast to other FSU states, on the one hand, 
Armenia does not have a reliable baseline population data, and on the other hand, it 
was more seriously affected by out-migration in 90-s. A poor status of demographic 
data makes development of social and economic policies increasingly difficult for the 
Government. In particular, it undermines efficiency of donor assistance and 
humanitarian relief. There is a major need for conducting a population census that 
would provide a reliable update of Armenia’s demographic profile. The census would 
help the Government to make necessary adjustments in its economic and social policies 
by providing adequate data on population count, its social and demographic structure, 
spatial distribution and housing conditions.
2.   Program description
The census design follows the best international practice and has been discussed 
in detail with international advisers. The overall Census activities consist of three 
main stages: (i) Pre-Census activities; (ii) the main headcount; and (iii) post-Census 
actions.
The census activities started in early 2000 by the preparatory work on the 
pilot, which was conducted in September 2000. The pre-census activities are scheduled 
to be completed by October 2001. The main headcount is scheduled for October 9-19, 
2001. It is envisaged that preliminary results would be available by the end of 2001. 
Post-census activities, including encoding and inputting, cross-checking, data 
analysis and publishing will be completed by mid-2003. Accordingly, the full final 
results of the census will be published by the end of 2003.
The overall number of people to be hired for the Census activities is about 15 
thousand, of which nearly 12,000 - enumerators, about 2000 - supervisors and almost 
600 - registrars.
Page  3
In 1999, Armenian Parliament passed the "Law on Census" stating that the 
Population Census must be conducted in 2001. Consequently, the Government adopted 
Resolution No 78 of February 19, 2000 that established timing for conducting the 
census (October 10-19, 2001) and set up a framework for its preparation. The National 
Statistical Service is designated as a leading agency responsible for the preparation 
and implementation of the census.
In March of 2001, the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between the 
Government of Armenia, National Statistical Service (NSS) and several Development 
Partners (DFID, IBRD, UN, USAID) confirming commitments of all interested parties to 
contribute to the successful implementation of the census. The NSS has been actively 
engaged in various programs of technical cooperation with leading statistical 
entities, including Eurostat, IBRD, and IMF.
3.  Budget
The full budget for the census was prepared with the assistance of international 
experts and amounts to about US$1,750,000.
4.  Donor assistance: Main directions for utilization of grant proceeds
     Given insufficiency of the existing budget allocation for undertaking the census 
in a timely and qualitative manner, the Armenian Government requested at the Donor 
Conference for Armenia, held in Paris on July 9-10, 2001, additional international 
assistance for this project. 
     In line with this request, the proceeds of the Grant will be used for financing 
of critical remaining preparatory activities and procurements of necessary goods. This 
includes financing of: (i) public information campaign, (ii) publishing necessary 
printing materials and maps, (iii) purchasing office material and equipment, (iv) 
operational costs, including transportation and communication, and (v) administration 
of the census.
ANNEX
Standard Provisions Applicable to Donors to the Trust Fund for
Assistance for the Armenia Population Census
The following provisions (hereinafter referred to as the "Standard Provisions") 
will be applicable to all agreements entered into between the International 
Development Association ("IDA") and donor countries and/or organizations (hereinafter 
individually and indistinctly referred to as the "Donor") that provide grants 
(individually and indistinctly referred to as the "Contribution") to IDA for the Trust 
Fund for the Assistance for the Armenia Population Census (the "Project").
I.  IDA’s Use of Grant funds and Administrative Cost Recovery Arrangements
Implementation of the Project shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Recipient.
All Contributions made available as grants to the Trust Fund (collectively the 
"Grant Funds") will be accounted for as a single Trust Fund and will be kept separate 
and apart from the funds of the IBRD and IDA. The Grant Funds may be comingled with 
other trust fund assets maintained in the T-Account. The Grant Funds in the T-Account 
may be freely exchanged by IDA into other currencies as may facilitate their 
disbursement. IDA may invest the Grant Funds pending their disbursement in any 
instrument in which IDA is authorized to invest its own funds. IDA shall credit all 
income earned to the Trust Fund to be used for the same purposes of the contributions. 
In order to assist in the defrayment of the costs of administration and other expenses 
incurred by IDA with respect to the Contribution, IDA may, following deposit of each 
Contribution by the Donor, withdraw from the T-Account a fee in an amount equal to two 
percent (2%) of the amount of Contribution.
II.  Fiduciary Responsibilities of IDA
IDA will exercise the same care in the discharge of the functions described in 
the Letter of Agreement (of which these Standard Provisions form an integral part) as 
it exercises with respect to the administration and management of its own affairs and 
shall have no further responsibility or liability to the Donor in respect thereof.
Page  4
III. Employment of Consultants, Procurement of Goods, and Financing of Operational 
Costs
The selection and recruitment of consultants, and the procurement and financing 
of expenditures for goods, services and other items of expenditure shall be done in 
accordance with normal IDA procedures applicable to such activities. The Grant funds 
could be used for: (a) procurement of goods such as office materials, office 
equipment, and vehicles, (b) financing of consulting services, including those in 
areas of publishing and informational services, and (c) financing of operational costs 
related to undertaking of the census, including those related to business 
communication and transportation of the staff involved in the census implementation.
IV.  Procedures to Govern IDA Grants
In the event that IDA deems it necessary to pass on the Grant Funds to an entity 
or entities, the following provisions will apply:
(a)
Within the limits provided for in the Letter Agreement, IDA will act as 
administrator of the Grant Funds, and as such will conclude an agreement with each 
recipient in connection with the provision of each grant.
(b)
IDA will be responsible for the administration of the Grant funds and of 
each agreement referred to in paragraph (a) immediately above; and may enter into such 
agreement and do any and all such acts and things as may be necessary or appropriate 
to accomplish fully the foregoing.
V.  Reporting Responsibilities of IDA
(a)
External Audit:  IDA will provide the donors, within six months following 
the end of each IDA fiscal year, a management assertion together with an attestation 
from IDA’s external auditors on the satisfactory performance of the procedures and 
controls used by IDA in administering trust funds. The cost of such attestation will 
be borne by IDA.
IDA will maintain separate records and ledger accounts in respect of the 
aggregate Grant Funds for the agreed activities and disbursements made therefrom. 
Within 90 days of the completion of the activities financed by the Grant Funds, IDA 
will prepare an unaudited financial statement in United States dollars with respect to 
the Grant Funds and forward a copy to each Donor.
(b)
IDA will maintain close consultation and coordination with the Donors. 
IDA will provide each Donor with quarterly reports on the activities financed by the 
Grant Funds. Within six (6) months of the completion of the activities, or of full 
disbursement of the Grant funds, whichever comes later, IDA will provide a final 
progress report to each Donor.
VI.  Termination
Upon termination as provided for in the Letter Agreement, unless the parties 
hereto agree on another course of action: (a) any agreement entered into between IDA 
and/or other third parties shall not be affected by the termination, and IDA shall be 
entitled to continue permitting withdrawals of Grant Funds in respect of such 
agreements as if this agreement had not been so terminated; and (b) any remaining 
Grant Funds shall be returned to the donors on a pro rata basis and IDA’s functions 
pursuant hereto shall be considered terminated. Within six (6)  months following such 
termination, IDA shall furnish to the Donors an unaudited financial statement with 
respect to the aggregate amount contributed by all Donors.
