Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13849-HA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HAITI
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 28, 1995
Department II
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



Currency Equivalents
Currency tUnit - Gourde (G.)
Exchange Rate: US$1.00 = G 14.00
Fiscal Year
October I - September 30
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Ahhreviations and Acronyms
APN                       Autorite Portuaire Nationale
CAMEP         :           Centrale Autonome Metropolitaine d'Eau Potable
CAMP          :           Community Action NMaintenance Program
CCCE          :           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CIF                       Cost Insurance Freight
CONATRA   :               Compagnie Nationale des Transports
('lJ          :           Coordinating Unit
DDT           :           Direction des Transports
DTP           :           Direction des Travaux Publics
EERC          :           Emergency' Economic Recoivery Credit
EERP          :           Emergency Economic Recovery Program
ERR                       Economic Rate of Return
EJ            :           European Union
FAC                       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FOB           :           Free on Board
GDP           :           Gross Domestic Product
GOH           :           Government ot Haiti
HDNI          :           Highway Design and Nlaintenance Model
ICB           :           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           :           International Development Association
IDB           :           Inter-American Development Bank
1,O           :           International Labor Organization
KFW           :           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederauthau (Germany)
LCB           :           Local Competitive Bidding
LNBTP         :           Laboratoire National des Batiments et Travaux Publics
MTPTC         :           Nlinistere des Travaux Publics, Transports et Communications
NPV           :           Net Present Value
OFNAC         :           Oftice National de l'Aviation Civile
OPEC          :           Organization of Petr(oleum  Exp(orting Countnes
OPS           :           Office of Project Services
PCR           :           Project Completion Report
PPF           :           Project Preparation Facility
SCCV                      Service de C(mtrole de la Circulation de Vehicules
SEEU          :           Service d'Entretien des Equipements Urbains
SEMANAH   :               Service Maritime et de Navigation d'Haiti
SEPRRN        :           Service d'Entretien Permanent du Reseau Routier National
SOEs          :           Statements otf Expenses
TORs          :           Terms of Reference
TNlP          :           Transport Nlaster Plan
UNDP          :           United Nations Development Program
USAID         :           United States Agency fLr Internati(nal Development
VOC           :           Vehicle Operating Costs
This report is hased on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Haiti in June 1991 anid a reappraisal mliSSion ot JaLnnary
1995. The first mission was led by C. Delvoie (Pr. financial Analyst) and inicluded S. Kowalski (Conisuiltant Highway Enigineer) anid
N. Salem (Research Assistant); the second comprised Messrs. P Gyamti (Pr Transport Specialist), G. Raitni Highway Engineer) aiidl
F. Montenegro (Transport Enginieer). The project was jointly appraised and reappraised hy IDB teams. Peer review was provied hi,
P. Gyamti (Pr. Transport Specialist), J.J. Raool (Sr. Highway Engineer) and P. Sooh (Sr. Municipal Engineer). Mrs. Calasich assisted
in producing the report. Messrs. G. Smith and MI. Staah sere the imianaging Division Chiefs anid Nlessrs. Y. Abe aiid E. Segura the
Departmlenit Directors tor the operationi.



- i -
HAITI
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Appraisal Report
INIDEX
Page
Credit and Project Summary .................................... iii
I.  Economic and Sector Setting
A. Economic Setting ...................................... 1
B. The Transport Sector .................................... 2
1. Transport Infrastructure  .................................  2
2. Transport Operations    ..................................  2
3. Sector Policies ...................................... 3
4. Institutional Set Up .................................... 3
5. Government Financing  and  Investment Priorities  ..................   4
C. The Road Subsector                                ..................... 5
1. The Road Network .................................... 5
2. Highway  Administration, Maintenance and  Planning   ...............   6
3. Private  Sector Participation  in Roadworks  ......................  8
4. Road-User Revenues and Maintenance Expenditures    ...............   8
5. Past Bank Group Experience .............................. 10
H1. The Project ............................................ 13
A. Background    ......................................... 13
B. Rationale for IDA Involvement ............................. 14
C. Project Objectives ..................................... 15
D. Project Description ..................................... 15
1. Program and Project Design .............................. 15
2. Components  ........................................ 16
3. Project Costs and Financing Plan .......................... . 19
4. Action Plan ....................................... . 21
m.  Implementation  Arrangements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . 23
A. Project Execution  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    23
B. Staffing ................................ .                                                                           23
C. IDA  Procurement . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . 24
D. Disbursements ................................                                                                        26
E. Financial Reporting and Auditing ........................... . 27
F. Monitoring ................................                                                                           28



Pag-e
IV. Project Evaluation and Risks ............................... 28
A. Economic  Evaluation   .............          ...................... 28
B. Environmental Assessment ............................... 30
C. Project Risks ...............................                                  31
V.  Summary of Agreements Reached ............................. . 32
VI. Recommendation ......................................... 34
Annexes
Annex 1 Transport Sector Policy Statement and Action Plan
Annex 2 Interurban and Urban Project Components
Annex 3 Technical Assistance, Training, Studies and Institutional Support
Annex 4 Project Implementation Arrangements
Annex 5 Supervision Plan
Annex 6 Selected Documents in Project File
Maps
1. IBRD 2321OR
2. IBRD 23213R



- iii -
HAITI
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Haiti.
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
(MTPTC).
Beneficiary:             Not applicable.
Poverty Category:        Not applicable.
Amount:                  SDR 34.6 million (US$50 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Commitment Fee:          0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:          See para. 2.26.
Net Present Value and Economic Returns:
US$153.2 million at a discount rate of 12% and economic rates
of return ranging between 40 and 60% for the road
rehabilitation component of the project.
Maps:                    IBRD 23210R
IBRD 23213R






- 1 -
HAITI
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
I. ECONOMIC AND SECTOR SETTING
A. Economic Setting
1.1   Haiti is one of the poorest countries in the world (US$250 per capita in 1994). More
than 70% of its 6.9 million population live below the poverty line. About 75% of Haiti's
population live in rural areas, but agricultural output has increased little since the seventies,
and production per capita has fallen steadily. Over the last three decades, output and
employment have shifted toward the urban sector; agriculture now accounts for less than
20% of GDP compared to 50% in the early 1950s. Migration from rural areas has
accelerated, and is propelling urban population growth to more than 4% a year. The center
of economic activity is Port-au-Prince, the capital city, with a population estimated at 1.6
million, increasing at a rate of about 8 % per year over the last ten years. Past transport
statistics show that about 75 % of all traffic originates in Port-au-Prince.
1.2   The dramatic deterioration of Haiti's economic and social conditions following the
political stalemate in September 1991, and the ensuing financial and trade embargo,
accentuated the downward economic and social trends of the 1980s. The decline in per
capita gross national product, recorded at 2% per year during the 1980 to 1991 period, has
worsened to around 10% per year since then, resulting in a GDP per capita of about US$250
and making Haiti by far the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. The Government,
therefore, faces the formidable challenge posed by debilitated institutions, strong
macroeconomic imbalances, dilapidated infrastructure, depleted productive assets, falling
social indicators and perverse poverty.
1.3   To address this economic and social situation, the Government of Haiti (GOH) has
developed a US$402 million emergency economic recovery program (EERP), with the
assistance of a Multilateral Joint Mission, aimed at undertaking prompt and concrete actions
in all sectors to respond to the current situation. In addition to specific actions in the
economic and social sectors, the program emphasizes introducing and implementing a new
philosophy of governance that would shift the government's role from operating productive
assets, directing industry and economic processes to that of monitoring, regulating, setting
policy and standards and creating enabling conditions for economic development. The
sustainability of the program's results would depend upon complementary medium and long
term investments and policy reform actions to be taken by the government. Restoring and
improving the countries infrastructure, currently a major bottleneck to any economic
development, is one of the priority actions.



-2-
B. The Transport Sector
1. Transport Infrastructure
1.4   Haiti's transport infrastructure is in generally deplorable state and will require a major
effort to rehabilitate and maintain it. The system, which consists of about 4,500 km of roads,
40 km of privately-owned railway for transporting sugarcane, two international ports, ten
cabotage ports and 40 mooring points, and two international airports and five domestic
airfields, has suffered from a decade of maintenance neglect. For example, less than 7% of
the main road network is in good condition, and most of the rural road network is in
extremely poor state. The Port-au-Prince streets are also characterized by acute traffic
congestion due to deteriorated infrastructure and poor traffic management, leading to high
vehicle operating costs and transit times. The system, moreover, provides inadequate access
to some important rural areas.
1.5   The development of the transport system over the last ten years was based on a
comprehensive Transport Master Plan (TMP) prepared in the late seventies, and was
financed in large part by external financing agencies on highly concessional terms. The least
cost solution proposed by the TMP, and implemented over the last decade, was to
concentrate capacity expansion for international traffic in Port-au-Prince and to develop local
and transit traffic through expansion and upgrading of the road network and coastal shipping
facilities. Consequently, substantial capacity expansion took place in the principal port and
international airport of Port-au-Prince; most coastal ports now have an adequate basic
infrastructure; and the road network was continuously upgraded and expanded. Because the
TMP was never updated nor its main assumptions closely monitored, substantial excess
capacity now exists in the port of Port-au-Prince and in the coastal shipping ports while
undercapacity is a major problem in the Port-au-Prince city streets.
2. Transport Operations
1.6   Transport operations are mostly handled by the private sector. Road transport
remains the dominant mode for domestic transport (about 80%), coastal shipping accounts for
18% and rail and air transport about 2%. The road vehicle fleet in circulation is around
50,000 to 55,000 vehicles, growing annually at about 7-8% before the economic embargo in
1992. Road indicators comparing Haiti to countries with similar characteristics shows that
vehicle fleet per km of road and 1,000 population is high because of the low purchase and
registration taxes on vehicles and the low road network density. Recent road traffic data
show that more than 80% of traffic occurs on the paved network, which is less than 20% of
the main road network, with the heaviest traffic concentration within and around Port-au-
Prince. Public transportation in Port-au-Prince is mostly provided by small vans or minibus
("tap-tap"). The only public transport company (CONATRA) is currently defunct.
1.7   Coastal shipping, with some 400 sailboats and 50 motorboats, accounts for about 18%
of domestic transport. Since the deregulation of secondary ports in 1987, some cabotage
ships are also handling international traffic diverted from the Port-au-Prince port because of
the high tariffs in the port of Port-au-Prince, the long delays in customs and administrative



- 3 -
procedures and the enhanced tax evasion possibilities in the secondary ports. An advantage of
this development is that secondary ports have become important economic centers for their
hinterland.
1.8   For international transport, sea and air transport are the dominant modes for freight
and passengers, respectively. International freight traffic, which grew at about 5 % per year
between 1975 and 1985, has been declining since then, while air transport, both passenger
and freight, continue to grow steadily at about 7% per year, except during the time of the
economic embargo.
1.9   Road traffic and public transportation in Port-au-Prince have increased in line with
population growth. It is estimated that about 1,800,000 trips occur daily, a great proportion
by foot. At the same time, motorized traffic has increased steadily, with volumes ranging
between 1,000 and 2,000 vehicles per hour, at peak time, along the main city streets. The
increase in demand has been compounded by the city's difficult topography, the opposing
locations of work, school and living centers, the complete lack of public transport policy and
enforcement of any basic traffic management measures.
3. Sector Policies
1.10 The Government's transport sector policy and strategy are outlined in a Policy Letter
sent to the Association by the Government (Annex 1). The following sections derive from
that outline.
1.11  The road transport market, dominated by the private sector, is competitive; the
Government only sets road-user charges, regulates safety and vehicle inspection, axle load
limits and passenger fares. Enforcement of the few road transport regulations is, however,
non-existent, except for passenger fares and for axle load control at the exits of cement and
wheat mills and at the port. Nevertheless, public transportation appears overall to meet and
adapt well to demand, even though the level of service is low and transport costs are high
because of the poor condition of streets and heavy congestion in Port-au-Prince.
1.12  Coastal shipping traffic is also presently totally unregulated. A draft maritime law,
and related safety and inspection regulations, produced in 1989 as part of the institutional
development under the ongoing Transport VII Project has not yet been enacted by the
Government, preventing the application of any basic safety rules for coastal shipping. The
new Government should give this priority in order to sustain the institutional improvements
achieved by the Maritime and Navigation Service of Haiti (SEMANAH). The Port and
Airport Authorities are autonomous agencies, setting their own tariff levels, under the
supervision of their supervisory ministries, Finance and Public Works.
4. Institutional Set-Up
1.13  The Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications (MTPTC) is
responsible for overall transport sector management (through its Directorate of Transport),
and has jurisdiction over all public transport agencies, except the National Port Authority



- 4 -
(APN), which is under the direct supervision of the Ministry of Finance and the Road
Vehicle Traffic Control Service (SCCV), which is a branch of the Police. MTPTC also
administers, plans and implements all road related works, maintenance, rehabilitation, and
new construction, through its Directorate of Transport (DDT) for inter-city roads, and
through its Directorate of Public Works (DTP) for city roads.
1.14  MTPTC's effectiveness has declined substantially over the last few years mainly
because: (i) its responsibilities are too wide or encompassing, in addition to those
abovementioned, supervising large public agencies such as power, water and
telecommunications; (ii) its responsibilities in the sectors under its jurisdiction are, in some
cases, unclear in relation to other agencies involved, e.g. its role vis a vis the municipalities
in city planning and provision of services; (iii) the Ministry has been giving priority to its
function as a direct executor of works and been neglecting the sector planning and regulatory
function; and (iii) the Ministry suffers from inadequate budget, low salaries, redundant
personnel, insufficient budget planning, work programming and financial control.
I.15  The Government, prior to September 1991, had started a major reorganization aiming
at strengthening the role of the regional departments in line with the new Constitution and at
reducing redundancy, closed down inefficient departments, reduced excess personnel and
tightened up financial and procurement procedures. The Government had also initiated a
comprehensive institutional review, with the help of experienced consultants, to: (i) better
define MTPTC's future role in the sectors that it covers; (ii) modernize its internal structure;
(iii) develop a plan of action to further reduce redundancy and improve salary policies,
financial controls, budget mechanisms and training; and (iv) shift the role of the Ministry
from an operator to a manager. MTPTC has presented a letter defining the broad objectives
of the reorganization and the future role of the Ministry. During negotiations, agreement
was reached on the broad objectives and on the detailed action plan and proposed timing to
implement the plan. Yearly monitoring of progress is included in the action plan.
5. Government Financing and Investment Priorities
1.16  The Government needs to substantially increase financing for the transport sector to
prevent it from becoming a bottleneck to economic development. The priorities in spending
should be on rehabilitating and maintaining the existing infrastructure, on improving the
management of all sector institutions, on increasing the role of the private sector in carrying
out maintenance, on preparing a transport master plan as a guide to future investments in
providing better access to rural areas and increasing street capacity in Port-au-Prince, and on
improving the regulatory framework and its enforcement in the sector.
1.17  The expansion and maintenance of the transport infrastructure have so far been
financed partly through external sources. Over the last seven years, the allocations for
transport have declined from about US$40 million per year to almost nothing during the past
three years. It is estimated that about US$70 million a year over the next five years would be
required to satisfy the abovementioned priorities. The exact amounts required, beyond the
requirements of the proposed five-year road program, will be determined by the proposed
TMP and Port-au-Prince Traffic Master Plan studies (para 2.22).



- 5 -
1.18 The Government's priorities derive from its economic recovery objectives, which
comprise: arresting further decline of the economy, reestablishing economic growth and the
private sector's confidence in the economy, and investing heavily in economic and social
infrastructure. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the TORs for the Transport
Master Plan and the Traffic Master Plan for Port-au-Prince. Agreement was also reached
that a broad transport policy framework and investment program will be prepared before
December 31, 1996, covering all transport modes. Finally, agreement was reached that any
sector investment exceeding US$5 million will include an economic rate of return of at least
12%, environmental analysis, and arrangements for future maintenance, and will be
discussed and agreed with IDB/IDA before implementation.
C. The Road Subsector
1.19  The sections below concentrate on the subjects and issues of the road subsector
relevant to the project's design and conditionality.
1. The Road Network
1.20 Haiti's road network, rather small compared to countries of similar characteristics, is
in very poor condition and needs extensive rehabilitation. The main inter-city road network
consists of about 590 km of national roads, 1375 km of departmental roads and 2580 km of
feeder roads. The network is in very poor condition due to the lack of maintenance over the
past years. Drainage structures have become clogged by earth and stones, due to widespread
erosion caused by the rapid deforestation in the country. Except for a few bridges that
require major rehabilitation or replacement (including important ones), existing bridge
structures and culverts are in reasonably good condition, in spite of the maintenance neglect.
1. Road Network Classification
(km)
Type       National Depart-  Rural   Total
ment
Paved          470       70      40     580
Gravel         120      675     700   1,495
Earth            -      630   1,840   2,470
Total          590    1,375   2,580   4,545
1.21  Most of the network will require rehabilitation before any recurrent maintenance can
be performed efficiently. The most critical and urgent repairs will be carried out under the
EERP; the next level of priority should be the paved network not repaired under the EERP,



- 6 -
since it carries about 80% of the traffic in the country (in vehicle-miles) although it
constitutes only about 20% of the total network, and the 150 km of gravel sections of Route
Nationale 3, which accounts for an additional 15% of the traffic.
1.22  The Port-au-Prince metropolitan area streets total over 600 km, of which about 200
km are paved. The streets are generally over 40 years old and in need of major repairs and
rehabilitation. Street deterioration in the city has been accelerated by heavy rainfall and an
inadequate drainage system. An IDB drainage project is improving the primary and
secondary drainage networks. The proposed project would finance the maintenance of part
of the tertiary drainage network (gutters). In addition, the city lacks proper passenger and
freight terminals and sidewalks. Heavy congestion exists on all arterials, especially on the
Carrefour Road, which provides the main exit to the South of the country. These latter
needs would, however, be best addressed through a comprehensive urban transport project.
2. Highway Administration, Maintenance and Planning
1.23  DDT is responsible for road and transport planning, engineering, construction,
maintenance and axle load controls on the inter-city network. DTP is responsible for, inter
alia, street planning and maintenance in Port-au-Prince and within the limits of secondary
towns. In general, most engineering and detailed design studies and construction supervision
are carried out by consultants under DDT and DTP's supervision. Large rehabilitation and
new construction works are carried out by private contractors; maintenance is mostly carried
out by force account. A pilot program of maintenance by the Community Action
Maintenance Program (CAMP), under which road sections are maintained under contract
with local communities, supervised by DDT's foremen, was successfully implemented in
1990 (para 1.29).
1.24 Both DDT and DTP should be reorganized to improve their internal efficiency and to
shift their role from carrying out maintenance works directly to managing, planning and
regulating the road subsector and managing the execution of maintenance by the private
sector and local communities. Both agencies suffer from all of MTPTC's problems outlined
in para 1. 14 above, such as lack of coordination, too wide responsibilities, poor financial
control, weak procurement and cumbersome payment procedures.
1.25  The most significant changes recommended by the consultants'institutional review
mentioned in para 1.15 for both DDT and DTP are:
(a)   to create a separate Central Roads Directorate, separate from the existing
Transport Directorate, to program road investments, manage the contracting of
works, allocate the road budget to the various activities and supervise studies
and works by the private sector, local communities and force account;
(b)   to assign the Transport Directorate to developing and coordinating sector
investment plans, formulating sector policies, monitoring the decentralized
agencies, such as APN and the National Civil Aviation Office (OFNAC) and
setting and overseeing the enforcement of the regulatory framework in the sector;



- 7 -
(c)   to reorganize the DTP into a Central Urban Directorate, with specific units
within the nine regional departments (see (d) below) and a special Urban
Department for Port-au-Prince. The Central Urban Directorate will keep
overall responsibility for regulations, planning and budget allocations of all
urban related works carried out by the Ministry, in close liaison with the
municipalities' needs. Like the Central Road Directorate, the Urban
Directorate will also keep control of all the regional programs (planning,
budget approval and supervision) and of all major works by contract. Work
execution by force account will be decentralized to the regional (and Port-au-
Prince) departments. Within this context, the road maintenance and
rehabilitation unit in Port-au-Prince will eventually be located in the Central
Urban Directorate, even though the maintenance program will be executed by
the Metropolitan Directorate;
(d)   to strengthen the nine regional departments, as well as a special Metropolitan
Directorate for Port-au-Prince. Initially, the central departments of the
Ministry will retain complete control over planning, regulations, construction
standards, and budget allocations for works; and the regional departments will
focus on work execution by force account and limited planning for works of
local and regional interest. The central departments will also be restructured
in line with the sectoral responsibilities of the Ministry.
1.26 The broad reorganization of the Ministry, along the above lines, will take at least two
years to implement. For the transitional period, the Government has established a
Coordinating Unit (CU) under the responsibility of the General Directorate, to manage the
implementation of the 1994-1998 road program. CU will be assisted by two small teams,
one each for the interurban and urban programs. All functions to support the programs,
including planning, supervision, fostering labor-intensive techniques, and programming
works by force account, will still be performed within the existing departments, but through
dedicated units reporting directly to department directors. Those units would eventually be
integrated within the new Central Road Directorate and the new Central Urban Directorate,
and the Metropolitan Directorate.
1.27 During negotiations, the Government confirmed that the Ministry will create by
December 31, 1996 a Central Roads Directorate for the intercity network, and the Central
Urban Directorate, including a Metropolitan Directorate Port-au-Prince; and that, until these
new arrangements are effective, the road program of the Ministry will be managed directly
by a Coordinating Unit under the key General Directorate. The Ministry has assigned
experienced engineers to head the road unit(s), and confirmed the staffing of the
Coordinating Unit, and the staffing of the teams and arrangements for planning, supervision,
etc. under the existing departments. The establishment of the Coordinating Unit and the
appointment of its staff will be a condition of effectiveness. Key responsible staff attended
the negotiations. Finally, agreement was reached that any change from these implementation
arrangements will be discussed with IDA before implementation.



- 8 -
3. Private Sector Participation in Roadworks
1.28  The conditions are ripe in Haiti to shift maintenance activities from force account to
the private sector and local communities. The capacity of the Permanent National Roads
Maintenance Service (SEPRRN's) has been drastically reduced and its equipment reassigned
or sold. By contrast, the implementation capacity of the private sector has grown and the
local communities have demonstrated their ability to perform good maintenance.
1.29  The private local construction sector has developed continuously over the last ten
years as revealed by a survey of that sector, originally undertaken in 1991 and updated
recently. Three major firms capable of carrying out major works and twenty eight small to
medium firms with capacity for periodic and routine maintenance have emerged over the past
decade. The performance of local contractors, tested under a pilot road maintenance project
under the IDA-financed Seventh Transport Project, demonstrated a generally satisfactory
response to bids and good work quality. Some minor problems with inefficiency, insufficient
equipment and bid preparation, noted both in the survey and during the actual
implementation, are expected to be resolved with technical assistance under the proposed
project.
1.30  Road maintenance by the communities started in the late-seventies under a USAID
financed program. Since then, the number of communities supported by SEPRRN under its
CAMP program has continuously increased, from 20 in the early eighties, maintaining about
84 km of roads, to about 55 under the recent pilot maintenance program, maintaining about
600 km. The performance of this program is hard to assess due to the continuous budget
constraints, which have prevented appropriate support by SEPRRN. In particular, quality
seems to have been low due to inadequate supervision, lack of transport facilities, delayed
deliveries of materials and hand tools, and long and cumbersome payment procedures. These
problems were reviewed by an International Labour Organization (ILO) expert in order to
incorporate the necessary remedial actions in the proposed project.
1.31  Lastly, the abovementioned pilot project also financed a program of city street paving
by interlocking concrete blocks (also called pavers or adoquins) over 7 km in Port-au-Prince.
This program has been very satisfactory. The number of interested firms has increased
drastically since the launching of the program, and the quality of construction has improved
steadily following assistance by an expert. Box I summarizes some experiences with labor-
intensive techniques undertaken in Haiti.
1.32  For maintenance by contract and through village communities on the scale proposed
under the project to succeed, some key prerequisites need to be fulfilled, including continuity
of work, prompt payment for work done and good supervision. The Government intends to
create these enabling conditions.
4. Road-User Revenues and Maintenance Expenditures
1.33 To ensure adequate maintenance funding, the Government should establish a funding
mechanism that will ensure reliable, adequate and timely maintenance funding. The
Government intends to study possible financing mechanisms for that purpose. Establishing a
financing mechanism should not require increasing user charges since these charges already



- 9 -
Box 1: Examples of Labor-htessive Acliii  in  Hi                                          ]
In view of the high unemployment level prevailing in Haiti, the new Government is putting a strong emphasis on promoting labor-intensive
techniques, community participation and development of local enterprises, whenever such activities are cost-effective. To meet these objectives,
new labor-intensive techniques are being tested by pilot operations financed under on-going credits. Examples are given below.
1. Street Paving by adoquins (interlocking concrete blocks)
This technique of street paving is utilized in many Latin American cities. It was introduced in Haiti in the seventies for the paving of private
roads, and in the early eighties for the paving of a few public roads. To test this technique on a larger scale, about 7 km of secondary streets
were contracted to local construction firms towards the end of 1989 under an on-going IDA credit. Despite some problems, the response was
highly positive. Technical supervision and guidance was provided by a Colombian expert, who organized seminars attended by most local firms.
A detailed economic analysis was also carried out as part of project preparation. Its main findings are given below.
While the investment cost of street paving by adoquins is higher than through asphalt concrete or double surface treatment, its total economic cost
is about the same due to lower maintenance requirements. That technique is also much less cosly in terms of foreign exchange and much more
labor-intensive. Comparative costs are given below. Its true economic value cannot, however, be fully evaluated as little research exists on its
long term impact on VOC. Sensitivity analysis also demonstrates that its relative economic value is highly sensitive to the price of cement.
Economic Costs                  Asphalt Double Surf.
('000 US$/km)        Adoquins Concrete  Treatment
Construction             212       233      204
Maintenance                5       22        32
Total           217      255       236
Market Price             286       277      243
% Foreign                50%       75%      75%
Men-day/km               580       10       8
2.  Maintenance by village communities.
Road maintenance by village communities is done in many developing countries where labor costs are low. That technique can provide similar
quality at slightly lower costs than mechanized maintenance when it is adequately organized and supervised. In Haiti, road construction and
maintenance by village communities started in the late seventies through a USAID-financed project. It was subsequently expanded through the
constitution of a labor-intensive unit within SEPRRN in 1985. Under IDA financing, about 55 village communities were involved in road
maintenance in 1990, covering about 600 km of gravel roads.
The experience in Haiti is difficult to assess due to the lack of adequate logistical and technical support offered by SEPRRN over the last few
years and problems arising from delayed payments. Thus, a major effort to restrt that activity is now required. A specialized consultant was
retained by the Government to prepare a feasible program as part of the proposed project. His conclusion is that community maintenance is still
highly attractive in Haiti, but that a major effort is required to improve support and supervision. For a slightly lower total cost per km,
maintenance by village communities would reduce the foreign exchange component of the works by about half, and would increase employment
by a ratio of about 4/1. At about I to 2 men/km/year under community maintenance, the proposed three-year program would create employment
for about 3,000 people, mostly in poor and remote rural areas.
3.  Pilot Labor-Intensive Program
At the request of the new Government, existing balances under on-going IDA infrastructure credits (amounting to about US$6 million) were
recently restructured to finance a priority program of labor-intensive works. That program is only starting. It would provide bridge financing
until the proposed project becomes effective, finance priority maintenance in Port-au-Prince and on the intercity network, and test new labor-
intensive techniques for subsequent replication during the main road program. A unit has now been created within the Ministry to coordinate
these activities, and priority sub-projects are being initiated. Cofinancing was obtained from the French Government to set up a revolving fund
for the program.
The labor component of the program is expected to amount to about 50% of the total cost based on international experience with the type of sub-
projects being presently identified, If this proved true, the total program could generate employment for more than 800,000 men-days of work,
or about 3,300 jobs on a full-year basis. Examples of sub-projects being identified are community road drainage maintenance operations, river
embarkment with gabions, construction of retaining walls against erosion in Port-au-Prince, clearing of the drainage network in selected areas,
and cleaning of street gutters by local community groups.



- 10 -
exceed, by more than twice, the funds needed for adequate periodic and routine maintenance
of the entire road network (para 1.34).
1.34 Before the 1992 economic embargo, road users had been contributing about US$40
million or about 20% of the Government revenues. More than 80% of those revenues was
from petroleum taxes; over 50% was from Port-au-Prince which accounted for about 70% of
petroleum fuel usage. Pump prices cover the full CIF price of petroleum, adequate margins
for the distributors and importers, and about 40% tax on both the gasoline and diesel
products. Import duties, sales taxes and registration fees on vehicles are not very high (about
30% of CIF price) compared to other Caribbean countries.
1.35 A road taxation study for Haiti in 1991 showed that road-user contributions should be
sufficient to cover all recurrent and periodic maintenance expenditures once the network is
rehabilitated to a serviceable level and provided tax collection efforts are improved. Hence,
there is little justification for introducing new taxes on a long-term basis, provided that user
charges are maintained all times at levels sufficient to at least cover road maintenance and
administration expenditures. The study also showed that about US$6.5 million annually were
being spent on maintenance and rehabilitation, of which an increasingly large proportion was
for unproductive personnel expenditures. Discounting these unproductive expenditures, the
real maintenance effort by the Government dropped to less than US$1 million per year over
the last two years; this is one of the lowest contributions per road-km of any developing
country. These actual allocations compare to about US$15 million that would be required to
maintain the network at a serviceable level. As a result, a substantial proportion of the
network has been lost and will need to be rehabilitated at a much higher cost, about US$ 100
million, based on the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM) results for the
network. An even higher amount is being lost in higher vehicle operating costs.
1.36 The maintenance funding problem has reached such a crisis stage in Haiti that a
special financing mechanism such as a road fund, normally undesirable from a macro
allocation point of view, has become indispensable. Box 2 summarizes the rationale,
principles and the mechanism for such a fund. The Government agrees in principle with
setting up a special financing mechanism within two years of the start of project
implementation, but wishes to have a detailed study to review its procedures, revenue
potential and compatibility with the overall fiscal program of the Government. The proposed
project includes such a study. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the TORs for
the study and on the scope and objectives of the financing mechanism; that the results of the
study, and the Government's position on that document, will be forwarded to IDA/IDB for
review and agreement before June 30, 1996; and that the mechanism will be created by
December 31, 1996. The start of the financing study is a condition of credit effectiveness.
To ensure reliable, adequate and timely funding of road maintenance operations, during
negotiations agreement was reached that road-user charges will at all times be sufficient to at
least cover road maintenance expenditures.
5. Past Bank Group Experience
1.37 The Bank Group has made one loan and seven IDA credits to Haiti in the transport
sector. The first operation in the sector was for a maintenance and rehabilitation project in



- 11 -
Box 2: Special Financing Mechanism
Rationale
The need to earmark specific road revenues to road maintenance and rehabilitation in Haiti stems from various considerations: (a) the
budget process is not working properly; the budget is merely financing personnel expenditures; extremely high losses are being incurred
from earlier than otherwise necessary reconstruction of unmaintained roads and from increased vehicle operating costs; (b) the level of
road funding in Haiti -- less than 0.5% of GDP -- is one of the lowest in the developing world; in addition, the amount of deferred
maintenance to put the network back to a normal level is substantial; this may require a temporary surcharge on the road users; and (c)
the road user charges, mostly the petroleum taxes, are used to finance general expenditures; there is therefore little relation between what
the road users are paying and the service they receive; and (d) the efficiency of the road departments is very weak; there is a need
improve accountability, especially when a major new program is being launched.
Principles
The earmarking process is not only intended to increase revenues for maintenance; it is also a means to improve the Government
accountability and efficiency to deliver appropriate services with what the users are paying. To that end, it will be crucial to (a) establish
a close link between the allocations to the road fund and the annual road programs performed; (b) launch the efforts on the road fund and
road maintenance in parallel; (c) initiate a publicity campaign on the maintenance effort; and (d) establish an integrated accounting system
between revenues and expenditures in order to show to the road users that they are getting value for money. This should be
accomplished through the creation of a simple system, whereby road revenues and expenditures are reviewed on an annual basis by one
entity -- the Road Fund Commission-- and the results and programs are published for general public consumption.
Mechanisms
The MTPTC will develop a multi-year road maintenance program and cost it for the approval of the Ministries of Finance and Planning.
The Government will enact a law establishing the mechanism and allocating the necessary amount of road-user charge receipt directly to
the fund. A National Road Fund Commission, with representatives from road users, Government and contractors and consultants, as
non-voting members, will be established to oversee channeling the fees into the fund on an automatic basis, overseeing the use of the
fund vis a vis the agreed annual maintenance program, and monitoring the appropriate accounting of revenues and expenditures. The
preparation of annual road programs and efficiency indicators and the creation of a specialized Road Department are efforts to improve
such accountability.
On the revenue side, efforts should be made to differentiate between fixed and variable charges in relation to the costs borne by the
users, but in a simple manner in relation to the administrative capacity of the Government. In Haiti, where traffic is light, the share of
fixed costs, independent of the road use, is large. These costs could be recovered through license fees, administered through dedicated
offices, and considered as "the right to use the road network". A road taxation analysis has clearly demonstrated the high amount of
evasion presently existing on vehicle imports, and the relatively low amount of registration and license fees. An added advantage of
reviewing those fees is that various levels could be set up depending on other objectives, such as distributive and congestion aspects, and
additional fees could be included in relation to road deterioration, i.e. an annual axle-load fee. The need for a surcharge, in addition to
better collection efforts, could also be justified on a temporary basis in view of the large effort needed to cover the backlog of
maintenance. Variable charges could be recovered through the earmarking of a portion of the transport petroleum taxes, i.e. possibly
corresponding to the present level of recurrent expenditures in the initial stages. These measures would be accompanied by efficiency
measures within the road departments, to make sure that the maintenance programs presented would be net of the redundant personnel
presently existing in the road department.
Whatever system is used, however, the first priority in Haiti should be to set up (i) the most simple administrative system initially, (ii)
clear accountability, such as through close monitoring and regular external audits, and (iii) close integration within the broad fiscal
program of the Government.
1956. The early projects concentrated on rehabilitation and/or upgrading of main roads,
principally the Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien road (the Northern Highway), and rehabilitation
of a number of bridges. In general, disputes occurred between the Government and IDA on
the standards applied, as traffic grew more rapidly than forecast. This involved the need to



- 12 -
reconstruct or strengthen certain sections of the roads in follow-on projects. Also, axle load
controls were introduced to reduce road deterioration caused by overloaded trucks. To
support the TMP completed in 1978, and starting with the Fifth Transport project, IDA-
financed projects included coastal shipping components in addition to specific road and
bridge rehabilitation programs and progressively emphasized institution building, planning,
and coordination with other donor agencies, within the framework of five-year investment
plans.
1.38 The Sixth Highway Project (Credit 1220 HA, US$14 million) approved in 1982 and
recently completed, included financing for: (i) road maintenance equipment; (ii) program of
axle-load control; (iii) rehabilitation of bridges and of 100 km of the Northern Highway, and
(iv) technical assistance and studies. The Seventh Transport project (Credit 1756 HA,
US$20 million), approved in 1986 and to be completed by June 30, 1996, aimed at
complementing these activities, through financing for: (i) phase II of the bridge rehabilitation
program; (ii) completion of rehabilitation on the Northern Highway; and (iii) technical
assistance, facilities and studies for coastal shipping and secondary ports. Both projects
aimed at complementing interventions from other donors (mostly IDB on primary roads, and
USAID on road maintenance), and focused on institution building for transport planning and
sector policies.
1.39  The recently completed PCR on the Sixth Highway Project concludes that few of the
institution-building objectives of the successive IDA efforts are likely to be met on a
sustainable basis due to the political instability which has prevailed in Haiti over the last few
years. Another major issue raised which affected the project achievements was the continued
lack of counterpart funding throughout project implementation. In general, the PCR
concludes that, in light of the past experience and the present situation, any new project in
the sector should be based on: (i) simple project objectives and design; (ii) increased focus
on institutional building, but within a close review of the Ministry's future role in road
maintenance activities; (c) integration of any project within a realistic overall program, in
line with financing constraints; and (iii) flexible project design, coupled with tight
supervision, to adapt the project to changing circumstances. The proposed project was
designed along those lines.
1.40  In addition to those transport projects, funds were also reallocated in 1989 under an
Urban Development project (Cr. 1338/SFIHA) (approved in 1983 and completed in 1991) to
finance a pilot road maintenance program using local contractors and village communities.
Under that program, about US$4.5 million were allocated for road rehabilitation by local
contractors on the intercity network; about US$600,000 was spent on community
maintenance; and about US$2.5 million was used for street paving in adoquins in Port-au-
Prince. In addition, some funds were used for critical repairs of maintenance equipment and
for project preparation activities. That pilot program was implemented satisfactorily. It has
provided useful insights on problems and issues, which are being incorporated in the design
of the proposed project. Following the 1990 national elections, the current administration
requested IDA to continue that program to provide bridge financing until the new project
becomes effective and to focus it on labor-intensive techniques in view of the high



- 13 -
unemployment prevailing in the country. That request was accepted, and various labor-
intensive sub-projects are presently being prepared for financing.
1.41  The proposed project is ambitious as it aims to support a major shift in maintenance
planning and work execution, as well as a major reorientation of the Ministry's role. This
shift is, however, timely in the context of Haiti. The major features of the proposed project
also take into account the experience accumulated during the execution of the previous IDA
projects and of the pilot program. In particular, the following features are worth
highlighting:
(a)   The proposed project is designed to support the Ministry's overall maintenance
program and to provide a framework for donor coordination within an
integrated approach. It is also flexible, as it will be broken down into annual
work plans, to be approved also on an annual basis;
(b)   The proposed approach seeks to address the maintenance funding issue on a
global perspective, throughi the creation of a road fund and the development of
a local lobby for maintenance, rather than through traditional covenants and
intemlittent international pressure;
(c)    The proposed shift in the Ministry's role from work execution to planning and
regulation functions, the proposed creation of integrated road departments and
the proposed increased reliance on the private sector and local communities for
work executionl are in line with broad international experience;
(d)   The proposed project aims also to integrate closely the specific programs being
financed withini a major institution-building effort;
(e)    Project components are being tested through a pilot operation and detailed
studies of that experience and specific project features, for example audit
requii-ements, draw on past experience; and
(f)    Finally, annual maintenlance plans approvals will be linked to progress on a
well defined action plan and to actual implementation of the works under the
previous year plan. This will not only provide the flexibility required in the
present context of Haiti, but also much closer supervision of key program
parameters than through standard covenants.
H. THE PROJECT
A. Background
2.1   The proposed project was identified in 1989 during the supervision of the Seventh
Transport Project and was prompted by the collapse of road maintenance activities due to the
drastic reductions in funding. Towards the end of 1989, the Government approached IDA



- 14 -
to: (i) reallocate funds under an ongoing Urban Project (Cr 1338), to finance priority road
maintenance activities over its FY1989/90; and (ii) prepare a road maintenance and
rehabilitation project to cover maintenance requirements over the following three years.
Technical project preparation took place over 1990 during a transitional period in
Government. The project design was subsequently adjusted in early 1991 to reflect the
priorities of the new Government, elected in December 1990. It was agreed that the project
would be designed as an integral part of the Ministry's road program and that it would be
integrated within a comprehensive review of the Ministry's institutional structure. A Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$1.0 million was provided under the Project for the
preparation of detailed engineering and bidding documents for the first year rehabilitation
works. The Government stopped the recruitment of consultants to carry out these activities
when IDA suspended disbursements to Haiti. MTPTC has recommenced the process. The
project was first appraised in June 1991, however, following the above-mentioned suspension
of IDA's activities, further processing was stopped. A joint IDA/IDB mission visited Haiti
in November 1994 to open discussions with the Government on reviving the project. The
project was reappraised in January 1995. Negotiations took place in Port-au-Prince
immediately after project appraisal in January 1995.
B. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.2   For the next twelve to eighteen months, IDA  s assistance strategy for Haiti aims to
support the Government in: (i) providing basic goods and services to meet urgent needs; (ii)
rehabilitating priority social and economic infrastructure; (iii) establishing the context for an
adequate macroeconomic and incentive framework; (iv) initiating medium-term reforms with
emphasis on public-sector modernization, poverty alleviation and environmental restoration;
and (v) coordinating the efforts of the international donor community to ensure adequate
financing with an appropriate focus on Haiti's priority needs.
2.3   To implement this strategy and in support of the Government's EERP, IDA is: (i)
providing financing for critical imports through an Emergency Economic Recovery Credit of
SDR26.8 million (US$40 million) approved by the Board on December 20, 1994 (co-
financed with the IDB); (ii) reactivating its ongoing portfolio, which comprises over US$104
million of undisbursed funds in six projects (five ongoing projects are in the process of
resuming implementation; a sixth is being reviewed at this time); (iii) pursuing an intensive
policy dialogue and beginning preparation of a proposed Structural Adjustment Credit,
scheduled for FY96; (iv) leading the preparation of a comprehensive Poverty Assessment for
Haiti and initiating development of poverty-related investment lending operations; and (v)
coordinating donor support for Haiti, through the Consultative Group and other mechanisms.
Work is also under way on a Country Assistance Strategy, expected to be presented to the
Board early in FY96.
2.4     The project is consistent with the assistance strategy framework outlined above.
The emphasis in most future IDA investment lending will be on human resources, rural
development and related environmental issues, with the IDB playing a relatively greater role
in infrastructure development. IDA's cofinancing of this operation is justified as part of a
multi-donor effort to support and provide a basis for sustaining the economic and social



- 15 -
improvements expected from the economic recovery program by: (i) rehabilitating transport
infrastructure facilities and arresting their continued decline which would otherwise be a
major bottleneck for economic recovery; (ii) helping to modernize and improve the
Government's efficiency through shifting its role from operator and manager to regulator in
the roads sub-sector; and (iii) helping to alleviate poverty by providing employment through
contracting out and community participation in executing road works under the project.
C. Project Objectives
2.5   The project's objectives are to: (i) assist the Government in implementing a
comprehensive five-year road maintenance and rehabilitation program on the intercity road
network and in Port-au-Prince; (ii) strengthen road sub-sector management within a
comprehensive restructuring program of the Ministry; (iii) foster private sector and
community participation in road works; and (iv) assist the Government in increasing its
financing of road maintenance over time.
D. Project Description
2.6   The project, which would finance MTPTC's five-year road program, would comprise:
(i) bridge and road rehabilitation works to be contracted out (US$77.3 million); (ii) periodic
and routine maintenance works to be carried out by local firms, and local communities and
MTPTC force account, where necessary (US$25 million); (iii) limited procurement of traffic
control and road maintenance equipment and tools (US$2.2 million); and (iv) an institutional
strengthening component (US$17.3 million) aimed at: (i) restructuring the MTPTC;
(ii) improving transport planning and sector policy; (iii) training MTPTC staff to prepare
projects for private sector implementation and to manage contracts; and (iv) preparing studies
aimed at resolving sector/sub-sector issues. The project would also refinance a PPF advance
granted in early 1991 (US$0.8 million), and would include a provision for financial charges
on the IDB credit, in line with that agency's practice (US$2.4 million).
1. Program and Project Design
2.7   The original five-year road program of the Ministry was essentially prepared by the
Ministry's staff supported by individual specialized consultants. The interurban program was
based on a detailed road condition inventory and a traffic survey on all main roads, both
undertaken in 1990. All the road sections were ranked according to their economic return on
the basis of the HDM model. Deflection studies were carried out on the whole paved
network. Yearly program budgets were devised on the basis of the actual implementation
experience under a pilot project and the amount of financing expected to be available.
Implementation of the program was frozen following the economic embargo and, since no
maintenance took place thereafter, the entire network deteriorated rapidly. The current road
program reflects these developments.
2.8   The Port-au-Prince urban road program was derived from a five-year priority urban
road program prepared by consultants. That program was subsequently modified to focus on
the main trafficked roads of the city and to take into account other major infrastructure



- 16 -
programs, in particular a major drainage project financed by IDB and a water distribution
project with CAMEP financed by IDA and CCCE (France). Coordination of the urban road
program with those projects and the funds expected provided the main basis for the design
and scope of the yearly programs. A detailed road condition inventory, deflection
measurements and traffic counts were also undertaken on all the main roads to ascertain the
priority of the selected network to be rehabilitated.
2.9   The above road and city street rehabilitation programs were complemented by the
preparation of annual maintenance programs, broken down explicitly among: (i) works to be
carried out by contract; (ii) works to be subcontracted to local communities; and (iii) works
to be carried out by force account. This latter category was limited to the capacity needed in
the future to undertake emergency works and keep a minimum presence in the regions.
2.10  The proposed program will be essentially the Ministry's overall road program. Other
complementary, but small, components under discussion also include: (i) CCCE support to
the development of small local contractors; (ii) FAC (France) technical assistance support to
the Laboratoire National (LNBTP); (iii) possible EU involvement in road rehabilitation in the
Plateau Central region; and (iv) IDB financed technical assistance to prepare a master traffic
plan for the city of Port-au-Prince.
2.11 The five-year road program is mostly indicative, as it will need to be rolled over each
year in line with agreed priorities, financing constraints and actual implementation
performance. Thus, annual planning exercises, linked to the Government's fiscal years, will
be performed based on updated annual traffic surveys and road condition inventories.
2.12 The proposed project will finance MTPITC's five-year road program. The first-year
road program to be financed by the project, as well as the magnitude and annual phasing of
the overall program, were agreed upon during negotiations. Detailed design studies on the
first year program are presently underway. Approval of the maintenance and rehabilitation
programs for the future years will be done annually following completion of preparation of
each yearly program, a review of implementation experience of the previous year's program,
and satisfactory progress on agreed actions (Box 3). The proposed project also includes
specific components to support implementation of the whole road maintenance effort and the
institutional restructuring program of the Ministry. Details on the program and the project
are given below.
2. Components
Bridge and Road Rehabilitation Program (US$77.3 million)
2.13 The road rehabilitation program would include: (i) about 250 km of intercity roads
(about US$63 million); and (ii) 31 km of Port-au-Prince streets (about US$14 million).
The intercity roads would comprise about 170 km of paved roads and about 80 km of
unpaved roads. The paved roads would be the most deteriorated sections of National Roads
1, 2 and 3, roads which constitute the basic skeleton of the network. The works include
various levels of rehabilitation at costs ranging between $100,000 to US$500,000 per km for



- 17 -
rehabilitation works on the paved roads and about US$75,000 per km on the gravel roads.
The program would be reviewed annually according to a revised prioritization of intercity
roads that would take into account continuing road deterioration or traffic growth.
2.14  The Port-au-Prince streets would include about 24 km of asphalt concrete roads and
about 17 km in adoquins. The average base rehabilitation cost per km is about US$440,000
including the rehabilitation cost of water pipes and drainage.
2.15  The program of works would be reviewed annually according to: (i) the level of
pavement deterioration on the sections not yet rehabilitated; and (ii) the actual
implementation schedule of the drainage and the water supply projects. The latter is likely to
be a major constraint in programming the works throughout the project life because the road
rehabilitation works would not start before drainage works and water pipe replacements are
completed. All subprojects will be subjected to appropriate environmental analysis (see
paras. 4.7 to 4.11). The list of subprojects to be rehabilitated during the first years of the
project is provided in Annex 2.
Road Maintenance Program (US$25 million)
2.16  The maintenance program for the intercity road network for the next three years,
estimated at about US$19 million equivalent, or about US$6.3 million per year, would, in
addition to right-of-way routine maintenance, include resealing or patching on the paved
network, grading and spot regravelling on the gravel roads, and drainage works and
replacement of culverts when required. The average cost of the first year program amounts
to US$3,500 per km.
2.17  The intercity maintenance program would cover about 2,000 km of roads, and would
be divided into three components as follows: (a) about 1,000 km of roads to be maintained
by contract with private firms, under six sections totaling about 150-170 km each; that
component would cover the whole paved network as well as the rehabilitated sections of the
gravel road network; (b) about 750 km to be maintained by local communities; that program
would focus mostly on secondary roads with low traffic; community involvement would be
progressive throughout the three years of the program, based on an agreed work schedule in
each region covered by the program; and (c) about 250 km will be maintained by force
account. That force account program was determined based on the MTPTC's new
maintenance strategy and existing capacity. It will be carried out by the regional departments
of MTPTC under quasi-contracts defining the works budgets required and the type of works
to be performed.
2.18  The routine maintenance program in Port-au-Prince comprises both periodic and
routine maintenance. Periodic maintenance is contemplated as approximately 17 km of urban
streets. Routine maintenance would cover about 150 km of bituminous-surfaced streets, of
which about 80% (120 km) will be maintained under contract by local firms. The other 30
km of paved roads would be maintained by force account. Small contracts will also be
awarded, on a pilot basis, for the repair of gullies and sidewalks on selected sections not
covered by the rehabilitation program. In addition to road maintenance per se, a regular



- 18 -
program for clearing the tertiary drainage network by neighborhood communities will be
introduced on a progressive basis. In view of the prevailing drainage and garbage collection
problems in Port-au-Prince, one of the highest priorities to arrest street deterioration would
be to prevent garbage, mud and stones from plugging the drainage network. That program,
presently being tested in the labor-intensive program financed under on-going credits, would
be incorporated into the maintenance program. The list of road sections to be maintained
under each of the component listed in paras. 2.16 and 2.18 and the corresponding detailed
budgets required are available in the project file. A list of subprojects to be maintained
during the first years of the project is provided in Annex 2.
Traffic Control and Maintenance Equipment and Tools (US$2.7 million)
2.19  The project would fund the repair of existing traffic signals and the acquisition of
approximately 20 new traffic signals for Port-au-Prince (US$0.7 million) in intersections to
be identified in the Traffic Master Plan for Port-au-Prince (para. 2.22). Additionally, the
project would provide only limited equipment, mostly minor tools, and a very small number
of key heavy maintenance equipment for a total amount of about US$1.5 million, mostly to:
(i) assist maintenance works by the local communities; (ii) provide a minimum pool of
equipment to support the maintenance program by force account and provide a small in-house
capacity for emergency interventions in the regional departments; (iii) repair the
telecommunications network of the Ministry; and (iv) provide the logistical support for the
new planning and supervision units.
Institutional Strengthening Program (US$17.3 million)
2.20 The proposed Technical Assistance program for the road departments, detailed in
Annex 3, would amount to about US$9 million. The proposed approach would be:
(i) recruit long-term consultants to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry in all key project
and program areas; and (ii) rely on expatriate services for specialized inputs and training
through short-term visits throughout the project implementation period. Studies, detailed
engineering and supervision for major works would also be contracted. To the extent
possible, the expatriate consultant team would be recruited through a twinning arrangement
whereby a well-established road department of a French-speaking developed country would
provide a long-term assistance to the new road department and on-the-job training to its
technicians. Under this arrangement, the salaries of technical experts will be paid by their
country of origin while their housing, travel and subsistence allowances would be paid by the
Project. For example, three agencies have shown their interest in providing these services;
they include the road departments of the Province of Quebec, Canada, Walloie of Belgium
and Drone of France. If this approach is not practicable, the Government would recruit
individual consultants.
2.21   In addition to the above twinning arrangements, the project would include two major
training elements (Annex 3, Page 17): (i) overseas training which includes attendance at
courses, workshops, conferences and seminars and out of country technical visits; the project
would fund travel, subsistence and course inscription fees; and (ii) domestic training which
includes courses, workshops, conferences organized by MTPTC with local or expatriate



- 19 -
instructors; the project would fund organization costs and expatriate fees, travel and
subsistence. The following areas of training would be emphasized (Annex 3): (i) highway
management geared to road authority-type organization; (ii) road maintenance contract
management; (iii) pavement management; (iv) maintenance management; (v) transportation
planning/economics; (vi) HDM; (vii) highway safety; (viii) environment and highways; (ix)
effective utilization of computers; and (x) training trainers.
2.22  Specific studies would cover: (i) a Traffic Master Plan for Port-au-Prince (US$0.9
million) which would include a diagnostic study of traffic patterns, a review of urban traffic
policy options and pre-feasibility studies on the major investments required, as a basis for a
possible Urban Transport Project; (ii) implementing Road Maintenance Financing Mechanism
(US$0.3 million) following the completion of the on-going study; (iii) a TMP to strengthen
sector policies and the regulatory framework in all transport modes (US$0.8 million); (iv)
identifying erosion and sedimentation problems and corrective actions; and (v) a small
technical assistance to support the promotion of the local construction sector and the
establishment of an equipment rental scheme (US$100,000). TORs for these studies are
included in Annex 3.
2.23  The project would support the MTPTC's institutional restructuring program in
priority areas. The Ministry confirmed its commitment to implement the restructuring
program during negotiations.
2.24  Procurement procedures in the Ministry are very weak, resulting in substantial delays,
penalties and increased contract costs. The project would finance assistance to improve the
Ministry's procurement system and procedures and to assist directly in preparing bidding
documents, contracting consultants, contractors and suppliers (US$1.4 million). This
component will be executed by a specialized procurement firm. The institutional review has
identified major deficiencies in budgeting, financial and accounting procedures. The project
will also assist MTPTC to recruit a professional external accountant to monitor the project
expenditures, and a consulting firm to streamline and modernize the whole financial and
budget system (US$1 million). Finally, the project will support the establishment of an
environmental unit within the Ministry, and will finance an environmental review and action
plan in selected watershed areas where erosion is threatening the integrity of road
investments (US$800,000). Details on this component are also included in Annex 3.
3. Project Costs and Financing Plan
2.25  The project is estimated to cost US$125 million equivalent. A summary Project Cost
Table and Financing plan are presented below. The cost estimates are based on preliminary
engineering data and a detailed unit cost analysis carried out by a specialized firm in 1991.
They were updated at appraisal. Physical contingencies amount to about 10% of the total
costs on civil works. On the Port-au-Prince network, the base costs include removal and
replacement of water pipes, in line with a study carried out by CAMEP and reviewed during
appraisal. Price contingencies follow Bank Group price escalation estimates. Costs were
converted at the prevailing market rate for foreign exchange (US$1 = G14.00). The costs
are net of taxes.



- 20 -
HAITI
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABIUTATION PROJECT
SUMMARY COST TABLE AND FINANCING PLAN
(USS Million)
Toal Costs                  Total Flnanr               IDA
PROJECT COMPONENTS                        Local   Foreign   Total    IDA      IDB    Other | GOH   share(%)
1.  CIVIL WORKS
A Iner-it Network                           29        527   Z750       =Z      25.1    2         2^l   36
Rehubibtlon ard Priodic Maintenance    26.33    39.50    65.83    24.83    21.00   20.00    0.00
Com aunity Mwb Dce                      1.31     1.99     3.30    2.00     0.75    0.00      0.55
Rotie Maitnmc by Conrac                 1.48  2. 6        4.14    0.55     3.44    0.00     0.15
Rain Martnenc by Force Accot            0.68     1.12     1.80    0.00     0.00    0.00      1.60
B. Brkkis Proaram                            18       21      510      n 00     0        4.6 Q            0
Rehabilition and Replacent             1.11     1.89     3.00    0.00     0.00    3.00     0.00
Maintenance                             0.78     1.32     2.10    0.00     0.00     1.60     0.50
C. Urban Network (Poxt-au-Pnnce                      i  15I 16 86     6        91       Q.M     1.0    40
RehabWtalormand Periodk Mairtnance      4.53     7.40    11.93    5.32     6.61     0.00    0.00
Labor Intbrs Works                      1.18     2.02     3.20     1.00    2.00    0.00     0.20
Routine Maiteace by Conrbact            0.42     0.71     1.13    0.43     0.50    0.00     0.20
Routine Maitnance by Force Accoint      0.22     0.38     0.60    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.60
Total CIvU Works                            38.04    69.99    97.03    34.14    34.30   24.60    4.00    35
II.  EQUIPMENT
Road Maabtnwce Equipmnt                 0.08     1.43     1.50     1.00    0.50    0.00     0.00
Trafti Control Equpmnt                  0.00     0.70     0.70    0.70     0.00    0.00      0.00
Total Equipmnt                               0.08     2.13     2.20    1.70     0.50    0.00     0.00   n7
IlIl. T.AJSTUDIESITRAINING &
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
TA - InstituionlStrengthenng            2.11     5.99     8.10    4.40     3.70    0.00      0.00
Engineering Design                      0.52     1.48     2.00    1.00     1.00    0.00     0.00
Works Supwvuon                          1.30     3.70     5.00    2.50     2.50    0.00      0.00
Works AdminisrIon                       0.30     0.85     1.15    0.00     0.50    0.00      0.65
Trahng                                  0.29     0.81     1.10    0.20     0.50    0.40     0.00
Totl Insitutonal Support                     4.11    12.84    17.35    3.10     8.20    0A.      0.66    47
Total Basic Prolect Costs (1+11+111)        4262    736   116.58    44    43.001   250           46      38
ContingencIes                                1.89     3.37    5.26     5.26     0.00    0.00     0.00
IV.  OTHER
PPF Refinancing                         0.00     0.80    0.80     0.80     0.00    0.00     0.00
IDB FirncingCosts                       0.00     1.55     1.55    0.00     1.55    0.00     0.00
CIedk Cofwision                         0.00     0.35    0.35     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.35
FIV                                     0.00     0.45    0.45     0.00     0.45    0.00     0.00
Total Othr                                   0.00     3.15    3.15     0.80     2.00    0.00     0.35
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         44.52    80.47   126.00    60.00    46.00   26.00    1.00    40
Other KFW: Bridge and Training Program (US$5.0 million)
European Union: Intercity Network Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance (US$20.0 million)



- 21 -
2.26 The financing for the Project would be: US$45 million from IDB; US$50 million
from IDA; US$20 million from the EU; US$5 million from the KFW; and US$5 million
from the Govermnent.
2.27 The Government's contribution to the program, US$5 million equivalent, would
increase from about US$0.5 million in 1995 to about US$1.5 million in 1999.
2.28 During negotiations, the Government agreed to: (a) finance US$5 million equivalent
during the five-year program; and (b) set up a Road Maintenance Financing Mechanism,
under procedures satisfactory to IDA, before December 31, 1996, with the objective of
generating about US$2 million by (the Government's) FY96/97 and US$3 million by
FY97/98 and thereafter for the network.
2.29 External agencies will mostly finance works by contract, and the Government all the
works by force account. In view of the severe financial constraints of the Government, the
proposed project includes financing of part of the local costs (excluding wages), including
part of the routine maintenance needs of the road network on a declining basis. Such
financing in the initial stages is needed to: (i) restart the maintenance effort by the
Government; and (ii) support the introduction of new labor-intensive techniques and the
promotion of maintenance work by small contractors and local communities.
2.30  The proposed sector approach in the project aims at providing a flexible framework to
deal with uncertainties in MTPTC's absorptive capacity and availability of counterpart funds.
In particular, approval of each yearly rehabilitation program will be linked to the actual
implementation performance of the previous year's program in order to adapt MTPTC's
project implementation to actual capacity. The broad action program and the set of approval
conditionalities proposed for each yearly program is given in Box 3 below.
4. Action Plan
2.31  The proposed action plan was discussed in detail during project appraisal and
confirmed during negotiations. In addition, agreement was reached that: (i) the road
programs will define clearly the amount of road works to be carried out by private firms,
communities and small contractors, and by force account, based on actual implementation
performance of each group; and (ii) the proposed preliminary yearly programs and the status
of the action plan will be presented to IDA before the annual review of the project to be held
each July and firmed up at the time of budget preparation, September of each year at the
latest. Satisfactory allocation of the agreed annual budgets, will be a condition for approving
the following year's program. This would apply to approvals of all new road rehabilitation
works contracts, but would exclude recurrent maintenance by communities and contractors,
technical assistance and studies.



- 22 -
Box 3 - Action Plan
Conditions for Approval of the Annual Rehabilitation Progras
First Year (06f95)                                    Second Year (06t96)                        Third Year (06/97)
Road Progrtm
- Agreement on 5-year road program for intercity and Port-au-  - Revised 5-year road programs based on        - Same as for year 2.
Prince networks.                                              updated traffic and inventory studies.
- Detailed engineering studies completed on the FY95/96       - Progress on implementation of previous year
program.                                                      program.
- Economicjustification of each road with ERR > 12%           - Completion of detailed engineering studies on
- Acceptable environmental impact or mitigation for each road   the following year program.
- Economic justification of each road with ERR
> 12%.
Rertruturing Plan of Road Maintenance Activities
- Agreement on the eventual set-up of a Road Directorate for  - Establishment of the Road Directorate and of    - Review of progress and
the intercity network and of an integrated road maintenance   the Urban Road Unit for Port-au-Prince.         adjustments as required. Road
unit for Port-au-Prince, and on detailed transitory         - Progress on appointment of key staff and        units to be operational with
arrangements.                                                 consultants with the two Road units to be       minimnum outside support.
- Appointment of staff in key positions: new Directorate and/or  fully operational.
Transitory Unit; Planning & Budget; Supervision; Labor      - Progress on the implementation of the broad
Intensive Unit; and Finances.                                 restructuring program of MTPTC.
- Agreement on the action plan for the restructuring of MTPTC  - Exchange views on the implementation of
and on the decentralization program of road functions.        MTPTC's decentralization program.
Financing and Budget
- Works budget of US$0.5 milhon equivalent for intercity roads    - Budget of US$2.0 million equivalent for   - Implementation of the Road
for Port-au-Prince urban roads, streets maintenance.          intercity maintenance, and for Port-au-Prince   Maintenance Financing
- Agreement on TORs and action plan on the establishment of a    urban street maintenance.                       Mechanism including allocation of
Road Maintenance Financing Mechanism.                      - Detailed arrangements as required to establish   USS3.0 million equivalent for
the Road Maintenance Financing Mechanism       intercity maintenance, and for
by December31, 1996.                            street maintenance in Port-au-
Prince.
Sector Policy Framework
- Agreement on the restructuring of the Directorate of        - Establishment of the new Directorate of       - Satisfactory progress on
Transport                                                     Transport.                                      restructuring program of the
- Agreement on the TORs for:                                  - Presentation of a preliminary 5-year             Transport Directorate.
- Transport Master Plan.                                     Transport Sector investment program and of a    - Review of the final five-year
- Master Traffic Plan Port-au-Prince.                        Transport policy framework paper.               Transport Investment program.
and imnplementation of sector
policy recommendations based on
the traffic and transport studies.
Project Arrangements
Agreement on detailed arrangements regarding:                 - Satisfactory progress on procurement, budget.    - Same.
- recruitment of extemal accountants;                          fiunancial and accounting procedures.
- audit, procurement, reporting. and payment                 - Receipt of audit report.
procedures; and                                           - Satisfactory compliance with all obligations,
- TA program.                                                  particularly audits and receipt of progress and
works supervision reports.
- Monitoring of payment procedures (less than
I month).



- 23 -
m. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Execution
3.1   Implementation of the project is expected to take six years starting May 1995.
MTPTC will be responsible for carrying out the project through: (i) its Directorate of Roads
for the intercity road component; (ii) its Central Urban Directorate for the Port-au-Prince
component; and (iii) its Directorate of Transport for the transport studies. A small unit to
coordinate all foreign financed projects will also be created under the Director General.
Until this new organization is ratified, by December 31, 1995, the project will be managed
directly by a Coordinating Unit attached directly to the Directorate General and two units in
charge of each road program (inter-urban and Port-au-Prince)(see also para. 1.26 and Annex 4).
3.2   The subprojects to be implemented during 1995 were agreed at negotiations. The
subprojects to be executed each year after 1995 would be selected by September 30 of the
year preceding the year of implementation based upon economic, technical, financial and
environmental criteria satisfactory to the Association as well as on forecasts on MTPTC's
implementation capacity based on the previous year's performance. All subprojects selected
for implementation would have an economic rate of return (ERR) of at least 12%. Annual
review meetings would be held in July of each year to review implementation progress and
agree on corrective actions. All rehabilitation works and about 80% of maintenance would
be carried out by contracts with private enterprises and local communities and the remaining
20% of maintenance by force account under quasi-contracts with MTPITC's regional
departments. A consulting team would assist the Ministry's personnel in supervising all
maintenance works; supervision of rehabilitation works would be contracted out. Because of
the weak implementation capacity of MTPTC, the project provides also for short-term
expatriate services to provide specialized assistance, as needed, during implementation. All
the works and contracts to be financed by various donors would be financed on a parallel
basis. The Government's 4% contribution to the program would serve as counterpart funds
and its application would be fully documented and monitored as an integral part of the
project.
3.3   During negotiations, agreement was reached on: (a) the proposed institutional set-up
to execute the road programs; and (b) the detailed arrangements for technical assistance on
procurement procedures.
B. Staffing
3.4   The Ministry and its road departments are seriously overstaffed.  At the same time,
there is a lack of qualified engineers and specialists due to the low salary levels in the public
sector. These issues are being addressed in the Institutional Study of the Ministry but will
take time to resolve. The project seeks therefore to contract qualified expatriate Haitians
and/or qualified local consultants for key positions, under fixed-term contracts with salary
levels comparable to those offered in the private sector. The Ministry intends to set up a
recruitment committee to review the applications for the positions to be filled and the
contractual arrangements to be offered. The Government also intends to give salary



- 24 -
incentives for key field positions within the Government budget, in particular, in the regional
labor-intensive units of the road department.
C. IDA Procurement
3.5   The Government agreed during negotiations to use IDA standard documents for goods
and civil works under ICB, to follow IDA guidelines and standard procedures for the
engagement and use of consultants and to use procedures satisfactory to IDA for procurement
under LCB. To the extent possible, the procurement of goods and civil works would be done
by grouping the various equipment/material items or construction jobs in bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 and US$1 million or more per package,
respectively, in order to enhance the interest of suppliers/contractors to bid. The MTPTC
lacks the capacity to properly administer procurement. In view of past problems and delays,
the project will also finance assistance by a professional procurement finn/agency to review
the whole procurement system and procedures of the Ministry, and to assist the Ministry's
personnel directly with prequalification documentation, publication, bid evaluations, and
contract awards and payments against work done. Procurement under other co-financing
agencies will follow the concerned agencies' guidelines; and under the Government, its own
procurement guidelines. Procurement arrangements under IDA financing are detailed below.
3.6   Civil Works. Contracts for civil works, including road rehabilitation and repaving,
valued at or above US$1 million each, and expected to total about US$37.1 million, will be
procured through ICB procedures. Bidders for works estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of US$1 million or more would be prequalified in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. Domestic contractors may be allowed a margin of preference of 7.5 % for the
procurement of these works, in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for works under
US$1 million will be procured through LCB acceptable to IDA up to an aggregate of US$4.0
million. Bidders will be prequalified in accordance with Bank Guidelines. The following
principles will govern procurement under LCB: (i) foreign contractors will be allowed to bid
on all contracts and will not be required to be associated with local contractors or suppliers;
(ii) except for the use of unskilled labor, there will not be any restriction on sources of labor
or materials; (iii) the invitation to bid will be advertised for at least three days in a
newspaper of wide circulation in Haiti; (iv) no reference to minimum or maximum prices
will be used for purposes of evaluation of bids for the supply of goods; (v) bids will be
opened in public and their prices will be read aloud; and (vi) contracts must be awarded to
the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the bidding
documents. Contracts for small repair works for Port-au-Prince, with a value of less than
US$100,000 per contract, and with an aggregate value not exceeding US$0.5 million, will be
awarded through LCB procedures, limiting the participation to contractors that would be
prequalified on the basis of their assessed capacity. Within the scope of maintenance of the
intercity road network, direct contracting with local communities on the basis of reference
unit prices and standardized quantities will be permitted for routine maintenance and other
small road and drainage repair works contracts valued at less than US$200,000 each, but not
exceeding US$5.0 million, in aggregate; these works could also be awarded through LCB
procedures limiting the participation to contractors that would be prequalified on the basis of
their assessed capacity.



- 25 -
Procurement Methods 1/
(US$ mnillion)
Procurement Methods
Total
Project Element          ICB    LCB      Other    NBF _/      Cost
1. Civil Works           31.0    4.0      5.5      61.8        102.3
(31.0)  (4.0)    (4.4)3/              (39.4)
2. Equipment              1.2   0.2        0.3      0.5         2.2
(1.2)  (0.2)    (0.3)14/              (1.7)
3. Consultancies
A. Studies/Design                        3.5       3.5         7.0
and Supervision                        (3.5)                (3.5)
B. Technical Assistance                  4.6       5.7        10.3
Institutional Support                 (4.6)                 (4.6)
and Training                             _
PPF Refinancing                            0.8                  0.8
(0.8)                (0.8)
IDB Financing Charges                               2.4         2.4
Total                    32.2    4.2      14.7     73.9        125.0
1 (32.2)  (4.2)    (13.6)               (50.0)
I/ Figures in parentheses are amount financed by IDA.
2/ N.B.F.: Not Bank-financed.
3/ Reserved procurement with communities and prequalified small local contractors.
41 Shopping and small repair contracts.
3.7    Equipment and Repairs. Contracts for new equipment, tools and vehicles valued at
US$100,000 or more will be awarded through ICB using prequalification procedures in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Domestic manufacturers bidding for these goods
may be allowed a margin of preference according to Bank guidelines. LCB will be permitted
for the procurement of a single unit, a small group of equipment and/or tools, whose contract
cost would range between US$25,000 and US$100,000 but not exceeding US$200,000 in
aggregate. Shopping procedures, with price quotations from at least three suppliers, could be
used for the purchase of a single unit or a small group of equipment and/or tools, whose
contract cost would be less than US$25,000 but not exceeding US$100,000 in aggregate.
Minor repairs of a single or a group of equipment whose estimated cost of repairs would be
US$25,000 or less per contract and not exceeding US$200,000 in aggregate, could be
performed by local shops and directly contracted with the corresponding authorized
manufacturer's dealerships.
3.8    Consultant Services. Consultants for technical assistance, studies, works supervision
and detailed engineering will be selected following the 1981 Bank Group consultant
guidelines; their terms of reference were agreed during negotiations. Financing for training
tours and fellowships will be based on a detailed program to be submitted to IDA for prior
approval. The training program will include the qualifications of the candidates, the type and



- 26 -
tours and fellowships will be based on a detailed program to be submitted to IDA for prior
approval. The training program will include the qualifications of the candidates, the type and
cost of the training proposed, and an indication of the assignment proposed upon the return
of the candidates.
3.9  IDA's prior review of procurement documentation will cover all contracts for goods
estimated to cost US$25,000 equivalent or more and all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost US$200,000 or more. IDA's prior review will also include the first LCB for works and
the first maintenance works contract with village communities. In addition, all consulting
contracts will be subject to IDA's prior review. During negotiations. it was agreed that
MTPTC will follow the IDA procurement procedures detailed above, and use standard
bidding documents for the procurement of goods and works through ICB and LCB and the
Bank Group's standard contract for the engagement of consultants that will be financed under
the credit.
D. Disbursements
3.10 All the works and expenditures to be financed under the program by various donors
will be financed on a parallel basis, with reimbursement of 100% of all the contracts (net of
taxes and duties) for civil works, equipment and technical assistance. The Government
contribution proposed as part of the financing plan, would serve as counterpart funds for the
project. It would be fully justified and monitored (including in progress reports, financial
reporting requirements, and audits) throughout the project period. Counterpart funding for
the program would be constituted by the budgetary allocations for road maintenance, which
will be monitored as a condition for approvals of the yearly rehabilitation programs.
3.11  The project disbursement categories for the IDA credit and the related disbursement
percentages are given below.
3.12 Disbursements for eligible expenditures under civil works contracts below
US$200,000 and under contracts for goods below US$25,000 equivalent would be allowed
under Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), after the first year, provided that procurement
procedures are acceptable to the Association. The establishment of a special account for the
project is not recommended at this time in light of past country experience with these
accounts and its creation at a later date would depend on the actions taken by the
Government on unrecovered special accounts and exchange rate adjustments. Setting up such
account will be reviewed after the first year of project implementation. No withdrawals will
be made in respect of payments made by Government for any annual rehabilitation works not
approved by IDA. No retroactive financing is envisaged.
3.13  The project constitutes the Ministry's five-year road program. A conservative 6-year
implementation schedule is incorporated in the project disbursement estimates, in line with
past experience and the disbursement profile for this type of operations. The estimated
disbursement schedule of the IDA credit is presented below. The closing date would be
December 31, 2001.



- 27 -
Disbursement Categories                     Amou nt                         Disbursement
(Approx. US$ Mn)
1. Civil Works and Supervision
A. Intercity
(i)  rehabilitation/periodic maintenance         24.8                              100%
(ii) routine maintenance                          2.5                 100% until US$I million has been
disbursed; then, 80% until a cumulative
US$2 million has been disbursed; then,
B. Port-au-Prince                                                                 60% thereafter
(i)  rehabilitation/periodic maintenance          5.3
(ii) routine maintenance                          1.4                              100%
100% until US$1 million has been
disbursed; then, 80% until a cumulative
US$ 1.5 million has been disbursed; then,
60% thereafter
11. Equipment                                            1.7                              100%
111. Technical Assistance Studies, Training &            8.1                               100%
Institutional Support
IV. PPF Refinancing                                     0.8                               100%
V. Unallocated                                          5.4
TOTAL                                               50.0
Disbursement Schedule (Approx. US$ Mn)
FY96               FY97                FY98                FY99                FY00                FY01
Dec.     Jun.      Dec.      Jun.      Dec.      Jun.     Dec.       June      Dec.      June      Dec.      June
95       96        96        97        97       98        98         99        99        00        00        01
Annual           2.0      5.0       6.0       6.5       6.5      6.5       5.0        4.0       3.0       2.5       2.0       1.0
Cumulative       2.0      7.0      13.0    19.5        26.0    32.5       37.5       41.5      44.5      47.0      49.0     50.0
E. Financial Reporting and Auditing
3.14 Project accounts will be maintained by the Coordinating Unit under the Directorate
General (and subsequently by the new road departments), in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, to record all program and project expenditures. Separate
accounts will be kept on each component and will be available for review during supervision
missions. Agreement was reached during negotiations that two professional accountants
from a local accounting firrm will be recruited under the project to record and authorize all
project expenditures (one for each road unit). A senior partner of the firm will review
periodically the adequacy of the accounts. Recruitment of the two professional accountants is
a condition for Credit effectiveness. In parallel to this arrangement, the project also includes



- 28 -
assistance to review and strengthen the financial, accounting and budget procedures of the
Ministry.
3.15  Agreement was also reached during negotiations, that annual audits will be performed
by independent external auditors satisfactory to IDA. Such audits will cover project and
program accounts, the special account, if created later or durinig project implementation, and
at least 70% of the expenditures under SOE. In addition, agreemiient was reached that the
Road Maintenance Financing Mechanism, once created, will be audited annually, and that the
audit report on the Mechanism will also be sent annually to IDA for review and comments.
Audit reports will be provided to IDA within four monitlhs after the end of each fiscal year.
F. Monitoring
3.16 As part of the agreed action plans, MTPTC will prepare anid update each year: (i) the
five-year road programs on the intercity and Port-au-Prince networks; (ii) the detailed
maintenance and rehabilitation programs for the following year; (iii) a table detailing the
actual implementation experience on the previous year's program; and (iv) the corresponding
budget allocations to road maintenance. In addition, it will provide a detailed report
summarizing compliance with the agreed action program as a condition for approving the
future programs. These annual reports will be made available to the donor agencies at the
time of budget preparation, i.e. before September of each year, and will provide the basis for
the annual reviews to be carried out by IDA and IDB.
3.17  Summary semi-annual progress reports will also be prepared on all the program
components (by March and September), indicating the performance of each component by
source of financing, as a standard monitoring document for all donor agencies involved in the
program. Quarterly reports will be prepared on the road maintenance and rehabilitation
program and on its related cash flow and efficiency monitoring indicators, and monthly
supervision reports on each civil work contracts, as a management tool to monitor the whole
program. The monitoring arrangements for the program, the performance monitoring
indicators and the supervision plan (Annex 5) were agreed during negotiations.
IV. PROJECT EVALUATION AND RISKS
A. Economic Evaluation
4.1   A detailed economic analysis of the rehabilitation programs was performed by
consultants during project preparation and reviewed by the 1991 appraisal. Regarding the
roads to be rehabilitated, the ERRs of the interurban component vary from 38% to more than
100%, averaging 63%, and those calculated for the urban component vary from 12% to
above 100%, averaging 40%. The corresponding NPVs are US$132.2 million for the
interurban rehabilitation component and US$20.9 million for the urban rehabilitation
component for a combined totalof US$153.1 million at a discount rate of 12%. These results
are in line with international experience, which shows generally high rates of return for
rehabilitation and maintenance programs. Overall, project benefits to the country are



- 29 -
expected to be substantial in terms of reduced transport costs, foreign exchange savings (the
largest components of road operating costs are all imported items in Haiti), increased
employment through the development of labor-intensive activities, and positive impact on the
poor through the reestablishment of regular access to markets and social services.
4.2   For the intercity rehabilitation program, the economic analysis was carried out using
the HDM. The sections to be rehabilitated were divided into links considered homogeneous
in terms of traffic level and physical condition. Based on engineering data, present and
projected traffic as well as cost parameters, the model simulated the operating conditions for
each link and calculated the total vehicle operating costs (VOC). The model also analyzed
various technical alternatives for both the paved and the unpaved networks, in order to
determine the best alternative. This analysis resulted in the recommendation to include in the
project 170 km of paved roads and 80 km of unpaved roads.
4.3   After selection of the best option, the complete list of projects was ordered by NPV.
A positive NPV, a benefit to cost ratio of more than 1 and a minimum ERR of 12% was
required for any road to be included in the program. Fund availability and implementation
experience finally determined that only the first 17 sections could be rehabilitated under the
proposed project which will therefore only include the sections whose NPVs exceed US$1.30
million. All NPVs would remain acceptable at 12% or better even if costs increased by 20%
while the expected benefits would be reduced by 20%. In the future, the model still needs to
be refined, through optimization of the network requirements under budget constraints rather
than through optimization of individual road sections only.
4.4   The urban rehabilitation program, required a different approach because distortions
appear when the HDM model is used for low speed traffic, which is the case in Port-au-
Prince where high congestion prevails. As it was assumed that the rehabilitation program
might have little impact on congestion, the methodology used to carry out the economic
analysis consisted of evaluating the impact of roughness reduction on VOC, assuming a
constant speed of 30 km per hour.
4.5   For the interurban component, various options were considered for rehabilitation
(routine maintenance, overlay or reconstruction). However, in view of the very deteriorated
condition of most urban roads, mere engineering considerations indicated that reconstruction
was the only viable alternative in most cases. Various pavement options were then
considered: asphalt concrete, double bituminous surface treatment and adoquins. A
preliminary economic analysis comparing bituminous surfacing with adoquins, including
investments and maintenance costs as well as VOC, indicated that while the NPV is higher
for bituminous surfacing (by about 10%), the total discounted road agency costs of adoquins
(i.e. investments and maintenance) is lower by about the same margin for the project roads;
furthermore, the benefits of adoquins increase substantially under less than optimal
maintenance practices. Therefore, the adoquin alternative was chosen whenever technically
feasible (mostly on secondary streets) while arterials would be paved with asphalt concrete.
4.6   Taking into account the above considerations for choosing the best type of pavement
surfacing, an economic analysis was then carried out for each homogeneous section of the



- 30 -
main urban network. The economic benefits used in the analysis only took into account the
reduced VOC on a constant level of traffic, and no passenger time savings nor any traffic
generation. The model shows that all project roads have a very satisfactory ERR, despite
these conservative assumptions. The sensitivity analysis, however, indicates that three
secondary streets might have an ERR below 12% if costs were to increase by 20% while
benefits are reduced by 20%. Therefore, yearly work programs were determined primarily
by technical considerations, most importantly: (i) the need to closely coordinate the road
works with other on-going projects (drainage and water distribution); (ii) the need to
complete detailed studies on some roads due to specific problems, such as erosion; and (iii)
the need to avoid increased traffic congestion during work implementation.
B. Environrnental Assessment
4.7   An environmental assessment was carried out by IDB consultants during project
preparation and appraisal to: (i) determine the environmental impact of the program; (ii)
review MTPTC's environmental procedures; and (iii) recommend appropriate actions to be
undertaken under the project. Regarding the environmental impact of the program, the
consultants' findings were that: (i) the overall impact of the project is positive; (ii) the few
possible negative impacts could be mitigated by carrying out annual environmental reviews as
part of work programming, and by ensuring appropriate technical specifications and close
supervision for the works; but (iii) an important issue is the negative impact of the overall
environmental deterioration caused by deforestation and the resulting erosion on some
sections of the road network.
4.8   The overall impact of the proposed program is, in general, positive. It will address
past environmental problems caused by past faulty road design and construction, and lack of
maintenance, through upgrading drainage structures and by routine cleaning of drains.
Increased pressure on natural resources as an indirect result of improved transport should be
marginal as the program will only include the rehabilitation of the most traveled roads
4.9   The only environmental risks of the project concern construction methods and
standards, i.e.: (i) the uncontrolled exploitation of borrow pits; (ii) the inadequate
management of construction wastes; and (iii) the poor stabilization of slopes. These risks
are, however, relatively marginal as the proposed program is designed and supervised
directly by the administration. In addition, the use of borrow pits and waste disposal will be
controlled under the project through annual environmental reviews and appropriate contract
specifications and supervision procedures. These will ensure that: (i) new pits are properly
operated and illegal use of closed pits is prevented; (ii) construction wastes are disposed in
pre-assigned, adequately designed and managed sites; and (iii) the slopes would be protected
to prevent erosion.
4.10  Possibly the most important environmental issue is the impact of the erosion of upper
slopes and watersheds on the roads. Large masses of soil and gravel are washed out on
some roads during each rainy season and stop traffic routinely, like on the Northern
Highway, and/or affect drainage systems by plugging box culverts and consequently flooding
the road, especially on the Southern Highway. To address the cause of these problems (i.e.



- 31 -
the widespread deforestation occurring in Haiti) is beyond the scope of this project.
However, an environmental study will be carried out during the first year of project
implementation to: (i) identify sites where erosion and sedimentation problems are currently,
or may in the future affect the roads to be rehabilitated; (ii) specify various short-term and
long-term actions required for each site; (iii) perform a comparative economic analysis of the
various alternatives proposed; and (iv) prepare detailed engineering designs as required.
4.11   Regarding the review of MTPTC's environmental procedures, the on-going
institutional study of the Ministry also includes in its terms of reference the review of the
broader role of the Ministry concerning environmental regulation and enforcement in all the
sectors under its supervision. This aspect has received full support from the Government.
As part of its reorganization, MTPTC intends to create an environmental division within a
new Directorate of Energy, Water and Environment. That division would include three
separate units: (i) an impact evaluation unit, in charge of making environmental assessments
in all the sectors under MTPTC's jurisdiction and of preparing appropriate environmental
norms and regulations; (ii) a monitoring and control unit, in charge of ensuring proper
enforcement of those norms and regulations; and (iii) a technical support unit in charge of
providing assistance to MTPTC staff, contractors, communities and municipalities when
undertaking major infrastructure programs. project includes the necessary support to make
this new environmental unit operational. The effectiveness of the Division's configuration
would be reviewed at the annual project performance review meetings.
C. Project Risks
4.12  The project's investment components are relatively simple and with the technical
assistance to be provided for implementation should not involve substantial risks. The
project's institutional and policy reform objectives are, however, complex as they involve a
substantial shift in road maintenance practices, management and financing. This would take
time and hence the reforms being scheduled for achievement during the second half of the
implementation period. The eventual success of the program would depend on the sustained
commitment of the Government to increase private and community participation in the
program and to provide appropriate maintenance funding. Possible project risks therefore
include: (i) implementation delays and cost overruns, at least initially; (ii) insufficient
budgetary allocations and payment delays which might reduce private sector interest in the
program; and (iii) slow progress on the institutional program and action plan. These risks
should be mitigated by: (i) the flexible design of the project linking annual work programs to
the actual implementation capacity of the Ministry; (ii) the growing interest and capacity of
the local private sector, as already tested in a pilot operation; (iii) the permanent financing
arrangements proposed, which should lead to an increased local pressure for road financing;
and (iv) the project arrangements linking approval of the annual rehabilitation programs to
progress on the action plan. Additionally, intensive IDA supervision would be required,
especially during the annual reviews and in the early stages of project implementation.
4.13  The most important risks of the project are those associated with possible
implementation delays and cost overruns. The project works are relatively simple and do not
involve complex issues, except those relating to organization and planning. The private



- 32 -
sector response has been tested and should be positive. However, the most pervasive
problem in Haiti is the weak institutional capacity of the public sector and the outdated and
complex procedures for contract approval and payments. Thus, the project seeks to support
a major shift in the role of the Ministry and to streamline internal procedures. In view of the
major change in mentalities that this shift will involve, and the major restructuring effort
required to support it, delays due to resistance within some quarters of the administration are
likely, especially in the early years of project implementation.
4.14  Recent bids on major contracts in Haiti have also regularly been above appraisal
estimates. This was due in part to limited competition and political and social uncertainties
during the past transitional period in Haiti, and in part to foreign exchange fluctuation. This
situation is expected to improve in the next few years. However, it is likely that prices may
initially remain high, especially if the private sector is not convinced of the Government's
commitment to the program, and payments to contractors are not timely.
4.15 These risks are manageable and are mitigated by the project design. However, they
are to some extent inherent to the development process, and will primarily depend on the
Government's real commitment to the program. The project was designed in a flexible way
to allow for its adaptation to the pace of actual work implementation and progress on the
action program agreed. Its eventual success, however, will depend on a sustained effort by
the Government in integrating the private sector, improving the efficiency of the
administrative apparatus, and in improving revenue allocations to its maintenance program.
4.16  Due to its broad scope and its flexible design, the proposed project will require
intensive supervision by IDA, IDB and other co-financing staff, especially during the annual
reviews and the initial implementation period. This will also be a prerequisite for the
eventual success of the project.
V. Summary of Agreements Reached
5.1   The summary of agreements reached is presented in the decision matrix below (Lox
4).



- 33 -
Box 4 - Decision Matrix
Summary of Agreements Reached
Durinn Negotiations, agreements were reached on:
(i)  institutional aspects: the objectives and action plan on the restructuring program of the Ministry,
including the Environmental Division; the proposed new structure for the Road Program; and on
detailed transitory arrangements until the new stricture is established;
(ii)  sector policy framework: the TORs on the Transport Master Plan and Traffic Plan for Port-au-
Prince; that a broad transport policy framework and investment programs will be prepared by
December 31, 1996; and that any sector investment exceeding US$5 million will be discussed with
IDA/IDB before implementation;
(iii)  financial aspects: the detailed annual budgetary contributions; TORs and timing of the Road
Maintenance Financing Altematives Study; the broad objectives and scope of the Road Maintenance
Financing Mechanism; and that the Road Maintenance Financing Mechanism will be established by
March 31, 1997; agreement that road user charges will at all times be sufficient to cover at least
road maintenance expenditures.
(iv)  road program: the criteria and action plan for approving the yearly road programs; that the road
programs will be explicitly broken down between private contractors, communities and force
account works; and that the yearly programs will be forwarded to IDA by June 30 of each year at
the latest. Compliance with the action plan will be a condition for approving new rehabilitation
expenditures;
(v)  proiect arrangements: the arrangements for proiect execution and for technical assistance on
procurement procedures; on the proposed technical assistance and training; on procurement
procedures; that two professional accountants will be retained to monitor the project expenditures
and that the project and program accounts and road maintenance funds will be audited annually;
and on monitoring arrangements.
As conditions for Board presentation, MTPTC will confirm the transitory arrangements for executing the
road programs; the appointments of the person(s) to head the road unit(s); and the staffing of key positions.
As conditions for Credit effectiveness, MTPTC will present:
(i)  confirmation that it has appointed a long term road maintenance expert and one external
professional accounting firm; and the procurement advisor;
(ii)  confirmation of the actual budgetary amount allocated for the first-year program;
(iii)  the start of the Road Maintenance Financing Study; and
(iv)  the establishment and staffing of the Coordinating Unit.



- 34 -
VI. Recommendation
6.1   Following agreement on the above conditions, the proposed Project qualifies for IDA
lending as a credit amounting to SDR 34.6 million (approximately US$50.0 million
equivalent), on standard IDA terms.



- 35 -                              Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
HAITI
ROADS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Transport Sector Policy Statement and Action Plan
1.    The Government of Haiti will, through the proposed Roads Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project, engage consultants to assist it in developing a transport sector policy
and investment plan. In the interim, the Government's current objectives, policies and
strategy are presented below.
For the Transport Sector
2.    The principal objectives of the Government's transport sector policy are:
(a)   to increase competition in transport sector operations and activities and to
promote the participation of the private sector;
(b)   to repair the country's deteriorated transport infrastructure;
(c)   to increase the efficiency of the sector's agencies and to ensure the financial
autonomy of the revenue-earning agencies through adequate cost recovery and
increased productivity;
(d)   to rationalize the management of the transport sector as a whole, especially of
the sector's investments, policies and regulations.
For the Roads Subsector
3.    (a)   improve the enforcement of the technical transport regulations;
(b)   to increase the private sector's participation in carrying out road and bridge
works, including studies, design, engineering supervision and works execution;
(c)   to rehabilitate the road network and maintain it adequately;
(d)   to ensure adequate cost recovery and reliable funding for road rehabilitation,
maintenance and management;
(e)   to strengthen MTPTC's capacity, especially for procurement and contract
management, traffic management and safety, road maintenance management
and road planning; and
(f)   to strengthen MTPTC's capacity to integrate environmental considerations into
its activities.



- 36 -                             Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
4.    Enforcement of Transport Regulations. The Government plans to improve the
enforcement of transport regulations. Measures to be taken in that regard will be part of the
recommendations of the proposed Transport Master Plan study and Traffic Master Plan study
for Port au Prince. The Government will start the implementation of the studies'
recommendations by June 30, 1997.
5.    Private Sector Involvement. MTPTC has been using private contractors for road
construction and rehabilitation works,but has done most maintenance by force account. The
Government intends to systematically substitute private contractors for MTPTC force account
in road maintenance also. To ensure the smooth and efficient introduction of this approach,
the Government will, through the proposed Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project,
provide technical assistance to assist in expanding the private sector's role. The Government
intends to increase the private sector's participation in maintenance gradually to about 80%
by the year 2000.
6.    Rehabilitation of the Road Network. The Government will restore the priority sections
of its road network through the proposed Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project.
Under the project, about 250 km of the most important national roads and about 31 km of
Port au Prince streets will be rehabilitated. In addition, about 2000 km of intercity roads and
169 km of city streets will be maintained during the project's five years of implementation.
7.    Road Subsector Financing. The Government would carry out, under the proposed
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, a study of alternative mechanisms for
financing the roads subsector and implement the study's recommendations. In the meantime,
the Government will make the following minimum amounts available in its budget to meet its
counterpart contribution to the proposed project and for maintenance:
Year        Counterpart        Maintenance
Funds                    Funds
US$                      US$m
1996        1.0                      3.5
1997        1.0                      4.5
1998        1.0                      4.0
1999        1.5                      2.5
8.    Strengthening MTPTC's Capacity. The Government plans to reorganize MTPTC to
improve its internal efficiency and to shift its role from carrying out roadwork with its own
forces to managing the execution of those works by the private sector. The most significant
changes would include the separation of the planning and policy formulation and
implementation function from of the management of road construction and maintenance
activities. The Government has already began measures to strengthen MTPTC's capacity
through decentralization of its force account operations. The Government will also, under the
proposed Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, provide technical assistance and
training in the areas of (i) procurement, (ii) contract management, (iii) traffic management
and safety, (iv) axle-load control, (v) road maintenance management and (vi) road planning.



- 37 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
The Government is considering the feasibility of a twinning arrangement with a road agency
of a French-speaking developed country. Overseas training, both short-term and long-term
would be part of MTPTC's training.
9.   Incorporating Environmental Consideration in Road Activities. The Government
intends to incorporate more directly environmental impact analysis and mitigation into all its
infrastructure activities. Environmental considerations would be factored into both the
planning, design, construction and maintenance stages. To this end, MTPTC will establish an
Environmental Unit (Cellule).



- 38 -                              Annex 2
Page 1 of 6
HAITI
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Interurban and Urban Project Components
I. Interur ban Component
Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance (IDA allocation US $ 24.83 million)
1.    Table A2. 1 presents the list of rehabilitation and periodic maintenance subprojects to
be executed under the project including the results of the economic analysis of these
subprojects. IDA's program will include: Route Nationale 1 from Port-au-Prince to Cap-
Haitien (251 km); Gonaives-Port de Paix (65 km); and Carrefour La Mort-Ouanaminthe (65
km). During the first year, final engineering studies will be prepared for the first two roads
and works will begin on the St. Marc-Gonaive section of Route National 1 (50 kmn) which is
the section in worst condition. Second year projects will include the rest of RN1 and,
subject to the results of the engineering studies and the availability of funds in the Credit,
Gonaives-Port de Paix. Engineering studies for Route National 1 will be financed under the
on-going Seventh Highway Project (Credit 1756) and those for the Gonaives-Port de Paix,
under the new Credit.
2.    ROUTE NATIONALE 1. For the purpose of analysis, Route National 1 has been
divided into four sections as follows:
-   Pont Rouge-Bon Repos (13.6 km)
-   Bon Repos-Sortie Saint Marc (88 km)
-   Saint Marc-Gonaives (50 km)
-   Gonaives-Cap-Haitien (101 km)
3.    Pont Rouge-Bon Repos (13.6 km, asphalt concrete) has a varying cross section (7-12
m) and carries a high traffic volume in the first section which is highly congested (12,500
vpd of which less than 10% is medium to heavy truck traffic). Section carries also a high
volume of pedestrian traffic requiring the introduction of safety measures (adequate shoulder
width and possibly sidewalks in some sections). Parts of this section are flooded frequently
and therefore expenditures will be directed, in part, to solve the drainage problem. The first
8 km of this road (Pont Rouge-Y intersection with Route National 3) could be widened to 4
lanes as the required right-of-way appears to be there. This section shows wear. Lane
painting and on-street parking restrictions along this section would increase the use of the
existing capacity of some sections which are already 4-lane wide. This section will be
studied as part of the Urban Transport Study.
4.    The section after the y-intersection (RN1\RN3) presents some problems with
permanent constructions on the right-of-way. Studies conducted in 1991 recommend an AC
overlay on this section ranging from 8 cm in thickness near Port-au-Prince and 3 cm on the
Bon Repos side. The 1991 cost estimate of $5.4 million to provide the required
strengthening of the AC (US$ 3.4 million) and solve the drainage problem (US$ 2.0 million)
will be reviewed as part of the engineering study.



- 39 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
5.    Bon Repos-Sortie Saint Marc ( 88 km, asphalt concrete) two lanes (7 m) and an ADT
of 1450 vpd (12% trucks). Floods are frequent in parts of this section. In addition, there
are localized structural problems. The 1991 report recommends the placing of an overlay in
the sections Bon Repos-Sta. Terrienne (26.4 km) and Montrouis-Saint Marc (21.6 km). A
similar intervention may be required on the section Sta. Terrienne-Montrouis (40 krm). The
estimated average expenditures for the entire section range from US$ 60,000 to US$
80,000/km.
6.    Saint Marc-Gonaives (50 km, asphalt concrete) two lanes (7 m) with an ADT of 1400
vpd (10% trucks). Section completely destroyed. Reconstruction/major rehabilitation works
required. This project is included in the first year program. Cost estimated at US$ 12.5
million or US$ 250,000/km. Section to be subjected to study to confirm/determine needs.
7.    Gonaives-Cap-Haitien (101 km, Double Surface Treatment) two lanes. Rehabilitation
works done in 1990. Most of the section is in good condition requiring only periodic
maintenance and the improvement of shoulders in some sections. Flooding is a problem in
the section Gonaives-Intersection Route d'Ennery (26 km). Also there are 5 km in this
section that have experienced abnormal deterioration considering the road was rehabilitated in
1990. The section Intersection Route d'Ennery-Limbe (50 km), is in good condition except
for 4 km but lacks shoulders. Also, work needs to be done on a bridge. The section Limbe-
Cap-Haitien (25 km) is in good condition. Estimated cost for this section is US$ 2 million
or an average expenditure of US$ 20,000/km.
8.    Tables A2.2, to A2.5 are the tentative schedules for the preparation of the engineering
studies, the execution of the works and the consulting services for road supervision to be
financed by IDA. Both the studies and the actual rehabilitation and maintenance works will
be divided as follows:
Route 1
- Pont Rouge-Bon Repos-Sortie Saint Marc
- Saint Marc-Gonaives
- Gonaives-Cap Haitien
Gonaives-Port de Paix
- Gonaives-Gros Morne
Gros Morne-Port de Paix
9.    A short list of consulting firms, with at least five firms each, will be prepared for
each of the three sections of Route Nationale 1. The engineering studies for this road will be
financed with the remaining funds in Credit 1756 (estimated cost of the studies US$ 0.9 to
1.0 million). A short list of consultants will be prepared for the road Gonaives-Port de Paix.
The consultants for this latter road will be responsible for checking and revising the
engineering design prepared by MTPTC for the section Gonaives-Gros Mome and will
prepare the engineering studies for the section Gros Morne-Port de Paix.
10.   Rehabilitation works for the section Saint Marc-Gonaive will be included in the first
year program. It is estimated that the works will be completed in 30 to 36 months. The
rehabilitation/maintenance works on the remaining sections of this road are scheduled to



- 40 -                            Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
commence during the second year of the project. Depending on the findings of the
engineering studies, works on the section Pont Rouge-Saint Marc may take up to 36 months
to complete (time estimate includes the drainage works to be financed under the project,
about US$ I million). Works on the section Gonaive-Cap-Haitiene should be completed
within 18 months (excluding the bridge).
11.   Rehabilitation Works for the road Gonaives-Port de Paix will be tentatively left for
year two or three of the IDA program subject to confirmation of its priority and the
availability of funds in the Credit.
Community Maintenance (IDA allocation US$ 2 million)
12.   The program envisions the routine maintenance activities by communities of about
750 km (787 kin) with approximately 296 km to be included in first year 250 additional in
the second year, and 241 in the third year. Financing for this component will come from
both IDA and IDB and the GOH. The first year program, which includes approximately 138
km of feeder roads in the South East region of the country and 157 in the Artibonite and
North West regions of the country, is being reviewed by the Office of Labor-Intensive Works
(HIMO) and SEPPRN in order to confirm its priority and to update the cost estimates. The
South East region was affected by the tropical storm Gordon and, as a result of this, the
nature of the works may have changed. IDA's first year program is being finalized by
HIMO and SEPPRN.
Routine Maintenance by Contract (IDA allocation US$ 0.55 million)
13.   Based on the results of the recently completed study on the capacity of the
construction industry in Haiti, there is a good number of small local contractors with enough
capacity to carry out routine maintenance on approximately 1000 km of the road network
with the work being split into six sections of approximately 150-170 km each. The network
to be maintained by contractors will be selected from the three-year maintenance program
prepared by SEPPRN. Financing for this component will come from IDA, BID and the
GOH. IDA's first year program is being finalized by SEPPRN and HIMO. SEPPRN.
Financing for this component will come from IDA, BID and the GOH. IDA's first year
program is being finalized by SEPPRN and HIMO. SEPPRN. Financing for this component
will come from IDA, BID and the GOH. IDA's first year program is being finalized by
SEPPRN and HIMO. SEPPRN. Financing for this component will come from IDA, IDB
and the GOH. IDA's first year program is being finalized by SEPPRN and 1IMO.
Road Maintenance Equipment (IDA Allocation US$ 1 million)
14.  IDA will finance US$ 1 million for road maintenance equipment mainly hand tools
for community maintenance needs. 11IMO will prepare list of needs and send them to IDA
together with the first year program. MTCPT equipment requirements to provide basic
capacity to MTCPT Departments to carry out force account and emergency works, will be
sent to IDA with the first year program. It is expected that during the first year program the
hand tools for HIM0 will be acquired. Other equipment will be acquired during year 2 of
the project.



- 41 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
II. Urban Component
Rehabilitation Subprojects
15.   Tables A2.5 y A2.6 present the list of rehabilitation subprojects to be executed under
the project. These tables together show the length, type of pavement, cost, programming,
procurement planning and financing source for each rehabilitation subproject. Figures A2.1
through A2.3 present Gantt charts with the expected timeframe of the activities necessary to
implement the rehabilitation subprojects. The results of the economic analysis for these
subprojects described in paragraphs 4.4 through 4.8 are presented in Table A2.7.
Detailed Description of First-Year Rehabilitation Subprojects
16.   First-year subprojects include the rehabilitation of 14 km of streets in Port-au-Prince.
Works will consist of rehabilitation of the pavement structure, drainage, potable water
system, sidewalks, curbs and gutters. During the design phase of this subprojects, which is
about to be continued after a three-year freeze during the embargo, the following issues will
be considered:
17.   For the streets that present high pedestrian traffic volumes, the design will try to
obtain an appropriate compromise between the widths of street and sidewalks to be
rehabilitated, subject to the constraint of the existing right-of-way.
18.   Since the objective is to rehabilitate the streets under their existing right-of-way, only
a very limited number of expropriations (and the consequent relocation of people) is
expected.
19.   Pavement designs will be based on both destructive and non-destructive testing (NDT)
to be performed by the national road laboratory at the request of the design consultants.
Pavement structures will be either asphalt concrete (AC) or adoquins, as a function of
existing pavement structures, structural need and traffic volumes. Whenever possible, i.e.
when traffic volumes are less than 5,000 AADT, adoquin pavements will be used to support
the utilization of labor-intensive techniques.
20.   Existing drainage infrastructure will be studied and its rehabilitation/improvement will
be included in the works. Drainage will be added to streets currently lacking it.
21.   The following paragraphs present a detailed description of the six streets to be
financed by the Association during the first year of project implementation.
Delnas 2 Avenue
This subproject includes the full length of Avenue Delmas 2, from Rue St. Martin to
Avenue Delmas (630 m). Avenue Delmas 2 is an AC street in fair to bad shape,
presenting only surface course distress. High deflection measurements on this street
indicate the need for structural reinforcement. Subject to the results of the final
design, it is expected that there will be a need to replace only the surface course with
new AC pavement. Delmas 2 already has 1.00-1.50 m sidewalks, which are deemed



- 42 -                              Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
to be sufficient to accommodate the existing and projected pedestrian traffic volumes.
Existing drainage, though apparently appropriate, will be checked and improved if
necessary.
Rue du Quai
This subproject includes the segment of Rue du Quai that goes from Rue Fronts Forts
to Rue Paul VI (580 m). Rue du Quai is a portland cement concrete (PCC) street in
fair to very bad shape, presenting mainly surface course distress, except for a few
completely failed segments. Subject to the results of the final design, it is expected
that there will be a need for an AC overlay and complete reconstruction of the failed
areas. Rue du Quai has 2.50 m sidewalks, which are deemed to be sufficient to
accommodate the existing and projected pedestrian traffic volumes for most of the
length of this subproject. In the area close to the existing market along Rue du Quai,
special analysis is necessary of the existing vehicle/pedestrian traffic interaction with
the objective of optimizing traffic flow and diminishing friction. Existing drainage,
though apparently appropriate, will be checked and improved if necessary.
Rue de la Reunion
Rue de la Reunion is 900 m long, extending from Rue Durand to Rue Paul VI. It is
mostly a double surface treatment (DST) street, with a segment in PCC. Rue de la
Reunion is in fair to very bad shape, presenting mainly surface course distress. High
deflection measurements on this street indicate the need for structural reinforcement.
It is expected that there will be a need to replace only the surface course with new
AC pavement. Rue de la Reunion already has 2.50-3.00 m sidewalks, which are
deemed to be sufficient to accommodate the existing and projected pedestrian traffic
volumes. Existing drainage, though apparently appropriate, will be checked and
improved if necessary.
Lamartiniere Avenue
Lamartiniere Avenue is 1060 m long, extending from Martin Luther King Avenue to
Christophe Avenue. Its DST surface course presents extensive raveling and
corrugation. Replacement of both the base and surface courses is envisioned, using
AC for the surface course. Thicknesses will be determined by CBR and deflection
testing to be performed during the design phase. The existing conceptual design
provides for new 1.00 m sidewalks, maintaining at the same time a roadway width of
at least 6.00 m. This will be confirmed with an analysis is necessary of the existing
vehicle/pedestrian traffic interaction with the objective of optimizing traffic flow
within the existing right-of-way and diminishing friction. Existing drainage, though
apparently appropriate, will be checked and improved if necessary.
Charles Summer Avenue
Charles Summer is 575 m long, extending from Lamartiniere to Jean Paul II. It is
currently surfaced with DST. Charles Summer is in fair to bad shape, presenting
mainly surface course distress. High deflection measurements on this street indicate



-43                              Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
the need for structural reinforcement. Charles Summer is expected to be
reconstructed with adoquins, maximizing the utilization of local unskilled labor. As
support for the adoquin surface, a 20 cm base course will be put in place. Sidewalks,
curbs and gutters will be provided or rehabilitated. Appropriate underground
drainage will be installed.
Martin Luther King Avenue
Martin Luther King Avenue, 2,880 m long, is a DST street extending from Jean Paul
II to Delmas Avenue. This avenue is in fair to bad shape, presenting mainly surface
course distress and extensive patching, except for a few isolated points where the
pavement structure has failed. High deflection measurements on this street indicate
the need for structural reinforcement. For most of the length of Martin Luther King,
there should only be a need to replace the surface course with new AC pavement,
whose thickness will be determined during the final design phase through both
destructive and NDT. At the few failed points, such as the corner with Rue Cheriez,
full reconstruction is expected. This low point will be redesigned to ensure
appropriate drainage. The subproject also contemplates widening the sidewalks to
1.25 m.
Periodic Maintenance Subprojects
22.   Table A2.8 presents a list of the periodic maintenance subprojects programmed to be
executed under the project.
Routine Maintenance by Contract
23.   Figures A2.4 and A2.5 present bar diagrams with the expected timeframe of the
activities necessary to carry out the routine maintenance work by contract to be performed in
urban areas under the project.
Technical Assistance
24.   Figure A2.6 presents the timing of the programmed technical assistance for the urban
component. These technical assistance activities are described in Annex 1.



HAITI
ROAD NIAINTENANCE ANI) REHABILITATION PROJECT
Five year Rehahilitation and Maintenance Prugrani
Code                          Road                        lenght   Widthi  Surface    Route   ADT           Action Required          NPV    F KR   Financia   Economic
Kins      M       Type     Class                                         12 7.    91        I Cost      Costs
SMillion            SMillion
94 01  IIASC() - IIOPITAL HioN Rl'l'0S                    13.20    7.00    BBIT      NLE      12417   OVERI.AY+DRAINAGE            33.59   169.5(       540         4.32
176 01   CRRI.SIIADA - CRX l)lS UOUQUl.TS                   7.00    7.00    ASPII    NLE        5864   REHlABILTA'I'ION tHll        11.33    94.00        2.10        1.68
20901 IPONT SONI)E - lFSTERF                               17.30    7.00    BICO      NlE       1312   RENFORCE. BICO               10.07    88.70        2.34        1.87
216,t1   BARRAGI - TII()MONII                               27.3   5.00    GRAV    NLE           109  REGRAV+DRAINAGE                9.65    84.80        1.67        1134
75.01   TIIOMONDE-IIINCIIE                               14-50    7.50    GRAV    NLE           109  RI;GRAV+DRAINAGE,              5.92    83.40        1.72        1.38
99.01   PONI MIRAGOANE-CRRI.IDES RUlISSEAUX                3.60    7.00    BBIT     NLE        1159  REIIAB. BB                      1.54    59.00       0.64        ( 051
222.02   AVAN'I' I'OSTE ll.OGANE -CRRF  DUFORF              4.60    7.00    BBIT      NLE       2678   OVERLAY                       2.84    53.30        1.38        1.10
77.02  't'RIANON -MIREBALAIS                              10 50    6.00    GRAV    Nl E         163  REGRAV+DRAINAGE                1.56    51.30        0.85        0.68
14 01   CRRF. L.A MOR'r - IIMONADE                         7.25    7.00    BICO     DEPT        752   RFESIAL                       1.09    50.80       0.86         0.69
216.01   MIRFBALAIS - BARRAGE                              14.20    7.00    GRAV    NLE          109  RF?GRAV+DRAINAGE                1.60    50.40       (.88        0.70
60t01   MONtROtIS - SAINr-MARC                            21.60    7.00 LHIT         NLE       1464   OVERLAY                       7.27    49-7()       3.28        2 62
212.01   SAINT-MARC - PONTSSONI)E                          12.60    7.00    uIco      NLE       1312   RENFORCFEBICO                  3.20    46.90       1.76        1.41
93.01  IlOPITAL BON REPOS - S'l'A. TFRRIENNE              26.40    7 00    BBIT     NLE        2568   OVERLAY                       7.56    46.00        3.96        3.17
59.01   PONT L'STRERE-GONAIVIES                           24.50    7.00    BICO      Nl E      1356   RENFORCE. 1I3CO               6.92    45.90        3.72        2.98
96.01   MARCIIECARREFOtlR-AVANTPOSTE LIO                  24.10    7.00    BETON   NLE         3215   SLABREPAIR                     3.64    44.60       2.50        2.00
98.01   GRAND)-GOAVE - PETITE GOAVE                       10.30    7.00    BBIT      NLE       1157  REHIAB. BB                      2.93    42.90       1.86        1.49     1
139.01   CRRfz. BAC - MAREFRANC                            16.20    5.75    GRAV    D)EPT        120  REGRAV+D)RAINAGE               0.60    38.00        1.12        (.9(0   -I
246.02   CAVAIILON - BARADILRlS                           36.00    5 00    GRAV    l'ENE         175  REGRAV+I)RAINAGF               5.01    35.90       2.48        1.98
12.01   PLAISANCE - IILATE                                13.40    6.00    GRAV    DEPT         147  REGRAV+DRAINAGE                 1.45    34.00       1.14        u91      1
99.01   PETIT-GOAVE -PONT MIRAGONNE                       23.80    7.00    BBIT      NLE       1159   REIIAB. BB                    4.83    33.70        4.28        3.42
3.01  P'ORT DE PAIX - ST. LOUIS                          14.00    5.00    GRAV    DEPT         260   REIIAB. GRAVIER                1.20    33.50       1.30        1.04
108.01   JACMEL - LAFOND                                    8.40    5.00    GRAV    DEPT         106  REGRAV+DRAINAGE                0.68    32.90        0.65        0).52
46.01   GONAIVES-CRF. CORIDON                             34.50    5.50    GRAV    DEPT         227   REGRAV+DRAINAGE               2.84    30.10        2.38        1.90
30.01   TR. DU NORD-TR ROUGIE                              9.70    6.00    GRAV    NLE          262   REGRAV+DRAINAGE               0.70    25.70-       1.07        0.86
119.02   CAYES -TORBECK                                     5.90    9.00    GRAV    DEPT         306   BICO                           1.08    25.50       1.70        1.36
11.01   LIMBE - PORT MARGOT                               7.40    6.00    GRAV    DEPT          150  REGRAV+DRAINAGE                0.27    23.30       0.57         0.46
109.03   AVIAJACMEL-CAYES.JACMEI.                        ,13.10   9.00    GRAV    DEPT           211   REGRAV+DRAINAGE               0.41    21.60        1.02        0.82
222.01   AVANT-POSTE LEOGANE-CARREFOUR DUFO                 2.40    7.30    BETON   NLE         1627   SLAB REPAIR                   0.19    21.60        04A(        0.32
244.01   JEREMIE - AEROPORTJEREMIE                          6.00    6.00    GRAV    PENE         179  REGRAV+DRAINAGF                0.21    20.00        0.44        0.35
118.02   CRF.KANS - CAMP-PERRIN                           14-90    7.00    GRAV    DEYI'        293   BICO                          1.37    18.90        4.30        3.44
118.01   CR1'. 4 CIIEMIS-CRF. KANS                          7.80    7.00    GRAV    DEPT         293  B31CO                          0.54    17.00        2.20        1.76
220.01   CAYES JACMEL - MARIG()T                            9.20    4.50    GRAV    DEPT         103  REGRAV+DRAINAGE                0.80     15.90       0.57        0.46
230.02   MASON - PORTSALUT                                  5.91    6.00    GRAV    DEPT         112   REGRAV+D)RAINAGE               0.04    14.60       0.45        (1.36
34.01   TR. ROUGE - lere INTERSECTION                     24.58    7.50    GRAV    PENE         100  R1'GRAV+DRAINAGE               0.11     13.00       1.94        1.55
TOTAL                                                       492.14                                 958
BITr = Asphalt concrete                        NLE = Nationale                       NPV = Net Present Value                                                                  ru
FIICO  = Double Surface treatmcnt              l)EPT = I)epartamentale               ERR = Economic Rate of Return                                                             I
GRAV  = Gravel                                 l'ENE = Penetration                   Al)T = Average Daily'l'raffic



- 45 -
Annex 2
Table A2.3
HAITI
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Scheduling of Consulting Services for Works Supervision
Route National 1 (RNI)
STEPS/ACTIVITIES                                DATES
RNI
TORS, Short list and invitation package to IDA                 April 12/96
IDAs review                                                    April 25/96
Invitation of consultants                                      April 1/96
Reception of proposals (30 days)                                May 1/96
Evaluation of proposals                                        May 31/96
IDA's no objection                                              June 9/96
Contract Negotiation and processing                            July 21/96
IDA's no objection                                             July 31/96
Supervisor work begins                                         Aug. 30/96
1:\wp51 khaiti\schedu1e sup



- 46 -
Annex 2
Table A2.4
HAITI
ROAD NIAENTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule for Rehabilitation Works
Route Nationale 1 Section Saint Marcs-Gonaives
STEPS/ACTIVITIES                               DATES
MTPTC Review of Standard IDA documents                           Mar. 31/95
(prequalification, bidding)
Publish call for prequalification in Development Business        Nov. 1/95
Receive prequalification Documents (45 days)                     Dec. 15/95
Process prequalification documents                               Jan. 31/96
Obtain IDAs no objection to prequalification process             Feb. 16/96
Send IDA final bidding documents                                 Apr. 26/96
IDA's no objection to documents                                  May 10/96
Invitation to prequalified contractors                           May 17/96
Reception of Bids (45 days)                                      July 1/96
Bid evaluation and request of no objection                       July 31/96
IDA's no objection                                               Aug. 15/96
Contract signing and processing                                  Sept. 30/96
Works begin                                                      Nov. 1/96
Work completion                                                  July 1999
I:\wp5 I \haitiOschedulewor



- 47 -                         An*  2
Table A2.5
Page I of 3
HAITI
Road Kaintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Urban Roads Rehabilitation - First Year Program
LOT I (To be Financed by IDA)
Length(m)   Cost(91)      Total Cost  Total Coat
($ US)      94 ($ US)    94 ($ US)
M.L. King      (En)     2880      711640.86    789921.35
Delmas 2       (En)      630      146996.29    163165.88
Quai           (En)      580      450730.00    500310.30
4090                               1453397.1
LOT II
Dalles         (Ad)     1350      342592.14    380730.00
Bolosse 4eme  (Ad)       650      130235.14    144561.00
Bolosse 2ame  (Ad)       410      187951.14    208680.00
Christophe    (En)       825      190220.01    211143.10
St Gerard      (En)      480      230315.31    255649.75
3715                               1200763.8
LOT III
St Martin      (En)     1270      357630.63    396970.00
Peuple         (Ad)      800      261135.86    289865.40
Poupelard      (Ad)     1280      409686.43    454752.00
Borgella       (Ad)       95       25127.57      27892.00
3445                               1169479.4
LOT IV (To be financed by IDA)
Lamartiniere  (En)      1060      238669.00      255376.00
Ch Sumner      (Ad)      575      179829.29      199611.30
Reuinion       (En)      900      649743.00      695225.00
2535                               1150212.3
Total 13.78 Km of which 5.1 Km are in adoquin               4973852.6



- 48 -
AnnSz 2
Table A2.5
Page 2 of 3
HAITI
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Urban Roads Rehabilitation - Second Year Program
LOT I
Length(m)   Cost(91)    Total Cost  Total Cost
($ US)      94 ($ US)   94 ($ US)
H.Truman       (En)     1825    1196215.71   1327780.00
1327780.0
LOT II
PAnamericaine (En)      1215      488295.71    542009.00
Panamericaine (En)      1730      448579.71    497924.00
2945                               1039933.0
LOT III
Delmas         (En)     2240    1393496.43   1546780.50
1546780.5
LOT IV
Tiremasse      (Ad)     1135      482124.29    535160.00
Dr Aubry       (En)      490      183581.79    203775.00
M.Ambroise    (En)       790      151352.00    168000.00
2415                                906935.0
Total 9.42 Km of which 1.13 Km are in adoquin              4821348.5



- 49 -
Annex 2
Table A2.5
Page 3 of 3
RAITI
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Urban Roads Rehabilitation - Third Year Program
LOT I
Length(m)   Cost 91)    Total Cost  Total Cost
($ US)      94 ($ US)   94 ($ US)
Delmas3l e 52 (En)       2460    1798583.14   1996427.10
1996427.1
LOT II
Delmas 18      (En)       350      78191.00      86792.00
Pean           (En)       525     112332.00    124688.00
Sans Fil       (En)       670     178838.14    198510.00
Achille\Logan (Ad)        850      330601.29    366967.40
2395                                776957.4
LOT III
Magasin etat  (En)       1525      742376.71    824038.50
Delmas 48\60  (En)       1340      290418.00    322364.00
2865                                1146402.5
Total 8.00 Km of which 0.85 Km are in adoquin                3919787.0



- 50 -
Annex 2
Table A2 6
HAITI
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Port-au-Prince Rehabilitation Program
Road         Type of   Length         cost of yearly program            Finance
section      pa-ment                          (Us $ '000)               Source
year 1     year 2       year 3
M.L. King      (AC)     2880         790                                 IDA
Delas 2       (AC)      630         163                                 IDA
Quai           (AC)      580         500                                 IDA
Dalls          (P )     1350         381                                 Others
Holosse 4m_  (P )        650         145                                 Others
Rolosse 2ome  (P )       410         209                                 Others
Chriatophe    (AC)       825         211                                Others
Et Gerard      (AC)      480         256                                Others
St Martin      (AC)     1270         397                                Others
Peupl*         (P )      800         290                                 Others
Poupelard      (P )     1280         455                                 Others
Norgella       (P )       95          28                                 Others
Lmaartin&re  (AC)       1060         255                                 IDA
Ch Sumner      (P )      575         200                                 IDA
ReuLnion       (AC)      900         695                                 IDA
H.Truman       (AC)     1825                     1325                    Others
Panamericaine (AC)      1215                      542                    IDA
Panamericaine (AC)      1730                      498                    IDA
Delmas         (AC)     2240                     1547                   IDA
Tiremasse      (P )     1135                      535                    Others
Dr Aubry       (AC)      490                      204                    Others
N.Anbroise    (AC)       790                      168                    Others
Delaas3l 6 52 (AC)      2460                               1997          IDA
Dolais 18      (AC)      350                                 *7          Others
Pean           (AC)      525                                125          Others
Sans Fil       (AC)      670                                199          Others
Achille\Logan (P )       850                                367          Others
Magasin etat  (AC)      1525                                824          Others
Del as 48\60  (AC)      1340                                322          Others
Total cost                          4974         4822      3920
Total Length(a)        30930       13785         9425      7720
P i pavers (adoquins)
AC: Asphalt Concrete



-1              Annex 2
Fig. A2.1
*0
WI
a        I  I   I   I    I  I I   I 1 11
n . tIIIII   r            tT
4'9. _   r r --- - -I ---
*t IlTItt                   T
iT. II TT111      
aa_   -t1--- - - - 
-I.1  - .-.- ---   ---
i~ E Ufii   1 E111!g I  



3m" COMPONENT
CALEIFUU OF ACTIVITIES
Zd Towr EMIMILITATIal PIECTS
-#IprfL 95                                                                                                      Juiry 97-
TASKS        pio I  ot2  ft 3 MmIf  4m lb  5of  6 lb  7  Mob 3  Mo 9  MolOMoll  MI?b 12 If13 PMo14 Mft 1   f 1o6 Mo7iT  MisMno191 IND2O IND2i
REV/APO OF LOT                                                                   
i        ~~~PRES. OF PR5OPO_                  _=SA=                          ==LS                    _     _                =    =     =  
______________ __             __                                                    ____         _                           - _         -
APWRAL BY IDA/IDS                                                            ._                                                                  v
DEINAESTMTSIIII                                      m X4 X   
APP*OVAL By IDIIS=TPTC                          =     =      ==                =                              -     
PitEP~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ OFOW                                                      D
ID D
to N
rvr'
CIVIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



CALEIS OF ACTIVITIES
3rd Towr RENILITATIOU PROJECTS
ov^L"r~~w9 IDNS            =-- _   -=                                   -    
TASK               3. I NO2   3o3 3 I.4   3. 5  I3mb        p N.    MD6   .lb9   lb10  ft 11  3o12I  No1   3. Io14  No.15 iNfl63.lTI3.13.l9Uio I OVNo 2  tZlIno  NZ13
PREV/APPI. OF LoI
BY NDA/IDU
APYWOAL BY IDA=I=-
ISStf LOI
PIES. OF PROPIIALS
PROPOSAL EVALIMYATI_
APPICWIAL BY IDA/1OU
DESIGN STARTS
OESIGW Wm
APRPIWAL BY WTPTC
PREP OF BIDDING DOE
APPI%MAL BY IDA/IDB
XItEIIEUT MOT I CE
PREP/PRES. OF BIDS
sID EVALUATION
APPIMWAL BY IDA/1OU
P@tIOR RtEV CON.DOCE.
NIBILIZAT IO
CIVIL WEKS
I L4



- 54 -
Annex 2
Figure A2.4
HAITI
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Routine Maintenance of Paved Roads by Contract
Calendar of Activities - Urban Component
March 95                               October 95-
TASKS          MDl  N 32  Mo 3  No 4   o0 5  No 6  No 7  Ne a
REVISION or
DIDDING DOCS.
PROCUREMEN
NOTICS
INVENTORY
NTPTC
xsnsu or
BIDDING DOCS.
UVAL/APPROVAL
O0 BIDS
CONTNACT
AWARD
INVENTORY BY
CONSULTANTS
TA TO EEL? ORG.
LOCAL CONTRTORS
CIVIL
WORKS



- 55 -
Annex 2
Figure A2.5
HAITI
Road Xaintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Sidewalk, Curb, Gutter and Drainage Rehabilitation by Contract
Calendar of Activities - Urban Component
March 95                                   Octobor 95-
TAuKS          _      N2 No2   H3   No 4   No 5    MO    N No 7  No a
REV. OF SUEPRO
JUCTI PACKAGING
PROCUREMENT
NOTICE
PREP/REVIEW OF
NODSL CONTRACTS
INVENTORY
ISSUE Or BIDDING
DOCUMENTS
EVALUATION /
APPROVAL OF BIDS
CONTRACT
AWARD
INVENTORY
bY CONnSULANTS
CIVIL
WORKS



tLtBAN COWCUEET
TECHNICAL ASSISTAUC
CALEIDM OF ACTIVITIES
,Nirch 95                                                                                 N9Y
TASKS          Pro   ilNo 21KG   31no  4|eo   6INo  6lbG   7  o a Bs|    9 IND 101N. 11lKo 121Ko 131G  14,
Firal Deal ui CMP/SAfE`
Fital Defun_
Fomtfen of txocal contractors - cold mx patchi
visits                                                                -                                 z  i __
Smfners w1
recinuhwtimus                                                                                                         -
Tr fffi Nmter Pt  for Port-0'Prince
Di                   -     -      --                           -              -              -     -
preliminary proposals                         -    _                 -      -       -      -      -             -     -
FinaL Ptun
_        _      _     _     -               I                        -       -      -                                  -   -    
&sqxrvisian of fiml desin for 15K. of wt roa             proceu  fr     .--'rv-an of morks
supervisionI                                                     I                                    
C D
_ . 3
ID 
x
C'



- 57 -
Table A2.7
Page 1 of 2
ARAITI
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
PORT-AU-PRINCE PROGRAM
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
RUES                           ERR             Total            Investment          M Maintenance             VOC                     Traffic
I          I         NPV                Cost                Cost                Savings              Congestion Cost
I           I    USS  1000           US$ 1000             US$ 1000      1    USS 1000          1          USS  1000
1. Des Dalles                            27              294                (204)      |       (12)         |         602          I                (92)
2. Legrand                                4              (20)                (13)      I       (7)           |          12                          (72)
3. Achille                               33              344                (199)              (6)                     592                          (43)
'. Paul VI                          I    52      I        434                (147)      I       (16)                   739         I               (112)
S. St Martin                        1    23    1         397 7              (232)              (12)                    I 31                        (120)
[elmas 2                                96              790                 (92)              (13)                  1.042                         (147)
7. Sins Fil                             143            1.707       I        (143,              ( ()                 2.002                          (141)
.w. Pean                        |    45              39'                   W                                       540                          (90)
.D1 i   as  18                           20 1             63                 (70)              ;3)                     193                          (57)
iO.  lirpmasse                       |    12    I            6               (325)      1       (10)          I         393         1(33)
1i. MN,. Guilloux                    |    37            1.106       1        (630)              (40)         |       2.131                          (355)
1l;  Gu Quai                         I    13    1            3               (321)      I       (12)          I         391                          (33)
i3. Magasin de l'Etat                     19              199                (304)      |       (31)          I         834         I               (120)
i4. De lEnterrement                  |    44 4            410       I        (173)              (26)                    761         l               (152)
.u Peuple                         I    '9 1             397      1          (83)                7)                                1                (55)
ic. De la Reunion                    I    15               85       1        (339)      |       (3)           |         529         |                (95)
i ),. Iagloire Ambroise              |    33     I        585  1             (270)      |       (14)          |      1.025          I               (153)
.8. Lamartiniere                          36              654       1        (194)              (10)                 1.117                          (249)
Charles Summer                  |    21      |        113                (139)      I       (5)                    306                          (47)
'G. Martin Luther King               I    31    I          105      I         (101)      |       (15)         I         343         j               (119)
:   Martin Luther King               I    74      1     2.105       1         (333)              (44)         |       2.995                         (494)
2Z. [n  Aubry                             94              639                  (37)      I       (10)                   840         |               (104)
23. St Honore                        |    59      I       745       1         (112)      I       (3)          1       1.022                         (137)
2!. Alix Roy                         I    17    1          129                (302)      1       (10)         I         539         I                (95)
'5. Jean Paul II                     j    63     1      1.173                (272)       1       (33)         |       1.778                         (293)
6. DO Centre                              10 l            (14)     1         (115)              (3)          I         137                           (30)
27.  ;iury  Bathier                  |    20                12      1          (36)                9 (9)      I           53         I                (11)
Z3. Av. Poupelard                       1 i6                96      I         (231)      |       (12)                   500                         (111)
9. Ergelia                          1    26                23      I          (13)              ( 1)                     56                           (9)
30. Ay. Christophe                         32     |         43                (274)      1       (34)         1         813                         (152)
31. xv. Bolosse .                          0 G              13      j          (33)      I       (10)         j          56                          (11)
32. Jo'seph Janvier                  1    25               191               1(44)       I       (7)                    404                           (52)
33. Chareron                         |    27               192                (136)                7)                   395                           (51)
3i. 5?s Fronts Forts                 |    8.    1          136                (32)       j         7)                   237          I                (32)
33. (~sars                              1  7               (17!                (31)0              (3)                     44         1                 (7)
36. Mecajoux                             11 1                3)                (42) 1            (7)          1           53         1                 (7)
37. Capois                           |    59     |        952       1         (224)      |       (32)         |       1.508          |              (300)
38. Oiswald Durand                   I    61      1     1.356                 (365)      I       (21)         I       1.987                          (245)
Y9. St Gerard                        1 34 1               283                 (161)     1        (4)          i         437                           (37)
4b;. C.effrard                        1 24 1                41                (62)       j       (4            j         134                          (27)
41. F3vke                                  5   1            31      1         (9)        |       (2)          1           5'         |                (11)
42  Montalais                        |    69               i85       1        (31)               (11)          1         283         j                (57)
4B. Av.Bolosse IV                         20                44      |         (36)       I       (6)                    136          j                 (0)
_ _                                I           JII                                           _1_I-



58   -Table  A2.7
Page 2 of 2
HAITI
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
PORT-AU-PRINCE PROGRAM
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
,                ,--                ,                -r                                                   -
I           |      Total          Investment         Maintenance              VOC                    Traffic             I
RUES                         ERR              NPV              Cost               Cost        |      Savings             Congestion Cost
_        _              I  -H                      +-                    I                  +                       W                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II 
:   Alerte                           35               15                (34)     I        (9)        |          81                        ( (23)
*5. lies Pucelles                       30              72                (39)              (2)                   133        I               i20)
46. Av. Bolosse 11                      14               13              (127)              (4)                   144                         (0)
47. Delmas 4B - 60                      35             528               (344)             (28)                1.124                        (274)
4t.  Deimas 10 - 31                    9g         1 .023                 (875)             (50)                9.068                     (i.l120)
49. Delas 31 - 52                      42           2.883      I      (1.313)     I       (51)                5.303                     (1.056)
50. Delmas 52 - Petion-Ville            48    1      2.821             (1.001)             (46)                4.829                       (961)
. Av. John Brown (Lalue)    1    61    |             1.775              (384)       |      (46)        I       2.753           |           (543)
52. Pana.6ricaine 11                    64           1.397               (274)             (36)         I      2.131         j              (424)
53. Panamericaine                  1    47    f        856               (318)             (25)                1.497         t              (298)
54. Harry Truman                        23             690             (1.072)             (38)         |      2.248                        (448)
Total                          40         34.867             13.349              881                 58.864                      9.767             I
N.B.   NPV (US $080)



- 59 -
Annex 2
Table A2. 8
Page I of 2
HAITI
Road Naintenance and Rehabilitation Project
Periodic Xaintenance Program - First Year Roads
LENGTH       AREA       LENGTH (m)
CODE           ROAD                 (m)           (m2)     TO RESURFACE
107   Rue Bonn- Foi                  920.00      7150.00       550.00
110   Rue dos Miracles              1075.00     4400.00        400.00
111   Rue de la Libert6              655.00     3500.00        500.00
103   Mgr Guilloux                   550.00      6050.00       550.00
100   Rue de la Republique           550.00      7500.00       550.00
037   Rue Capoic                    1580.00      9000.00       900.00
038   O.Durand                      1030.00      2400.00       400.00
027   Rue st-Honore                  210.00      2100.00       210.00
101   Rue St Cyr                     250.00      1500.00       250.00
102   Rue Ducoste                    250.00      1200.00       250.00
139   Rue Magny                      550.00      5500.00       550.00
108   Rue Pave-                     1160.00      6600.00       550.00
141   Rue Lamnurre(P-au-P)           540.00      3200.00       400.00
Periodic  Xaintenance Program - Second Year Roads
LENGTH        AREA       LENGTH (m)
CODE             ROAD                (m)            (m2)    RESURFACE
111   Rue Canap4 vert (I)           2500.00       4000.00      550.00
094   Rue Fernand                    465.00       3720.00      465.00
123   Rue RiviAre                    320.00       2000.00      320.00
057   Rue Pacot                    1.650.00       4000.00      800.00
096   Rue Faustin ler                520.00       3500.00      520.00
090   Rue Berne                      310.00       2400.00      310.00
109   Rue Jn Paul II                 595.00       4165.00      500.00
087   Rue Jeremis lore               280.00       1600.00      280.00
Rue Causeus                    460.00       3000.00      460.00
093   Rue du travail 3eme            410.00       2800.00      410.00



- 60 -
Annez 2
Table A2.U
Page 2 of 2
URBAN COMPONENT
PERIODIC XAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Third Year Roads
LENGTH         AREA        LENGTH (m)
CODE             ROAD                 (mn)         (m2)       TO RESURFACE
129   Rue raubert (Pv)                890.00      5600.00       890.00
128   Rue A.Holly                   2.020.00      7000.00      1000.00
065   Rue cameau                      715.00      2400.00       600.00
136   Ruo Fort National             1.050.00      4000.00       500.00
076   Rue  waag                       550.00      3200.00       550.00
146   Delmas 31                     1.400.00      5600.00       800.00
143   Dolmna  19                      550.00      4500.00       550.00
156   Rue Louverture (PV)             960.00      4000.00       500.00
147   Rue Lamarre (PV)                700.00      4800.00       600.00
073   Rue Dehoux                      480.00      4800.00       480.00



- 61 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 17
HAITI
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance. Traininig, Studies and
Instituitionial Suppoit to the MinisLry
A.    Technical Assistance
L     Intercity Prograii. (US$2.4 million)
recriitment of a consultant team for three years to strengtihen the road planning
Uilit (I engineer ancl I econoimist) and the works supervision unit (3 engineers);
of a full time professionial accouLitanit lor thiee years; and of three man month of
a local expert to review the bidding documilenits and specifications. (US$800,000).
fisnanicinig of aniinual reviews for a (letailed network conidition inventory by a
consulting firm  in year two: traffic surveys; and annual audits.  The road
conditionis inventory and the traffic survey in year 3 will be carried out by
administrationi staff (US$100,000).
financing of a twinning arrang_ement with a well-stnrctured road department of a
developed country to support the establishlinenit of the new Road Department and
provide on-the-job training both in Haiti and( abroad. The program provides for
about 60 person-mionitlhs of expatriate assistance in the following areas:
long-ternm mainitenanice expert (12 person-months) to review and establish
appropriate planning, programmining, budget, supervision and monitoring
procedUres ancl to manage the twinn1ing prograin;
sshort-termil specialized assistance (48 person-inonths over three years) in
road planninig mo(del and procedures. work programming, review  of
mainiteniance standards and contractual arrangeinenlts for works by
conitracts  suplervision  procedures and follow-up, cost-accouniting, and
support and training to tile regional road departinents.



- 62 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 17
-     training, per diem, fellowships and travel abroad of Haitian personnel in
the road department of the receiving country.
-     salaries of the expatriate staff will be financed by bilateral assistance
(US$600,000). Travel costs, per diem, possibly the cost of the long term
expert, and all the costs of Haitian staff will be financed by the project.
(US$800,000).
financing of office equipment and support. a Provision has been included to finance
minimum office equipment, such as 3-4 microcomputers, software, printers, facsimile
machine, etc. supervision vehicles are included in the equipment category.
(US$100,000).
2.    Port-au-Prince Program (US$700,000)
recruitment of consulting team. The project provides for the recruitment of a
full-time professional accountant, and short-term expertise for the review of
maintenance standards and bidding documents. A local supervision team (3
engineers) will also be recruited to supervise simple road rehabilitation (such as
roads paved with adoquins) as well as the Maintenance Program; their cost is
included under the supervision category (see below) (US$150,000).
financing of about 18 person-months of short-term  specialized expatriate
assistance in planning and programming of the annual road programs, work
supervision and training, cost accounting, and maintenance techniques and
standards, including salaries, per diem and trips (US$350,000). No twinning
arrangements have been identified for this component at this stage.
office support, training of Haitian staff and planning studies for coordination of
works with other utilities, such as CAMEP (US$200,000).
3.    Labor-Intensive Maintenance by Communities and Small Contractors. (US$800,000).
a small centralized unit for labor-intensive maintenance by communities will be
created within the Road Department, with decentralized offices covering one or
two regional departments. The function of the central unit will be to structure
centralized planning, programming, monitoring and budget and payment
procedures for village community works. The unit will also ensure appropriate
supervision of works quality, training of regional staff and direct payments to the
village communities. The project provides for 24 person-months of specialized
expatriate assistance in labor-intensive techniques, about 48 person-months of
local expertise, and for appropriate support to the regional offices. In addition,



- 63 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 17
the experts will work with the Port-au-Prince road maintenance unit to set-up
appropriate procedures for labor-intensive works by neighboring communities and
small contractors. This component will be financed by UNDP and executed by
ILO (US$800,000).
B.    Works Supervision and Engineering Studies.
the provision for works supervision has been included under the civil works
category. On the intercity network, all rehabilitation works will be supervised
by specialized engineering firms. Based on past experience and a detailed review
of work requirements, the cost of supervision activities for this type of works has
been estimated at about 10% of the corresponding civil works cost, including
provision for soil and materials testing.  Tests will be performed by the
supervision firms, utilizing their own equipment; the National Materials
Laboratory (LNBTP) will be recruited by the Administration to provide
appropriate quality review during work implementation. Routine Maintenance
contracts and works by force account executed by the Ministry's regional
departments will be supervised by a team from the central Road Department,
assisted by local consultants.
works supervision at Port-au-Prince has been estimated at about 6% of the cost
of corresponding civil works. For simple works (such as maintenance contracts),
works supervision will be performed by administration staff assisted by a team
of local consultants. This arrangement was tested in a pilot maintenance program
and found satisfactory. For more complex works, however, such as street
rehabilitation, external supervision firms will be retrained.
the detailed engineering studies for the yearly programs are estimated to cost
about US$600,000 for the intercity network, and about US$300,000 for Port-au-
Prince. Detailed engineering studies covering about 50% of the program are
being completed under PPF financing; the funds included in the project should be
sufficient to cover the remaining 50% of the program and to provide some
flexibility to study other priority roads. That provision also includes appropriate
soil and materials testing by the LNBTP.
C.    Transport Studies.
Traffic Master Plan for Port-au-Prince. (US$600,000)
The proposed TORs for the study are attached. It is estimated that the study will
require about 54 person-months of an international-level team will comprise two
traffic engineers and transport planner, a transport economist, a road engineer,



- 64
Annex 3
Page 4 of 17
an  institutional specialist, a public transport specialist and  an  inventory
coordinator. Provision is also included for limited O/D surveys and prefeasibility
stu(dies of selected traffic corridors and priority intersectionis.
Roadi Fundtl)Imginentation (US$300,00()
A feasibility study to set up the Road Maintenance Fund is being financed through
on-going credits. The provision under the project inclides expatriate assistance
of a road fund specialist and a financial analyst for about 6 months each to help
set-up the operating and monitorinig procedures of the Fund, as well as follow-up
trips of short durationi and( the cost of the first external audit of the Fund.
Transoort Master Platn and Transport Policies (US$800,000)
The TORs tor the study are attached. The study will require various short-term
experts (about 3 to 4 person-milonithis), under the coordination of a broad transport
ecoliolnlist, iii thie following areas: port operations specialist: coastal shipping
specialist; transport reguilatory framiewrork; traffic safety; public transportation;
airport specialist: and demilanJd forecasting. Ttic financing provision also includes
support by a local consulting team, the preparation of a Transport Sector Strategy
and Investnimen Plan and prefeasihility studies for selected investiments.
Promotion of Local Constiiction Enterprises and Pretfeasibility Studv of an
Equipment Renital Scheme (US$1 00,000)
Thle TORs for- the study are attached. The finanicing provision includes a detailed
survey  of the  local conistruction  sector and abouit 3 person-mzoliths of a
construction industry specialist
D.    Institutional Support to the Ministry
Environmental Unit andt Studies. (US$800,000)
The project includILes suipport to create an environimilental unit to oversee
environimlsenital impacts in all tlie sectors tinder the Ministry's responsibility. The
project woUld finance about 12 person-mionths of specialized expatriate expertise
in various environmiental fields, to review  regulations, procedures, impact
assessments aind enforceinenit measures; office equipment and vehicles; and
training of Haitian staff abroad (US$500.000). In addition, a provision has been
included for detailed environimenital reviews of selected watersheds affecting road
infrastructure (US$300,000).



- 65 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 17
Procurement Procedures (US$1,400,000)
Procurement procedures in the Ministry, and in the various parastatals reporting
to the Ministry, are very weak and haphazard, resulting in substantial delays,
penalties and increased contract costs.  In addition, the project will greatly
increase the procurement workload of the Ministry as most rehabilitation and
maintenance works, and most engineering and supervision activities, will be
carried out by contract. The project includes assistance to review and modernize
the whole procurement process and procedures of the Ministry and to assist
directly in bidding documentation, selection procedures and contract awards. It
includes about 18 to 20 man-months of resident expatriate assistance of a
procurement expert; about 24 to 30 man-months of a pool of specialized
expatriate expertise as required; about 96 man-months of local procurement
experts during a two-year period; administrative and office support; and provision
for a detailed review of the procurement procedures of the Ministry, including
recommendations for setting-up an appropriate system for prequalification of local
enterprises, performance evaluation, and contracting arrangements for small and
medium firms. This component of the project will be executed by OPS or a
specialized procurement firm.
Financial and Budget Procedures (US$1,000,000)
The institutional review of the Ministry carried out as part of project preparation
activities has pointed out major deficiencies in budgeting, financial procedures
and internal controls. The Ministry is keen to implement the needed changes and
modernize its whole management system. The project includes about 24 man-
months of expatriate assistance to provide a detailed diagnostic of financial,
accounting, auditing and budget procedures, establish new procedures and provide
the appropriate training to a core accounting and financial staff within the
Ministry. It also includes about 96 man-months of local financial consultants for
a two-year period and provision of necessary office equipment to modernize
financial systems within the whole Ministry. This component would be carried
out by a reputable financial firm, preferably in association with a local firm or
individual financial analysts and accounts.
E.    Contingencies
The budgets for the above studies are based on detailed working notes available in the
project file. In general, an average cost of US$15,000 per person-month has been used to
calculate the cost of expatriate assistance (average between individual consultants and consulting
firms), and of US$3,500 - 4,000 per person-month for local consultants, including per diem
when in the field. An average of US$2,000 has been used for international round-trips, and of



- 66 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 17
US$120/day for per diem of expatriate staff in Haiti. These budgets are, however, tentative and
should be used as reference only. Contingencies have been included at US$2,400,000.
F.   Financing Plan
The financing plan for this component is as follows (US$ million):
IDA   IDB  Bilat  Total
TA intercity network          1.8   0.2           2.0
(excluding twinning
arrangements)
TA Port-au-Prince                    0.7          0.7
TA Communities                0.8                 0.8
Supervision Intercity         1.5   1.5           3.0
P-au-P                      0.7          0.7
Engineering Intercity         0.6                 0.6
Engineering P-au-P                   0.3          0.3
Traffic Master Plan           0.9                 0.9
Road Fund Implementation      0.3                 0.3
Transport Master Plan                0.8          0.8
Promotion Local Enterprises          0.1          0.1
Environmental Unit & Studies         0.8          0.8
Procurement Procedures        1.4                 1.4
Financial & Budget
Procedures                    1.0   1.0
Training (including           0.2   0.5   0.4   1.1
twinning arrangements)
Contingencies                 0.6   1.1  0.4    0.6
Total                         8.1   7.7  0.4   14.1
(including provision for works supervision
and detailed engineering studies).



- 67 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 17
TRAFFIC MASTER PLAN FOR PORT-AU-PRINCE
TERMS OF REFERENCE, OUTLINE
Objectives
The objectives of the proposed Traffic Master Plan (TMP) for the Port-au-Prince Metropolitan
Area's (PAPMA) four municipalities (Port-au-Prince, Petion-ville, Delmas and Carrefour) are
to:
(1)   define a short- and medium-term action plan for improving the regulatory and
operational framework of public transport in the study area;
(2)   develop a short- and medium-term plan of low-cost high-impact transport system
management measures aiming at optimizing road infrastructure use and facilitating
the movement of people rather than vehicles;
(3)   propose improvements to the existing institutional arrangements for managing
urban transport in the PAPMA; and
(4)   prepare a medium-term plan of road infrastructure investments necessary to
improve traffic flows in the PAPMA.
Scope of work
Consultants will be retained to carry out:
I .    Diagnosis (4 months, 24 person-months plus technical support for inventory and surveys):
(i)    review overall transport demand; conduct traffic counts for both motorized and
non-motorized traffic (including pedestrians) on the main road corridors and
limited O/D surveys on a sample basis. Use existing information from the 1988
Urban Development Plan, developed during the preparation of the Road
Maintenance Project and the updated Urban Development Plan, financed by IDB.
Assess the demand for transport for motorized and non-motorized traffic the
urban and transit traffic. This is not a demand modelling exercise, the objective
of this phase is to get an accurate picture of existing traffic volumes, patterns of
traffic flow, and infrastructure capacity.



- 68 -
Annex 3
Page 8 of 17
(ii)     identify main bottlenecks to traffic flows, such as location, function and capacity
of corridors, intersections, markets, street merchants, schools, terminals and,
possibly, other relevant characteristics of the existing road network, such as
vehicle/pedestrian interactions and friction. The analysis of this interaction will
be a key feature of this diagnosis.  PAPMA  presents very high levels of
pedestrian traffic along many of its relatively narrow  streets.  The resulting
vehicle/pedestrian conflicts are compounded by the narrow or lack of sidewalks
and right-of-way encroachment by informal street vendors.
(iii)     review public transport policies, regulation (including safety requirements and
inspection), organization and operation.
(iv)      assess the institutional setup for planning and regulating urban transport within
MTPTC, the municipalities, the Road Traffic Department (Service de Control de
la Circulation de Vehicules), etc.
2.    Review of preliminary recommendations by the Government (2 months, 12 person-
months): for this review, the Consultants will prepare an outline of the traffic master plan,
including:
(i)      a plan of actions in the following areas:
-   investments on corridors, intersections, including signage and signaling, etc.
The Consultants will propose various options whenever major investments are
required.
-   traffic management measures and policies such as one-way streets, reversible
lanes, signaling and arterial signal coordination, channelizations, provision
of off-street parking, parking pricing, restriction and enforcement, busways,
bus lanes, etc.   These measures may include new  strategies or the
improvement of existing ineffective strategies, such as enforcing right-of-way
usage restrictions, parking restrictions, etc.
(ii)     recommendations for an appropriate institutional setup and proposals for
institutional support to improve the planning, implementation and enforcement
capabilities of the responsible agencies.
3.    Detailed Traffic Master Plan (3 months, 18 person-months), including short- and
medium-term actions (and an estimation of the related costs) regarding:
-   urban  investments, including  economic, financial and  environmental
(including a relocation plan, if applicable) prefeasibility studies of the major



- 69 -
Annex 3
Page 9 of 17
road investments.
- traffic management measures, including a detailed implementation plan.
the promotion of public transportation.
the necessary institutional support to the sector.



- 70 -
Annex 3
Page 10 of 17
TRANSPORT MASTER PLAN STUDY AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TO THE TRANSPORT DIRECTORATE
TERMS OF REFERENCE, OUTLINE
The objectives are to (i) prepare a 5-year transport investment program for the country; (ii) set
up a transport policy and regulatory framework for all transport modes; and (iii) to support the
restructuring and new functions of the new Transport Directorate.
I1.    Diagnosis (3 months):
Review in close coordination with the local counterpart team that will be trained to carry
out sector reviews and planning on an annual basis in the new Transport Directorate, the
following:
(i)     international and local traffic flows, patterns and technologies; present and
projected international, national and regional transport demand; existing
infrastructure; and survey of transport operators (including organization,
operation, financial capacity, cost recovery, etc.). This diagnosis will cover the
following modes: international ports, coastal shipping, airports, road transport
(including roads, bridges and fords). The analysis of the road transport will be
coordinated with the IDB Rural Road Project, the port-au-Prince Traffic Master
Plan and MTPTC road maintenance program.
(ii)    the necessary institutioned setup for transport planning and regulations.
2.    Review by the Government of Preliminary Proposals (1-2 months) including:
-     a preliminary 5-year investment program, including options to open access to
enclosed regions.
recommendations on sector and regulatory policies, including safety, vehicle/boat
inspection, customs, public transport, etc.
recommendations for the institutional support for the planning and regulatory
functions of the new Transport Directorate.



- 71 -
Annex 3
Page 11 of 17
3.    Detailed Transport Master Plan (3 months), including:
-     a 5-year transport investment plan, with prefeasibility studies on priority
investments.
-     a detailed transport policy and regulatory framework for each transportation
mode.
The institutional setup necessary to implement the above within the new Transport
Directorate will be finalized and detailed TORs for the main functions will be prepared
(including staff, logistic support and annual budget). In particular, the planning unit should be
operational, based on the training provided to the local counterpart team. In order to support
this unit and enable it to update the investment program annually, a manual will be prepared
comprising the necessary planning tools (based on simple planning models); the statistical data
gathered; and the recommended procedures for annual updating.



- 72 -
Annex 3
Page 12 of 17
STUDY ON THE PROMOTION OF LOCAL
ENTERPRISES AND THE SETTING UP OF
EQUIIPMENT RENTAL AGENCY
TERMS OF REFERENCE, OUTLINE
The objectives are to foster the participation of local firms in the proposed and future
infrastructure projects. In particular, the study will make short-term proposals to enable small
and medium contractors to have access to the necessary road equipment.
1.    Detailed diagnosis of the local construction sector, and recommendations (1.5 months):
Based on the survey of the Haitian construction firms financed by IDB/UNDP in October
1990, a detailed review of the obstacles faced by the small-medium local construction firms and
an assessment o their present and expected capacity (by sub-sector, size, etc.), would be carried
out by specialized consultants.
Detailed short- and medium.-term recommendations will be proposed to reduce these
obstacles. To rapidly implement appropriate measures, agreements will be reached on the
proposed recommendations and a detailed action plan with:
-     the administration,
-     the main external financing agencies,
-     the local enterprises and their representatives body,
-     the local banks.
2.    Setup of a equipment rental scheme (1.5 months):
(i)    the needs of small and medium local firms for construction equipment will be
assessed, together with their capacity to buy and/or rent equipment, in the context
of the results of the above survey and the volume of road rehabilitation and
maintenance works to be carried out during the execution of the proposed five-
year program and thereafter.
(ii)    a review of the existing equipment facilities will be made in Haiti, the Dominican
Republic, and in Florida where the main supplier are located.
(iii)    based on the demand/supply review and the local capacity to rent equipment, a
rental scheme will be proposed, including its organization (semi-public or private,
organization chart, staff requirements, etc.); its operation (type and cost of the
equipment pool to be purchased, equipment maintenance and rental prices, etc.),
as well as issues concerning the start-up of the agency (location, financial



- 73 -
Annex 3
Page 13 of 17
arrangements, legal actions, recruitment of qualified staff, etc.).
The proposed scheme will be agreed with the Government and detailed TORs will be
prepared for the initial assistance to the rental agency. If required by the Government, external
financing will also be sought.



- 74 -
Annex 3
Page 14 of 17
HAITI
PROPOSED ROADS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Maintenance Financing Study
Outline Terms of Reference
Objective
To develop a financing mechanism to ensure reliable and adequate funding for road
administration and maintenance in Haiti.
Tasks
Phase 1: Conceptual Framework
(a)   review the past and current experience with the financing of road administration
and maintenance in Haiti and propose a conceptual framework for solving the
problem, including, but not limited to, establishing a special financing mechanism
for road administration and maintenance;
(b)   assist the MTPTC in presenting the framework to the decision- makers; and
(c)   propose and agree with MTPTC on modifications to the terms of reference for
Phase 2 of the study;
Phase 2: Determination of Financing Scheme
(a)   project the levels of road administration, routine and periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation costs for the period 1996 to 2006;
(b)   review existing road user charges, i.e. receipts from road users which have no
parallel in the general taxation regime and the incidence of which is generally
proportional to the extent of their use of the road network, e.g. road tolls, fuel
surcharge, annual vehicle licensing fees. The Consultant will, to the extent
possible, use available information from existing road-user charge studies in
Haiti;
(c)   review the efficiency of road-user charge collection and propose improvements,
including ways to avoid diversion;
(d)   analyze the alternative ways of financing the costs, determined from (a) above,
from the user charges in (b) above, either separately or combined in various



- 75 -
Annex 3
Page 15 of 17
proportions and recommend the various feasible options for a financing scheme,
including how to handle inflation, annual variation of costs, devaluation etc.;
(e)   assess the incidence of the financing scheme on transport costs and the road users'
capacity to pay for the scheme; and
(f)   analyze the costs and benefits of adequate road maintenance to the society as a
whole and to individual classes of road users using a life-cycle type analysis for
representative road sections.
Phase 3: The Financing Mechanism and Implementation
(a)   analyze alternative forms or mechanisms for the financing scheme and ways of
channeling the funds to the mechanism and recommend the most appropriate
mechanism for Haiti;
(b)   analyze different approaches to administering the financing mechanism, including
auditing of accounts to ensure proper use of funds, the interest of road users and
adequate accountability of MTPTC for expenditures from the mechanism;
(c)   determine the necessary legal instruments to ensure the protection of the funds
from political decisions and diversion to other activities and draft the
corresponding laws.
(d)   recommend a strategy, e.g. a publicity campaign, to make the scheme acceptable
to decision-makers and to road users.
Products and Reports
Reports
(a)   An Inception Report, 2 weeks after the start of the study, detailing the
Consultant's work program for the start of the study and any proposed
modifications to the Consultant's technical proposal;
(b)   A First Interim Report, 2 months after the start of the study, detailing the
conceptual framework, the views of prospective decision makers and modified
terms of reference based on discussions with MTPTC;
(c)   Second Interim Report, 2 months after the acceptance by MTPTC of the
modified terms of reference, detailing the findings and conclusions of Phase 2 of
the study;



- 76 -
Annex 3
Page 16 of 17
(d)   Third Interim Report, 2 months after the receipt of comments from MTPTC on
the Second Interim Report, detailing the conclusions of Phase 3 of the study;
(e)   A Draft Final Report, 1 month after the recept of comments on the Third
Interim Report, detailing the findingd, conclusions and recommendations of the
study;
(f)   A Final Report, 2 weeks after the receipt of the comments on the Draft Final
Report, taking into consideration MTPTC's comments on the Draft Final Report.
Products
(a)   A Road Maintenance Financing Scheme;
(b)   A Road Maintenance Financing Mechanism
(c)   An administrative structure for the Financing Mechanism; and
(d)   Draft law for the Financing Mechanism.
ManpOwer Reuirements. 15 months total of which: Transport Economists/Planners-8
months; Highway Engineers-4 months; Lawyer-I month; Publicity/Public Relations
Expert-I month, Taxation Expert (1 month).



- 77  -                                   Annex 3
Page 17 of 17
HAITI
ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Training for MTPTC Staff
Staff to be Trained by Type of Training
TYPE OF                  DIRECTION               DIRECTION            DIRECTION
TRAINING                   GENERAL                    DE                    DE
& OTHERS             TRANSPORTS            TRAVAUX
PUBLIC
Long-Term Overseas Training (Duration of more than 2 months)
Highways Management                       4                       4                     2
Contract Management                        1                      3                     3
Pavement Management                       2                       2                     2
Maintenance Management                     1                      4                     3
Transport Economist                        I                      I
HDM III                                   6                       4                     4
Highways Safety                           2                       2                     2
Environment and Highways                  3                       2                     2
Computer Applications                     6                       4                     4
Training Techniques                       3
Short-Term Overseas Training (Less than 2 months Duration)
Traffic Engineering/ Transport            2                       2                     2
Planning
Environment and Highways                  6                       3                     2
Highway Safety                            3                       2                     2
Contract Administration                   4                       3                     3
Highway Management                        3                       3                     2
Domestic Training by Local and Expatriate Specialists
To be Defined                    Not Yet Defined        Not Yet Defined        Not Yet Defined
m.\hajti\newanx3 .ha



- 78 -                             Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
ROADS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Inplementation Arrangements
Overall Coordination
1.    MTPTC will establish a Coordinating Unit (CU) under the General Directorate to
coordinate and administer the overall implementation of the project. The CU will comprise
an experienced Coordinator, an experienced highway engineer, an administrator, a training
expert and sufficient support-level staff. The Coordinator will be assisted by a civil engineer
with experience in implementing road rehabilitation and maintenance programs, a civil
engineer and an accountant, recruited from an experienced expatriate firm. The CU will also
be assisted by a Procurement Agent/Firm to be recruited under the project.
Inter-urban Components.
2.    Prior to the reorganization of the MTPTC, the implementation of the inter-urban
component will be managed by an Inter-urban Project Unit (IPU) directly under the Directeur
des Transport (DDT). After the reorganization, the Unit will be incorporated within the
proposed Central Roads Directorate. The Unit will be headed by a senior MTPTC Civil
Engineer (Head of Unit) and comprise 4 additional MTPTC civil engineers, 2 secretaries and
two drivers. Two of the four engineers will supervise the implementation of the inter-urban
rehabilitation program and the remaining two for the maintenance program. The IPU will be
responsible for preparing bidding documents, contracts, terms of reference and letters of
invitation for engineering and feasibility studies related to the inter-urban components and for
works and studies supervision. IPU will participate in the evaluation of consultants'
proposals. IPU would not be directly responsible for the Community Action Council (CAC)
maintenance activities which would continue to be the responsibility of Haut Intensite de
Main d'Oeuvre (HIMO).
3.    The IPU will be assisted by four experts from an expatriate consulting firm to be
recruited under the project. The experts will include 2 civil engineers, one with field
experience in managing road rehabilitation and maintenance projects and the other in studies
and engineering design, a transport economist and a geotechnical engineer. Other experts will
be recruited for short periods, in coordination with the CU, as their expertise is required.
Urban Components
4.    The project's urban components would managed by an Urban Project Unit (UPU)
directly under the Directeur des Travaux Publics. After the reorganization, it will be
incorporated within the proposed Central Urban Directorate for the Port au Prince
Metropolitan Area. The UPU will comprise an experienced MTPTC civil engineer (Head of
Unit), 8 MTPTC engineers and support-level staff (2 secretaries and 2 drivers). The UPU
will be responsible for the preparing bidding documents, contracts, terms of reference and



- 79 -                              Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
letters of invitation for consultants' studies and detailed engineering and for works and
studies supervision. The UPU will participate in the evaluation of consultants' proposals. The
UPU will not be directly responsible for CAC's road maintenance activities which will
continue to be the direct responsibility of HIMO.
5.    The UPU will be assisted by local consultants for the studies and design and works
supervision of the urban components of the project. Other experts will be recruited, in
coordination with CU for short periods as needed.
HIMO Program
6.    The Program of Labor-Intensive maintenance by communities will continue to be
carried out by HIMO under the direct supervision of the CU. HIMO will be assisted by local
consultants and specialized expatriate assistance.



- 80 -                      Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
HAITI
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Staff Input for Project Launch and Annual and Mid-Course Reviews
1.    The nature and scope of the project, especially the subsector reforms and the
increase in maintenance by contract, would necessitate extensive and close supervision,
especially during the first two years of project implementation. On the other hand, the
close involvement with the IDB including cooperation with their field office for
supervision should lead to some savings, particularly after the initial intensive phase.
2.    A project launch mission and yearly project reviews will be organized, assisting
the staff of the implementing agencies to develop a common understanding of the
project's overall development objectives, operational procedures, coordination needs and
potential implementation problems and to select the components to be implemented
during the subsequent year.
3.    The tentative supervision timetable and required staffing is the following:
Project Launch Workshop.         First Quarter FY96.
Focus:                           reviewing and fine tuning, as necessary, the
implementation plan of each executing unit,
identifying and planning required coordination
among  agencies,  project  management,
procurement,  environmental  assessment,
disbursement and auditing procedures and
requirements. Technical assistance and training
programs.
Duration:                        5 days.
Participating IDA Staff:         - Task Manager                      (IDA)
- Project Leader                    (IDB)
- Urban Transport Engineer          (IDA)
- Environment Specialist            (IDB)
- Procurement Specialist            (IDA)
- Highway Engineer             (IDB, IDA)
- Lawyer                          (IDA)
Total Time Required:             7 staffweeks                         (IDA)



- 81 -                      Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
Annual Project Implementation Reviews.
No later than July 31, 1996, 1997, and 1999.
Focus:                           Project Progress  review, identification  of
implementation problems and issues and
planning for the upcoming year, including the
selection of subprojects.
Duration:                        5 days.
Participating IDA Staff:         - Task Manager                      (IDA)
- Project Team Leader               (IDB)
- Institutional Development
Specialist                        (IDB)
- Environment Specialist            (IDB)
- Urban Transport Engineer          (IDA)
- Highway Engineer             (IDB,IDA)
Time Required: (IDA)             FY1996 - 8 sw / FY1997 - 6sw / FY1998 to
FY2000 6 sw per year.
Mid-Term Implementation Review:
No later than July 31, 1998.
Focus:                           Annual  review   coverage  plus:  project
performance; identification of areas in need of
adjustment; status of: (a) implementation of
institutional changes in MTPTC, (b) operation of
Maintenance Fund, (c) performance of local
contractors on maintenance, and (d) introduction
of sector investment and policy coordination;
impact of technical assistance; effectiveness of
environmental assessment; and availability of
counterpart funds.
Duration:                        5 days.
Participating IDA Staff:         - Task Manager                      (IDA)
- Project Team Leader               (IDB)
- Institutional Development
Specialist                        (IDB)
- Environment Specialist            (IDB)
- Engineer                          (IDA)
- Urban Transport Engineer          (IDA)
- Lawyer                            (IDA)



- 82 -                      Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
Time Required: (IDA)             6 staff weeks.
4.    The Project Launch in FY96 would require 7 staff weeks. The Annual Project
Implementation Review would require about 7 staff weeks per year. In addition, one
regular supervision mission (one of one-week duration), comprising the Task Manager
and an Urban Specialist will be necessary. The Mid-Term Review would require 6 staff
weeks. Thus, total field supervision would amount to 67 staff weeks, and office
supervision is expected to amount to an additional 30 weeks, for a total of 97 staff
weeks during the life of the project, i.e. an average of 16 staffweeks per year.
5.    During the first two years of project implementation, supervision efforts will
focus on organization and team development with a view toward strengthening the PC's
operational capacity. The Project Launch workshop will be followed by additional
supervision input to familiarize selected local staff with IDA's procurement,
disbursement and auditing procedures and guidelines. It is expected that IDA staff will
assist MTPTC in prioritizing investments as well as staff resource allocation.
Proposed Agenda for Annual and Mid-Term Implementation Reviews
6.    The annual project review--to be organized by the CU--will take place by July
31 of each year, beginning in 1996, with the participation of the CU, representatives of
the executing units, and IDB and IDA staff. Annual reviews would focus on evaluation
of progress against the implementation of the Action Plan and against agreed objective-
oriented implementation and impact indicators (to be prepared at appraisal), and would
serve to update and revise the 1995-99 Road Program and to discuss issues of project
management. The result of the annual review would be the agreement on the following
year's program, and on remedial actions required to address problems or changing
circumstances during implementation.
7.    The mid-term review to be conducted no later than July 31, 1998 would follow
the same format as the annual reviews but the analysis of project impact would be
expanded. In addition to covering all the areas included in the annual reviews, the mid-
term review would pay particular attention to reviewing compliance with the Action
Plan, including: (a) institutional reform of MTPTC, (b) the performance of local
contractors in maintenance, (c) progress made in sector investment and policy
coordination; (d) Government's performance on project counterpart funding and on
adequately funding road maintenance through a Road Maintenance Fund, (e) the
Environmental Division's effectiveness, (g) effectiveness of technical assistance carried
out under the project; and (i) experience with the environmental assessment of
subprojects.



- 83 -                       Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
HAITI
ROADS MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Key Performance Indicators
Item                             I     Performance Target
l11995  11996  1997   1998  11999
Government's Contribution
(US$Million)
-Counterpart Funds                       0.5    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.5
-Maintenance Funds 2                      1.6    2.0    2.5    3.0    3.5
-Total                                   2.1    3.0    3.5    4.0    5.0
Network Maintained (km)                  250    500    1000   1500    2200
-Interurban Roads                        200    420    880   1350    2000
-Urban Roads                              50      80    120    150       200
Contract Maintenance
-% of Total Maintenance                   50      60     70      80    80
-By Contractors                           30      40     45      50    50
-By CAC                                   20      20     25      30    30
Force Account Maintenance                      I              T __
-% of Total Maintenance                   50      40     30      20  |20
MTPTC's Institutional Strengthening
-No. of Staff in MTPTC                   2000   1900   1800   1600   1400
-Fill Ratio Key Staff                     85      90     90     100    100
-Staff Receiving Training                 10      30     28      28      23
1. Under the project
2. Including roads not covered under the project



- 84 -
ANNEX 6
HAITI
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents in Project File
1.    Rapport Final Mission D'Assistance Technique pour le Projet de
Rehabilitation et D'Entretien du Reseau Routier Inter-Urbain.
Tractebel Development, Juin 1991.
2.    Programme Triennal de Reparation et D'Entretien du Reseau Routier
National. MTPITC, Decembre 1994
3.    Rapport Final du Programme Pilote de Travaux a Haute Intensite de
Main D'Oeuvre. Unite de Coordination - HIMO. Fevrier 1994
4.    Programme de Rehabilitation et D'Entretien de Routes Inter-Urbanes
Non-Revetues par des Techniques a Haute Intensite de Main-
D'Oeuvre. Bureau International du Travail - Service d"Infrastructure
et de Travaux Ruraux. L. Guerin, 1991.



IBRD 2321C
/c /o   I.,,rv,,c,,c' AxrpOrt                                                    THE BA-AS
|                     ~~~~~H  A  I T I//
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CUA
URBAN COMPONENT
REHABILITATION PROGRAM                                                                                                                          /DO-Ch
PROJECT IREHABILITATION PROGRAb)/
YEAR I
1111 YEAR 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Caribb-a  Se.
YERcR 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JR1TENATICNALI OUN~DARY
PARALLEL PROJECTS
WATER SUPPLY (IDA'CCCE)                                                                        a                                                                              DELMAS
*OS L    DRAINAGE ID1,                                                                                                                                       -
- RADS
CARREFOUR
PETION-VILLE
rA, =p Ac bn. poepn.,d to IL. W:Yerl=   ,aEA'  e.9 ciAa.y ARe /Ae                                                                      r.v
coneiiGene of. .eoi,i,ndrse.v.de1,Ao.rh Ate,.,.Rueo,Te,tih,,
%o --,            AP,       ,,eno lYN i   at,d An     - ,4Ac
moEiplii.iiop oiFPU   L^POei 0/  ,W:Ide,..tiieOtROVP0YIdetael






___ ___ __ ___ __.__ ___ ___ __ ___ _T2'Y___ ___ __ __I__SPED  2321 3q
d'v1*.Y.                                             T                         A A   I A N T/C                                                                OCEAN CADAA
___ ~ ~ ~ ~ " \'    ,               ATLATIC      OACE,**6
Vt                                                                                       .k' V.A. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P- D  .
-N,.ASI   CUAI                                                                                                        -                                                   A"e,''  -
16.~~~~~~$
7__ _ _ _               .C_  /I5____A_____                                                                                         _
H  A  I T  I  f c  T.S ..... _'    .......bAOO
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
IDA REHABIIUTATION PROGRAM
-    TEAl I r.slf--,,.., 
-    PR22, M&ARA.AI J       k
ROAD NETOR
Efl     NATIOa ROADS
ASPhALT
GRAVEL
DIRT                                                                                                                                                                                                             T-_
-   -    WTERNATIONAL ROUINDAMES                                                                        ,C'                                                                                                                               P
r- \ _ AIIIVAOTSRS 5=,  I                                                                 0S /                                                                                        (      r
VY_^t,.   /  S  2  8 _  ,,  j 8,o,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ., --b bw m~~~~~~~~1.T.
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~ 
~~~~~~C.AI.C,.                                                         c  ..on" D2d 
-                                          Or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
I     - -L , -  tEISA,S     -     -I -- '- -  -                                                                                                                                                                                       z5'   ;   * < ---- M  K,-,,'-2   G- --    >  \   ti  F    ,,o, -   -.---
~~~ -.  4AAAT   I  - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /CA".,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~         d  -,p    Ii P,.,T.   I
tb.ANA   X A.                                      C    A    AD   /   B    B R         A ..               5    E   A          T tW           t     ;   ol ow _7fbf  er ewCrA  E    A  E'A
r  ., ,,,,.,C-w
_00 BW30  2  mo  rroo                      n.6                                                                 /
.N                                                                                 
TLAAAASO,I. AS/An SIAOfAA~~~aTyAe/A5,TEAIICfl1I



