Page  1
July 12, 1995
Her Excellency Marie Michele Rey 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Republic of Haiti 
Palais des Ministeres 
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
Excellency
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 2691-HA) - 
Amendment to the 
Development Credit Agreement
Please refer to the above captioned Development Credit Agreement.
We are pleased to advise you that as a result of your request and our recent 
discussions on the subject the Association agrees to amend such Agreement as follows, 
so as to provide for a special deposit account and modify the conditions precedent to 
the effectiveness of the Credit Agreement and to the disbursement of part of the 
proceeds of the Credit. Main Body
1.
Section 1.02 (k) is amended by deleting the word "and".
2.
Section 1.02 (l) is amended by replacing the period by a semicolon and by adding 
the word "and".
3.
A new Section 1.02 (m) is added as follows:
“ ‘Special Account’ means the account referred to in Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement”.
4.
A new Section 2.09 is added to read as follows:
“The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a special 
deposit account in the Bank of the Republic of Haiti, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in  accordance with provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.”
5.
Section 3.08 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.08. (a) Not later than December 31, 1995, the Borrower shall hire and 
thereafter 
retain until completion of the Project, the services of:
(i)
a procurement advisory services firm to assist the Ministry at all 
stages of 
the bidding process of works to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit;
(ii)
a firm of professional accountants to assist the Ministry in the 
withdrawal of 
the proceeds of the Credit and in the compliance with 
the financial covenants 
set forth in Article IV of this Agreement; and
(iii)
the consultants required for the carrying out of Part D.2 (a) of 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the firms and the professionals referred 
to in paragraph (a) above (as well as the expert referred to in paragraph 3 (c) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement) will have qualifications and experience satisfactory to 
the Association and will be assisted by other qualified staff in adequate numbers.”.
6.
Section 4.01 (b) (i) is amended by inserting the words “including those of the 
Special Account” after the words “have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section”.
Page  2
7.
Section 4.01 (c) (ii) is amended by inserting the words “or payment out of the 
Special Account” after the words "retain, until at least one year after the 
Association has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account”.
8 .
Section 6.01 is amended by:
(a)
deleting paragraphs (b) and (d) and the word “and” at the end of 
paragraph (c); and
(b)
adding the word “and” at the end of paragraph (a). Schedule 1 9. 
Paragraph 3 (a) is amended by deleting the word “and”.
10.
Paragraphs 3 (b) is amended by replacing the period by a semicolon and by adding 
the word "and".
11.
A new paragraph 3 (c) is added to read as follows:
“(c)
payments made for expenditures under Categories 1 (c) and 1 (d) of the 
table set 
forth in said paragraph 1, unless the Borrower hires a road 
maintenance expert acceptable to  the Association, to assist the Ministry in the 
preparation and implementation of the 
corresponding Annual Road Programs.”.
Schedule 3
12.
Part F. 1 (a) is amended by adding the following words at the end thereof:
“Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contact required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall be furnished to the 
Association prior to the making of the first payment  out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract.”.
13.
Part F. 1 (b) is amended by adding the following words at the end thereof:
"Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the 
other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 
of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall be 
furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.”.
Schedule 4
14.
A new Schedule 4 is added to read as set forth in the Attachment to this letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating  
this letter in the spaces provided below. This amendment letter shall be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original. Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us. 
The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date the 
Association notifies the Borrower in writing that the Association: (a) has received 
one fully executed original of this amendment letter; and (b) has declared effective 
the Credit Agreement. Sincerely,
/s/ Edilberto Segura
    Director
    Country Department II
    Latin America and Caribbean Region
AGREED:
Page  3
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By ______________________
   Authorized Representative
Date: December 7, 1995
ATTACHMENT 
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  4
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
