Page  1
May 29, 1997
H. E. Fred Joseph
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Republic of Haiti
Palais des Ministères
Port-au-Prince, Haïti
     Re: Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (2691-HA)
  Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency,
Please refer to the Credit Agreement for the above Project, as amended.
We are pleased to advise you that, pursuant to your request and our recent 
discussions on the subject, the Association has agreed to further amend the Credit 
Agreement as follows so as to expand the scope of the road maintenance component of 
the Project and streamline the corresponding procurement arrangements.
1.
The third column of Category (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
the Credit Agreement is amended by replacing the text “100% until withdrawals under 
this Category have reached an aggregate amount equivalent to SDR600,000” by the text 
“95%”.
2.
Part B of the Project is amended to read as follows:
      “1. Maintenance of the infrastructure and facilities of the Borrower’s 
interurban roads network.
2.
Maintenance of the street infrastructure and facilities of the 
metropolitan region of the city of Port-au-Prince and other cities in the territory of 
the Borrower.”.
3.
Paragraphs 1 through 3 of Part D of Section I of Schedule 3 to the Credit 
Agreement are amended to read as follows:
“1.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $6,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded to pre-qualified contractors, on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Civil works under Part B.1 of the Project estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract:
(a) 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully; or
(b)
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, with the 
participation of local communities, on the basis of fixed-price contracts, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.
Civil works under Part B.2 of the Project estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract: 
(a) 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $13,000,000 equivalent, may be 
Page  2
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully; or
(b)
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $7,000,000, with the 
participation of local communities, on the basis of fixed-price contracts, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.”.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter shall be executed in 
two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  The 
provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date of this 
letter once the Association receives one fully executed original of this amendment 
letter.
Sincerely,
/s/ Paul Isenman Director
    Country Department III
    Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Agreed: REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By: /s/ Fred Joseph
 Authorized Representative
Date: June 16, 1997
