Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2691-HA
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
                (Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project)
                                   between
                              REPUBLIC OF HAITI
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated April 14, 1995
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2691-HA
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated April 14, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF HAITI
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
       WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
       (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an
amount equivalent to $45,000,000 to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and IDB;
       (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Union (EU) a grant (the EU Grant) in an amount equivalent to
$20,000,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EU Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EU; and
       (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) a loan (the KfW Loan) in an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the KfW Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and KfW; and
Page  2
       WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
       Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
       Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
       (a)   "Annual Road Program" means any of the programs
referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement;
       (b)   "Annual Road Programs Action Plan" means the action
plan described in the letter from the Borrower to the
Association of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 1);
       (c)   "Eligible Maintenance Subproject" means specific
maintenance works to be: (i) carried out under Part B of the
Project; (ii) financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(iii) included in the respective Road Program (as hereinafter
defined);
       (d)   "Eligible Rehabilitation Subproject" means specific
rehabilitation works to be: (i) carried out under Part A of the
Project; (ii) financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(iii) included in the respective Road Program (as hereinafter
defined);
       (e)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year, which
begins on October 1 and ends on September 30 of each year;
       (f)   "Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public
Works, Transport and Communications;
       (g)   "Ministry's Reorganization Plan" means the Ministry's
reorganization plan described in the letter from the Borrower
to the Association of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter
No. 2);
       (h)   "Project Coordinating Unit" means the unit referred
to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
       (i)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the Project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 27, 1990 and
December 11, 1990 between the Borrower and the Association;
       (j)   "Road Maintenance Financing Mechanism" means the
Borrower's financing mechanism to be prepared in accordance
with the terms of reference described in the letter from the
Borrower to the Association of even date herewith (Supplemental
Letter No. 3);
       (k)   "Training Program" means the Borrower's program
described in the letter from the Borrower to the Association of
even date herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 4); and
       (l)   "Twinning Arrangement" means the arrangement referred
Page  3
to in Section 3.13 of this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
       Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-four million six hundred
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 34,600,000).
       Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
       (b)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
       Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
       (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
Accrual Date and at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
       (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
       Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
       Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
       Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1
commencing July 1, 2005 and ending January 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January
1, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
Page  4
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
       (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 Dollars for five consecutive
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
       (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
       Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
       Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project,
through the Ministry, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
       (b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure
that not less than the equivalent of $500,000, $1,000,000,
$2,000,000 and $1,500,000 are allocated in the Borrower's
budgets for Fiscal Years 1995-1996, 1996-1997, 1997-1998 and
1998-1999, respectively, to defray maintenance expenditures of
the Borrower's road network.
       (c)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Ministry's Reorganization
Plan, the Performance Indicators and the Training Program.
       Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
       Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association, not later
Page  5
than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the continued
achievement of the objectives of the Project;
       (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
       (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
       Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain, until the
establishment of the directorate referred to in Section 3.05
(a) (i) of this Agreement, a Project coordinating unit under
the supervision of the Ministry's general directorate, to
manage the implementation of the Annual Road Programs, such
unit to be staffed by professionals with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association, assisted by other
qualified staff in adequate numbers.
       Section 3.05. (a) As a part of the Ministry's
Reorganization Plan, the Borrower shall, not later than
December 31, 1996:
             (i)   establish, within the Ministry:
                   (A)   a central road directorate separate from
                         the central transport directorate, such
                         directorate to be responsible for
                         coordinating and overseeing the road units
                         within the Ministry's nine regional
                         departments and the special department for
                         the metropolitan region of the city of
                         Port-au-Prince; and
                   (B)   an environmental unit within the Ministry;
                         and
             (ii)  replace the Ministry's public works central
                   directorate by a central urban directorate,
                   responsible for coordinating and overseeing the
                   urban units within the Ministry's regional
                   departments referred to in subparagraph (a) (i)
                   above, including the special department for the
                   metropolitan region of the city of Port-au-
                   Prince.
       (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the Ministry's
directorates, departments and units referred to in paragraph
(a) above will have functions and responsibilities satisfactory
to the Association. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall maintain the aforesaid administrative
arrangements until completion of the Project.
       Section 3.06. (a) Not later than June 30 of the first
three years of the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall
prepare and furnish to the Association, for its approval, an
annual road program, such program:
             (i)   to be prepared on the basis of the economic,
                   environmental, technical, institutional and
                   financial criteria described in the Annual Road
                   Program Action Plan;
             (ii)  to comprise all road maintenance and
                   rehabilitation works scheduled for the
                   following Fiscal Year, including proposals for
                   Eligible Rehabilitation Subprojects and
                   Eligible Maintenance Subprojects, based upon a
                   rolling plan for the three subsequent years,
Page  6
                   satisfactory to the Association;
            (iii)  to take into account the implementation
                   experience under previous Annual Road
                   Programs, if any;
             (iv)  to be linked to the budgetary process of the
                   Borrower for the following Fiscal Year; and
             (v)   to define clearly the volume of works to be
                   executed by private contractors and by force
                   account.
       (b)   The Borrower shall carry out the works not financed
under the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for such works.
       (c)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) above, the
Association shall only approve the Annual Road Programs, and
the corresponding proposals for Eligible Rehabilitation
Subprojects and Eligible Maintenance Subprojects if the
Borrower has:
             (i)   allocated the amounts set forth in Section 3.01
                   (b) of this Agreement for the corresponding
                   Fiscal Years; and
             (ii)  complied with the criteria described in the
                   Annual Road Program Action Plan for the
                   respective Fiscal Year.
       Section 3.07. (a) Prior to undertaking any investment in
the transport sector estimated to cost the equivalent of more
than $5,000,000, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   carry out the required economic analyses and
                   environmental assessments;
            (ii)   determine the appropriate arrangements for
                   future maintenance; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Association, for its review
                   and approval, the corresponding proposal.
       (b)   For the purposes of subparagraph (a) (iii) above, the
Association shall only approve investments which shall have
been proven economically and environmentally sound, pursuant to
methodologies satisfactory to the Association.
       Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall retain, at all times
until completion of the Project, the services of:
             (i)   a procurement advisory services firm to assist
                   the Ministry at all stages of the bidding
                   process of works to be financed out of the
                   proceeds of the Credit;
             (ii)  a firm of professional accountants to assist
                   the Ministry in the withdrawal of the proceeds
                   of the Credit and in the compliance with the
                   financial covenants set forth in Article IV of
                   this Agreement; and
            (iii)  a road maintenance expert to assist the
                   Ministry in the preparation and
                   implementation of the Annual Road
                   Programs.
       (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the firms and the
Page  7
professionals referred to in paragraph (a) above will have
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association
and will be assisted by other qualified staff in adequate
numbers.
       Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
       (a)   not later than June 30, 1996, complete the execution
of Part D.2 (a) of the Project;
       (b)   not later than September 30, 1996, furnish to the
Association copy of the findings and recommendations of such
study, together with the respective Borrower's comments; and
       (c)   not later than March 31, 1997, implement the
recommendations of the study commented by the Borrower, taking
into account the Association's comments thereon.
       Section 3.10. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall maintain, at all times until completion of the Project
user charges for its road network at levels sufficient, in the
opinion of the Association, to defray at least the
corresponding maintenance expenditures.
       Section 3.11. Not later than December 31, 1996, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the Borrower's
transport master plan, including a transport policy framework
and investment program, and a traffic master plan for the
metropolitan region of the city of Port-au-Prince, prepared
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
       Section 3.12. Not later than June 30, 1997, the Borrower
shall enter into a twinning arrangement, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, with a road
department from a country acceptable to the Association, aimed
at providing a long-term technical assistance program,
including on-the-job training for the Ministry's staff.
       Section 3.13. With regard to the training activities to be
carried out under the Training Program, other than those to be
carried out under the Twinning Arrangement, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association, for its
review and approval, the contents, schedule and selection
criteria for the respective training activity;
       (b)   carry out such training activity in accordance with
the contents, schedule and selection criteria approved by the
Association; and
       (c)   furnish to the Association a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall request, on the
results of each such training activity and the benefits to be
derived therefrom.
       Section 3.14. With regard to the services of the
consultants to be hired under the Project, the Borrower shall:
       (a)   promptly after the completion of each service,
furnish to the Association copy of the consultants' findings
and recommendations, together with the respective Borrower's
comments;
       (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
comment on such findings and recommendations; and
       (c)   implement the recommendations of such consultants
commented by the Borrower, taking into account the
Association's comments thereon.
       Section 3.15. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon
Page  8
the provisions of Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall:
             (i)   carry out environmental impact assessments with
                   regard to all Eligible Rehabilitation
                   Subprojects and Eligible Maintenance
                   Subprojects, under terms of reference
                   satisfactory to the Association;
            (ii)   review, jointly with the Association, the
                   findings and recommendations of such
                   assessments; and
           (iii)   implement the recommendations of the
                   environmental impact assessments, taking
                   into account the Association's comments
                   thereon.
       (b)   The environmental impact assessments referred to in
subparagraph (a) above shall take into account the findings and
recommendations of the studies carried out under part D.3 of
the Project, which shall include, inter alia, the following
aspects:
             (i)   specification of the actions required to
                   correct erosion and sedimentation problems, at
                   the short and long terms;
             (ii)  comparative analysis of the various alternative
                   proposals for such purpose; and
            (iii)  incorporation of the selected proposals in
                   the corresponding engineering designs and
                   bidding documents.
       Section 3.16. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, not later
than March 31 and September 30 of each year, until completion
of the Project, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association, for its review, reports of such scope and in such
detail as the Association may reasonably request, on the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Annual Road Programs, the Ministry's
Reorganization Plan, the Performance Indicators and the
Training Program during the previous calendar semester.
       Section 3.17. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, not
later than July 31 of each year during the execution of the
Project, starting in 1996, the Borrower shall review, in
conjunction with the Association, the progress achieved in the
implementation of the Project, the Annual Road Programs and the
Ministry's Reorganization Plan, the Performance Indicators and
the Training Program during the previous calendar year.
       (b)   If, as a result of any of the above reviews, the
Association determines that the progress in the execution of
the Project or in the achievement of its objectives is not
satisfactory, the Borrower shall promptly take all such action,
satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary for the
efficient execution of the Project or the overall achievement
of its objectives.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
       Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
Page  9
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
       (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal
                   Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than
                   four months after the end of each such
                   year, a certified copy of the report of
                   each such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the
                   Association shall have requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records and
                   accounts as well as the audit thereof as
                   the Association shall from time to time
                   request.
       (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after
                   the Association has received all the
                   required audits for the Fiscal Year
                   in which the last withdrawal from the
                   Credit Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                   receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                   to examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the corresponding annual audit
                   referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                   Section and that the report of such audit
                   contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during the Fiscal
                   Year corresponding to the audit in
                   question, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support
                   the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
       Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)   any of the legislative, regulatory or administrative
provisions pertaining to the implementation of the Ministry's
Reorganization Plan or the Road Maintenance Financing Mechanism
or its administration shall have been enacted, issued, amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in
the opinion of the Association, materially and adversely the
Page  10
ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
this Agreement; and
       (b)   (i)   subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                   (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                         proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
                         Borrower for the financing of the Project,
                         including the IDB Loan, the KfW Loan and
                         the EU Grant, shall have been suspended,
                         cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                         part, pursuant to the terms of the
                         agreement providing therefor; or
                   (B)   any such loan, including the IDB Loan and
                         the KfW Loan, shall have become due and
                         payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
                   (ii)  subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
                         not apply if the Borrower establishes to
                         the satisfaction of the Association that:
                   (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                         or prematuring is not caused by the
                         failure of the Borrower to perform any of
                         its obligations under such agreement; and
                   (B)   adequate funds for the Project are
                         available to the Borrower from other
                         sources on terms and conditions consistent
                         with the obligations of the Borrower under
                         this Agreement.
       Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
       (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur; and
       (b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
       Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
       (a)   that the Borrower shall have established and staffed,
to the satisfaction of the Association, the Project
Coordinating Unit;
       (b)   that the Borrower shall have employed the consultants
required for the carrying out of Part D.2 (a) of the Project;
       (c)   that not less than the equivalent of $350,000 and
$150,000 have been allocated in the Borrower's budget for
Fiscal Year 1994-1995, for the carrying out of Parts B.1 and
B.2 of the Project, respectively; and
       (d)   that the Borrower shall have contracted the services
of the professionals referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement.
       Section 6.02. The date July 13, 1995 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
Page  11
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
       Section 7.01. Except as provided by Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
       Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
       For the Borrower:
             Ministry of Economy and Finance
             Palais des Ministeres
             Port-au-Prince
             Haiti
                                            Telex:
                                              20347
                                              FINANCE
       For the Association:
             International Development Association
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                     197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA),
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                                82987 (FTCC)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   REPUBLIC OF HAITI
                   By /s/ Jean Casimir
                                                   Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  12
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated            % of
                              (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                     SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works under
    Parts A and
    B of the Project,
    including super-
    vision thereof:
    (a)  Eligible Rehabi-          17,120,000         100%
         litation Sub-
         projects under
         Part A.1 of the
         Project
    (b)  Eligible Rehabi-           3,650,000         100%
         litation Sub-
         projects under
         Part A.2 of the
         Project
    (c)  Eligible Main-             1,760,000         100%, until with-
         tenance Sub-                                 drawals under
         projects under                               this Category
         Part B.1 of                                  have reached an
         the Project                                  aggregate amount
                                                      equivalent to
                                                      $1,000,000; 80%,
                                                      until withdrawals
                                                      under this Category
                                                      have reached an
                                                      aggregate amount
                                                      equivalent to
                                                      $2,000,000; and 60%,
                                                      thereafter
    (d)  Eligible Main-               990,000         100%, until with-
         tenance Sub-                                 drawals under
         projects under                               this Category
         Part B.2 of                                  have reached an
         the Project                                  aggregate amount
                                                      equivalent to
                                                      $1,000,000; 80%,
                                                      until withdrawals
                                                      under this Category
                                                      have reached an
                                                      aggregate amount
                                                      equivalent to
                                                      $1,500,000; and 60%,
                                                      thereafter
(2) Goods                            1,210,000        100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures
(3) Consultants'                     5,590,000        100%
    services
(4) Refunding of                       500,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                                  suant to Section
    tion Advance                                      2.02 (c) of this
                                                      Agreement
(5) Unallocated                      3,740,000
                                    __________
TOTAL                               34,600,000
                                    ==========
Page  13
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
    (b)   payments made for expenditures under Category 1 of the
table set forth in said paragraph 1, unless the respective
Eligible Rehabilitation Subproject or Eligible Maintenance
Subproject is included in an Annual Road Program approved by
the Association, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.06 of
this Agreement.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures under contracts:
    (a)   for works not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; and
    (b)   for goods not exceeding $25,000 equivalent;
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist the
Borrower in implementing the Annual Road Programs; (ii) to
strengthen road sub-sector management through the Ministry's
Reorganization Plan; (iii) to foster private sector and
community participation in road works; and (iv) to assist the
Borrower in increasing its financing of road maintenance.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Road Rehabilitation
1.  Rehabilitation of approximately 250 kilometers of the
Borrower's interurban roads network, including periodic
maintenance.
2.  Rehabilitation of approximately 35 kilometers of the
metropolitan region of the city of Port-au-Prince streets
network, including periodic maintenance.
Part B:   Road Maintenance
1.  Maintenance (other than periodic maintenance) of
approximately 2,000 kilometers of the Borrower's interurban
roads network.
2.  Maintenance (other than periodic maintenance) of
approximately 140 kilometers of the metropolitan region of the
city of Port-au-Prince street network.
Part C:   Equipment and Tools
    Acquisition and utilization of maintenance equipment and
handtools, including spare parts therefor and provision of
repair services for such equipment and hand tools, aimed at:
    (a)   assisting maintenance works by village communities;
Page  14
    (b)   providing a minimum pool of equipment to support
maintenance by force account and a small in-house capacity in
the Ministry for emergency intervention;
    (c)   repairing the telecommunications network of the
Ministry;
    (d)   providing the logistical support for the planning and
supervision units of the Ministry; and
    (e)   repairing existing traffic signals and providing
approximately 20 additional traffic signals for the
metropolitan region of the city of Port-au-Prince.
Part D: Institutional Strengthening
1.  Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the capacity
of the Ministry in the implementation of the Project and the
Annual Road Programs.
2.  Carrying out of studies for:
    (a)   the establishment and operation of the Road Maintenance
Financing Mechanism;
    (b)   the preparation of the Borrower's transport master
plan; and
    (c)   the preparation of the traffic master plan for the
metropolitan region of the city of Port-au-Prince.
3.  Carrying out of environmental studies on identification of
erosion and sedimentation problems that may affect all
rehabilitated roads.
4.  Carrying out of studies for the development of a plan for
the promotion of the local road construction sector and for the
establishment of an equipment rental scheme.
5.        Carrying out of the Ministry's Reorganization Plan.
                                  *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Association's
prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part F.1 (a)
Page  15
of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be
required for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period
if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii)
any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary
for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.        Bidders for works and goods under Part A.1 hereof shall
be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
3.        To the extent practicable, contracts for works and
goods shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 and $100,000 or more, respectively.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Haiti may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with theprocedures described in Part A 
hereof, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D: Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Civil works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $4,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded to pre-qualified contractors, on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.  Civil works under Part B.1 of the Project estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded:
    (a)   to pre-qualified contractors, on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association; or
    (b)   through direct negotiations with local communities, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.  Civil works under Part B.2 of the Project estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded to pre-qualified contractors on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000
but more than $25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
Page  16
acceptable to the Association.
5.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be
procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association.
6.  Contracts for equipment repair services estimated to cost
the equivalent of $25,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount of
$200,000, may be procured through direct negotiations with
local shops, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part E:   Standard Bidding Documents
    In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
Parts D.1, D.2 (a), D.3 and D.4 hereof, the Borrower shall use
standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Association.
Part F:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to:
          (i)   each contract for civil works estimated to cost
                the equivalent of more than $200,000;
         (ii)   each contract for goods estimated to
                cost the equivalent of more than
                $25,000; and
        (iii)   the first contract awarded under Parts D.1,
                D.2 (a), D.2 (b), D.3 and D.4 hereof, the
                procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
                of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Special Provisions
    Without limitation or restriction upon any other provisions
in this Agreement, the following special provisions shall
govern all procurement of works and goods referred to in Part
D.1, D.2 (a), D.3 and D.4 of Section I hereof:
    (a)   foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to
bid on all contracts and shall not be required to be associated
with local contractors or suppliers;
    (b)   except for the use of unskilled labor, there shall not
be any restriction on sources of labor;
    (c)   there shall not be any restriction on sources of
materials;
    (d)   no reference, minimum or maximum prices shall be used
for purposes of evaluation of bids for the supply of goods;
Page  17
    (e)   bids shall be opened in public and their prices shall
be read aloud; and
    (f)   contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid was
evaluated as the lowest and responsive, in accordance with
criteria clearly set forth in the standard bidding documents.
Section III.  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Association.\1a
