Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15711-JO
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN 2953-JO)
June 12, 1996
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dulies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2953-JO)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Note (PCN) for the First Telecommunications Project in
Jordan, for which Loan 2953-JO   in the amount of  US$36.0 million to the Jordan
Telecommunications Corporation (TCC), with the guarantee of the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan, was approved by the Board on June 14, 1988.
The Loan, however, was not signed and was withdrawn at the request of the Government
(telex of August 8, 1989). In this telex, the Government informed the Bank that due to changes
in the macro-economic conditions in Jordan since project appraisal and loan negotiations, and as
part of its structural adjustment efforts, it had decided to cancel the investment program for the
telecommunications sector and related financing. Accordingly, the Bank was requested to
withdraw the Loan, which was canceled in August 1989.
The PCN was prepared by Mr. M. Scoffier, Consultant (IENTI), and reviewed by Messrs.
A. Shanmugarajah, Task Manager (IENTI), A. McKechnie, Division Chief (MN2PI), and
T. Kolan, Acting Project Adviser (MN2DR).
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
oricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
(Loan 2953-JO)
A.   Background and Project Objectives
1.    The Jordanian economy, particularly the dominant service sector which accounts for 60
percent of GDP, depends critically on effective communications and modem business
data/information services. In 1987, the Bank had reviewed and actively discussed with the
Government of Jordan (GOJ) the sector's status and need for assistance, so that it could increase
the pace of its growth and improve the quality of its services. This would adequately ensure and
sustain a thoroughly efficient contribution from the sector to the country's socio-economic
activities and development.
2.    Authority for public telecommunications services in Jordan is vested in the Ministry of
Posts and Communications. The monopolistic operator in charge of the provisions and operation
of domestic and international telecommunications services is the Jordan Telecommunications
Corporation (TCC), a Government-owned semi-autonomous agency, directed and supervised by
a ten-member Board of Directors with wide authority over TCC. The Board is chaired by he
Minister of Communications and TCC remains, de facto, a public sector entity with the
characteristics and operational modes of a ministerial department of GOJ's central
administration.
3.    By end 1987, TCC had attained a telephone penetration of 7 lines per 100 inhabitants,
satisfying 67% of expressed demand. Penetration level was moderately good compared to
neighboring countries: 3 to 4 percent in Iraq, Egypt and Syria; 9 percent in Lebanon and Saudi
Arabia; and 26% in Israel. The forecast of a continued 10 percent growth in demand, plus the
registered unsatisfied demand for about 100,000 lines translated into a need for the realization of
about 230,000 lines in the next 5-year period. (For reference, in 1987 there were a total of
210,000 lines in service).
4.    Also, the rapid network modernization and growth of TCC, from 1982 to 1986, had not
been accompanied by a comparable program neither for improving sector policies at government
level, nor for upgrading TCC's organization, manpower skills and management systems to
enable it, in particular, to function as an efficient commercial entity, with adequate organizational
and financial procedures and sufficient autonomy in operation and finances.
5.   In 1987, the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan requested Bank assistance
in financing the development of the country's telecommunications sector which was a large
component of the 1986-90 National Development Plan. TCC's investment program had been



-2 -
drawn up, with the help of consultants, on the basis of the new five-year Plan and of the
experience from the previous program under which most facilities had been modernized using
up-to-date digital technology. The Government was also aware of the need to reform and
restructure the telecommunications sector along commercial lines, in accordance with the
national socio-economic objectives and the world-wide evolution in this field. GOJ also wanted
to reorganize TCC's structure and upgrade its operational and management capabilities, so that it
could efficiently operate and sustain the anticipated further development of a large network,
which would reach about half a million lines in the near future. Project preparation was
completed by November 1988. Appraisal was made in February 1989 and Loan 2953-JO was
approved by the Board on June 14, 1989.
6.   In the above context, the project objectives were to: (a) expand network capacity,
improve service quality, increase geographic coverage and introduce new services; (b) formulate
and implement reforms to improve the policy framework for the commercialization of the
telecommunications sector and restructure TCC to function as a commercially oriented entity
with full autonomy; (c) upgrade TCC's operational and management capabilities and strengthen
its capacity to develop and implement competitive strategies for procurement, investment
financing, and system planning and construction; (d) help GOJ and TCC to revise
telecommunications policy and tariffs to adjust for changes and shifts in market demand and
costs under the evolving technological and economic conditions and prospects; and (e) support
TCC in its reorganization toward an autonomous commercial entity, using modern information
technology in its management and operation.
B.   Project Description
7.    The project which covered TCC's entire revised 1988-92 telecommunications investment
program, consisted of:  (a) a technical assistance program  for sector restructuring and
institutional development; (b) switching equipment for an additional 231,000 lines; (c) associated
local network and subscriber plant for the connection of 235,000 new subscriber lines; (d)
additional microwave and cable transmission links; (e) a new national and international
switching center; (f) a new satellite earth station; (g) computer systems; and (h) ongoing works
still to be completed, principally 30,000 lines of switching equipment and retained consultants to
assist TCC in project planning and implementation. The project was expected to be completed
1988 through end 1992, the selection of the consultants and suppliers taking place in 1988.
C.   Project Cost and Financing Plan
8.    The total project cost was estimated at US$338.1 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$223.2 million. This included ongoing works of US$28.2 million with an
foreign exchange component of US$17.7 million financed under existing bilateral credit
agreements. The estimated cost of the new works was US$309.9 million with an foreign
exchange component of US$205.5 million.



-3 -
9.    The financing plan was as follows:
-     IBRD - US$36.0 million
-     TCC - US$153.3 million
-     Exports and Mixed Credits - US$79.2 million
-     French and Japanese Financing for Tied Procurement
(Proprietary Items) - US$5.7 million
-     Co-financing with Local Networks - US$46.2 million
-     Japanese Protocol No. 4 and Swedish Soft Loan - US$17.7 million
Export and mixed credits were to be obtained at favorable conditions for sophisticated switching
equipment and the satellite earth station to be procured under price and terms tendering.
D.   Project Benefits and Risks
10.   The main benefits from the project were expected to: (a) enable TCC to satisfy 82
percent of the expressed demand, by 1992, and to provide services with improved quality and
expanded geographic coverage to about 12 percent of the population; (b) achieve sector
commercialization and institution building of the operating entity; and (c) realize a first phase of
the sector reform, including TCC's corporatization within an improved sector policy enhancing
the efficiency and productivity of the telecommunications and information infrastructure. On the
network development side, an important benefit was to enable TCC to seek and obtain lesser
investment costs through the international competitive bidding process which was not practiced
for major installations in the past.
11.   The project's main risks were the potential delay in the identification, formulation and
implementation of the sector and institutional reforms. On the physical side, consultants were to
assist in development planning and implementation, and there were no unusual risks associated
with the project.  Also, the project had been designed to allow for adjustments during
implementation to reflect possible fluctuations in demand patterns due, for example, to slower
economic growth, so that the estimated economic and investment returns would not be
excessively affected.
E.    Project Start-up and Reasons for Loan Withdrawal
12.   Project implementation started-up in 1988, as planned, for the detail planning and bidding
processes. The Bank team assisted TCC in its shift to international competitive and price and
terms bidding procedures. This departed from the previous practice of negotiated large turn key
contracts under the 1980-85 investment program. Bids for the main contracts had been received
in 1988. However, in late 1988, GOJ and TCC had informed the Bank that it was necessary to
revise TCC's 1988-92 investment program in the context of an overall reconsideration of the



- 4-
national debt and capital expenditures under the ongoing National Development Plan.  The
review resulted from the country's evolving economic situation and prospects.
13.   Signing of the loan was delayed in spite of several reminders from the Bank that, pending
signature, action for commitments under the projects would have to be deferred or postponed.
In March 1989, GOJ established a Task Force, under the Chairmanship of the Prime Minister, to
thoroughly reevaluate all of the ongoing and planned investment projects, in order to re-
determine investment priorities and sources of financing. In August 1989, due to the recent
changes in the country's macro-economic conditions and as part of its structural adjustment
efforts, the Government decided to cancel the investment program for the telecommunications
sector and all related financing. The decision also concerned other major sectors under the
ongoing National Plan. Accordingly, GOJ in its telex of August 8, 1989 requested that the Bank
withdraw Loan 2953-JO, which had been approved by the Board on June 14, 1988 but never
signed. The Bank accepted the Government's request, and the project was canceled on August
30, 1989.
F.    Findings and Lessons Learned
14.   Three important lessons were learned during processing of the project. The first one
relates to the approach taken during project preparation on the necessary close association
between  telecommunications development and  sector reform.   In-depth management
improvement and institutional reforms of extensive public sectors which operate in a monopoly
environment such as public telecommunications in Jordan, is a difficult, complex and delicate
process, which requires the participation of all stakeholders. In line with the Bank Country
Assistance and Telecommunications Sector Strategies at the time of the project, exhaustive
efforts were made to prepare for a combined undertaking. Interactively involving Government,
TCC and the lenders in sector development, restructuring and commercialization process created
the environment necessary for successful achievement of project objectives.
15.   The second lesson learned was that the quality of and the continuity in the staff assigned
to the project enabled to establish a real dialogue and the conditions for effective interworking
and communications between the parties during project preparation and discussion. Sector
reform and the restructuring of large public utilities can be quite contentious. Achieving
consensus among the conflicting interests involved required skilled communicators and a high
level of cooperation and good will. In this case, the Bank played an important role in achieving
this environment. Loan processing from pre-appraisal to Board approval took only about six
months, compared with the average of nine months in the Bank as a whole and 14 months for
telecommunications operations specifically.
16.   The third lesson learned relates to the sustainability of Bank influence in the field of
telecommunications in Jordan, in spite of the fact that the project was not implemented. The
project was canceled for a reason exogenous to its own objectives and composition. As stressed
in the two previous paragraphs, Bank action undertaken for the project had a catalytic learning



- 5 -
effect on the interactive processes of sector development and reform. During the 1989-93 period
of economic recovery, telecommunications investments were limited to the completion of
ongoing works. In 1994, confronted with accumulated requirements for sector development, the
Government adopted an updated sector policy and strategy, aiming at both expanding services
and implementing a major sector restructuring program. In line with worldwide evolution, the
program included opening the sector to competition and privatizing the operations of TCC to
enable private sector involvement. Within the Country Assistance Strategy for Jordan, the Bank
continued to liaise with the sector authorities on these matters and the leaming process could
bear its fruits through a Second Telecommunications Operation, as described in the postscript
(paras. 17 and 18).
G.   Postscript
17.   From 1989 to 1993, telecommunications investment in Jordan was limited to TCC's own
resources and the completion of ongoing works from previous development plan. These works
included expansion of exchange capacity by about 30,000 additional lines (para.7) and
complementary works in the distribution networks to enable connecting new subscribers using
available capacities in existing exchanges.  During that period, only about 50,000 new
subscribers were connected, compared to the 160,000 planned under the canceled project. By
end 1993, unsatisfied demand was about 90,000 lines and total demand for basic telephone
service was growing by about 35,000 lines each year. The level of demand satisfaction was still
below 70 percent, in spite of the development of mobile telephone services which was underway.
The performance of the sector remained weak and TCC was again confronted with very large
investment requirements.
18.  In  1993, in accordance with the country's economic recovery and its new
telecommunications strategy, GOJ requested Bank assistance to develop a market-oriented sector
restructuring and to support TCC's investment program which was being financed through a
combination of official development assistance (ODA) and internal and private commercial
sources. The new sector strategy calls for TCC's successive commercialization, corporatization
and finally privatization. In the context of effective and constantly renewed dialogue between
the Bank and GOJ/TCC, a second telecommunications project was prepared in 1993-94 and was
approved by the Board on May 26, 1994 (Loan 3738-JO). Project processing time was also
about six months (para. 15). The project includes appropriate technical assistance and an agreed
program for sector restructuring. TCC is expected to be privatized in 1996. To permit an earlier
involvement of the private sector in financing telecommunications development, the project is
supported by a US$20.0 million Bank loan and a US$50.0 million partial risk guarantee in
support of an US$18.0 million bond issue.









IMAGING
Report No:       15711
Type: PCN



