Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Ak!3Z5g- /SD
Report No. 9178-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Family Planning and Safe Motherhood)
February 8, 1991
Asia Country Department V
Population and Human Resources Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January, 1991)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00        = Rp 1,901
Rp I million   = US$526
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS         National Economic Development Planning Agency
BKKBN       =    National Family Planning Coordinating Board
CBR         =    Crude Birth Rate
DEPKES      =    Ministry of Health
DIK         =    Annual Routine Budget
DUP         =    Annual Development Projects (preliminary)
FPIS        =    Family Planning Information System
GOI         =    Government of Indonesia
IBI         =    Indonesian Midwives Association
IEC         -    Information Education and Communication
ITP         =    National Training Program
IUD         -    Intra-uterine Device
KLH          -   Ministry of Population and Environment
LCB              Local Competitive Bidding
MCH         =    Maternal and Child Health
MPC         =    Media Production Center
NGO         =    Non-Governmental Organization
NICPS       =    The National Indonesian Contraceptive Prevalence Survey
NORPLANT    =    Trademark of a contraceptive implant
OED         =    Operations Evaluation Department
PCR         =    Project Completion Report
PKK         =    Family Welfare Movement
POSYANDU         Health and Family Planning Village Gathering
PPAR        =    Project Performance Audit Report
PUSKESMAS   =    Health Center
REPELITA V  =    Fifth National Five-year Development Plan
TBA         =    Traditional Birth Attendant
TFR         -    Total Fertility Rate
TVRI        =    Television, Republic of Indonesia
UNDP        =    United Nations Development Program
UNFPA            United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UPT         =    Transmigration Unit
USAID            U.S. Agency for International Development
VCDC        =    Village Contraceptive Distribution Center
VSC         -    Voluntary Surgical Contraception
WHO          =   World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEFINITIONS
Contraceptive Prevalence          Proportion of married women of reproductive
age (15-44) estimated to be using
contraception.
Crude Birth Rate                  Number of live births per year per 1000.
Crude Death Rate                  Number of deaths per year per 1000.
Rate of Natural                   Difference between crude birth and crude
Increase                          death rate; usually exoressed as a
percentage.
Rate of Population                Rate of natural increase adjusted for
Growth                            (net) migration, expressed as a percentage
of the total population in a given year.
Total Fertility Rate              The average number of live children that
would be born per women if she were to live
to the end of childbearing years and bear
children according to a given set of age-
specific fertility rates. The Total
Fertility Rate often serves as an estimate
of the average number of children per
family.
Net Reproduction Rate             The number of live-born daughters a cohort
of females would bear under a given
fertility schedule and a given set of
survival probabilities, from birth to the
end of the childbearing years.
Infant Mortality Rate            Annual number of deaths of infants under one
year per 1000 live births during the same
year.
Low Birth Weight                  A live-born infant with a birth weight of
less than 2,500 grams (5 1/2 lbs) is said to
have low birth weight.
Maternal Death                    The death of a woman while pregnant or
within 42 days of delivery or termination of
pregnancy, irrespective of the duration or
the site of the pregnancy or its management
but not from accidental or incidental
causes.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Maternal Mortality Rate           N"-mber of maternal deaths in a given period
divided by the number of live births during
the same period. The maternal mortality
rate, formally ratio, is usually expressed
per 100.000 births.
Neonatal Mortality Rate           Number of neonatal deaths (death of a live
born child within 28 days of birth) per 1000
live births per year.
Post-neonatal Mortality           Number of post-neonatal deaths (death Rate
between 28 days and one year after birth)
per 1000 live births per year.
Perinatal                         Refers to the period between the 28th week
of pregnancy and the end of the first week
after birth.
Perinatal Mortality Rate          Perinatal deaths include late fetal deaths
(fetal deaths of 28 or more weeks of
gestation) and deaths of infants less than
one week old. The perinatal mortality rate
is the ratio of perinatal deaths in a given
period to live births during the same
period.
Selected Indonesian Terms
bidan                             midwife
desa                              village
kader                             group of volunteers
KABUFATEN                         district
RECAMATAN                         sub-district
KB Mandiri                        family planning self-reliance
POSYANDU                          integrated health/family planning community
gathering
PUSKESMAS                         health center



INDONESIA
FIFTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Family Planning and Safe Motherhood)
Table of contats
Paet No.
LOAN ANDPROJECTSUMMARY     . . . ..... ........... . . v
BASIC DATA   .....      . . . . . . . . .  * . . . . . . . . . .   ix
1.  POPULATION. FAMILY PLANNING AND MATERNAL HEALTH . . .       . 1
A.     Background    ....            ..............              1
B.     The Family Planning Subsector   . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
C.     Maternal and Child Health Subsector   . . . . . . . . . 4
D.     Sectoral Objectives and Strategies    . . . . . .   . *. 6
E.     Sectoral Issues   . . . . . . . . . ........        . . 7
II. LESSONS FROM PAST EXPERIENCE AND BANK STRATEGY    . . . . . . 13
A.     Background    . . . .*. . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . 13
B.     Policy Dialogue and Project Experience    . . . . . .  . 15
C.     Implications for Bank Strategy and Role   . . . . . . . 18
III. THE PROJECT     . . . . . . . * . . . . . . .*. . . . . . . 20
A.     Project Objectives     .......................... 20
B.     Project Description   . . . . . . . .&. . . . .  .      21
C.     Project Implementation and Management   . . . . . . . . 28
D.     Project Planning. Evaluation and Supervision Strategy   30
This report is based on the findings of three missions led by Mrs. Nydia
Maraviglia (Principal Population Specialist): (a) an identification/
preparation mission in September. 1989 consisting of Dr. Michael Porter
(Public Health), Mr. Eduard Boo (Demography) and Ms. Jennifer Miller (Training
Consultant); (b) a pre-appraisal mission in March-April, 1990 comprising Mr.
Samuel Lieberman (Senior Economist). Mr. Vasilios Demetriou (Senior
Architect), and consultants Dr. Peter Bootsma (Medical/Family Planning), Ms.
Cri Kars-Marshall (Training/IEC) and Me. Padia Saadah (Demography); and (c) an
appraisal mission in July-August. 1990 including all pre-appraisal
participants except for Mr. Demetriou, but including two additional members
Me. Ruth Montague (Senior Architect) and Ms. Susan Stout (Public Health). Ms.
Barbara Kwast (Midwifery Specialist. WHO, Geneva) advised the Bank appraisal
mision. Peer reviewers were: Susan Cochrane (PHNHR), Roslyn Hees (AS5PH).
and Vivian Wong (PHNER). Messrs. R. Cheetham, Director (AS5DR) and C. Gilpin.
Chief (AS5PH) have endorsed the project.



-iv-
IV.   PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS . 32
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
VI.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    . . . . . . 38
ANNEXES
1. Demographic and Family Planning Data
2. Basic Information on Community Midwives
3.  Family Planming Program Activities and Support Systems
4. Family Planning Budgets and Trends
5. Donors' Contributions to Indonesia's Family Planning Program
6. Project Indicators
7. BKKBN's Staff Development and Training Activities
8. IEC and Youth Programs
9. Part B: DEPRES - Community Midwives Development: Present Situation and
Proposed Solution
10. Terms of Reference for FPIS Review and for Study of BKKBN's
Provincial and District Level Organization and Operation
11. Project Cost Estimates
12. Schedule of Disbursements
13. Implementation Schedule
14. Technical Assistance and Fellowships
15. Selected Documents and Data in Project Files
CHARTS
Chart 1: BKKBN Organizational Structure
Chart 2: Referral System for Safe Motherhood
Chart 3: Organizational Chart for BKKBN's Bureau for Information and
Motivation
MAP: IoRD 22865 - January, 1991.



INDONESIA
FIFTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Family Planninz and Safe Motherhood)
Loan and Proiect Summarv
Borrower:      Republic of Indonesia
Amount:        US$104.0 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayable in 20 years including 5 years of grace, at the stan-
dard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:   The main objective of the project is to help the government
intensify its efforts to lower fertility and maternal mortality
during the 1990's. This would be achieved through two major
parts: Part A to further strengthen the family planning program
under the National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN)
and Part B to aAsist the Ministry of Health (DEPKES)
strengthening its policy and capacity to train and improve the
availability and sKills of midwives, designed to become a
primary source of family planning and maternal and child health
services at the village level. Through Part A BRKBN would
continue to provide leadership in coordinating high quality
family planning services using the public sector, non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) and private providers, and it
would extend the family planning program among hard-to-reach
populations. To accomplish these goals, Part A would have the
following specific components: (a) Targeted Family Planning
and Safe Motherhood promotion, intended to improve the
accessibility and utilization of services among the urban poor
and populations in coastal and transmigration areas, promote
family planning services in the organized sector and promote
nation'ide availability of long lasting contraceptive methods
including intra-uterine devices (IUDs), implant and
sterilization services; (b) an IEC and Community Outreach would
support improvements in BKKBN's IEC strategy and system
capacity, nromote participation of youth in family planning and
activate n,-w community groups in selected villages; (c)
Institutional Development would provide for staff development
training activities and personnel policy changes to support
BKKBN's family planning strategy, support reform and
strengthening of BKKBN's program monitoring, evaluation and
research capacity and strengthen field operations through the
provision of vehicles, equipment, contraceptives and other
materials and remodeling of selected buildings. Part B would
consist of three major components: (a) Strenrthening of a
policy framework on the objectives and related training and



-vl-
planning principles that would govern the deployment of
community midwives; (b) Strengthening jraining cagacitv througk
training of trainers and improving teaching materials and
equipment; and (c) supporting training and lmprovemert of the
effectiveness oi about lh,00 community midwives, requiring
improved certification and examination procedures for these
workers and accreditation standards for nurse midwifery
training schools. The project would also provide support to
both BRRBN and DEPRES for costs related to Project Management
including support for additional professional and
administrative contract staff for the project duration in both
agencies.
Benefits:      The project would facilitate intensified GOI efforts to lower
fertility levels and maternal mortality during the 1990O. which
in turn would result in considerable economic, social and
environmental benefits for the population in the next century.
The project design, based on targeting family planning services
to specific groups which would not otherwise benefit from the
program, would considerably increase equity in access. By
increasing the numbers and quality of midwives, the project
would contribute to improving maternal health and family
planning services, the conditions of women's health and their
employment opportunities.
tisks:         Part A of this investment entails relatively low risks due to
demonstrated Government co-mitment to family planning and safe
motherhood initiatives and strong implementation capacity by
BKRBN. Higher risks are associated with Part B because of the
uncertainty surrounding the deployment of midwives in villages.
These risks should be allayed by the heightened awareness of
the potential problems evident in DEPKES and BKKBN, the
cooperation of UNDP and WHO in an assessment study whose
results will be available before implementation, and the
participation of BAPPENAS in coordination.



-vii-
Estimated Costs                          Local  Foreign    Total
PART A
I. Family Planning services
& safe motherhood promotion
1. Coastal areas                        1.8      1.5      3.3
2. Transmigration areas                 2.4      0.8      3.2
3. Poor urban areas                     0.8      0.3      1.1
4. Organized sector                     1.2      0.3      1.5
5. Safe motherhood promotion            2.1      1.3      3.4
6. Enhancement of method mix            2.2     14.2     16.4
Sub-Total                                 10.5     18.4     28.9
II. IEC strategy & establishment
of community groups
1. IEC strategy                         4.0     10.4     14.4
2. Youth participation                  2.4      0.8      3.2
3. Community groups                     1.3      0.3      1.6
Sub-Total                                  7.7     11.5     19.2
III. Institutional development
1. Staff development                   12.6     12.6     25.2
2. Monitoring & research                3.9      4.3      8.2
3. Field operations                     4.8     11.6     16.4
Sub-Total                                 21.3     28.5     49.8
PART B
I. Development of midwives
1. Strengthen policy framework          0.7      0.3      1.0
2. Strengthen training capacity         0.4      2.1      2.6
3. Training of midwives                16.8      9.5     26.2
Sub-Total                                 17.9     11.9     29.8
Proiect management
1. BRRBN (Part A)                      0.6      0.1      0.7
2. DEPKES (Part B)                     1.0      0.2      1.2
Sub-Total                                 1.6      0.3      1.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                     59.0     70.6    129.6
Physical Contingencies                 1.8      2.3      4.1
Price Contingencies                    9.3      5.4     14.7
Total PROJECTS COSTS al                  70.1     78.3    148.4
A:   Includes taxes and duties of $4.9 million equivalent.



-viii-
Financing Plant
Local       Foresin       Total
Government of Indonesia        44.4          -           44.4
Bank                           25.7         78.3        104.0
Total Financinx                70.1         78.3        148.4
Estimated Disbursements s
Bank Fiscal Year              1992    1993     1994   1995    1996     1997
------…S$ million…-------------…           -
Annual                        12.5    13.5     25.0   29.1    17.7      6.2
Cumulative                    12.5    26.0     51.0   80.1    97.8    104.0
Rate of Returns Not applicable
Man    IBRD 22865



-ix-
INDONESIA
FIFTH POPULATION PROJECT
Basic Data /a
Total Area                                      1990          1,919,440 km2
Total Population                                1988          174,800,000
Density per km2                                               910
Population Growth Rate                          1988          2.1% per annum
Crude Birth Rate                                1988          28/1000
Crude Daath Rate                                1988          9/1000
Rate of Natural Increase                        1988          19/1000
Life Expectancy at Birth                        1986          59 years
Infant Mortality Rate                           1989          58/1000
Maternal Mortality Rate                         1989          450/100,000
Urban Population as Percent
of Total Population                           1988          27%
Adult Literacy Rate
Total                                         1986          74%
Females                                       1986          65%
Age Structure                                   1988
0-14                                                        37.5%
15-60                                                       56.4
60 and over                                                  6.1%
Population per Physician                        1984          9.460
Population per Midwife/Nurse                    1984          1,260
Contraceptive Prevalence                        1988          46%
Per Capita Gross National Product               1989          $500
a/ Bank estimates.



I



INDONESIA
FIFTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Family Planning and Safe Motherhood)
I. POPULATION, FAMILY PLMNNING AND MATERNAL HEALTH
A. Background
1.1       As the Government of Indonesia (GOI) implements its Fifth National
Development Plan (REPELITA V), it faces two central and closely linked social
and public health challengest first, to maintain past progress in reducing
high fertility, the family planning program will need to attract a substantial
number of new acceptors (including a 8rofing number of young people), improve
contraceptive continuation rates, and increase the proportion of long-lasting
clinical methods, and second, to reduce Indonesia's high maternal mortality
rate through reducing the risk and improving the management of obstetric
emergencies. Indeed, pregnancies among women who are too young or too old, or
births which are too closely spaced are subject to much higher risks for the
mother. Although there are other underlying causes of maternal morbidity and
death, there is an intrinsic relationship between fertility regulation and
maternal health which warrants joint program interventicns. Family planning
and maternal health are the central components of this project.
1.2       Fertility.  Indonesia has made great strides towards reducing
fertility. However, it is now at a crucial stage of its demographic
transition and faces unprecedented challenges in the 1990.. For mid-1990 the
population is estimated at about 182 million L., increasing at an annual
rate of growth of about 2 percent; with this growth rate, about 3.5 million
people are added each year. By the turn of the century, the population would
reach 213 million (Table 1.1, Annex 1). Even if these projectioms are
realized, zero population growth would not occur before the 22nd century, when
the stationary population will have surpassed 300 million. Since 1970,
fertility rates have fallen by 40 percent from a combination of family
planning and use of modern contraceptives, economic development and improved
women's education (Table 1.2, Annex 1).
1.3       Maternal and Infant Health Status.   Although deaths among infants
and children fell sharply over the last ten years, maternal morbidity and
mortality indicators show less rapid progress. Moreover, recent studies
suggest that further reductions in both infant and maternal mortality will
require more concentrated attention on problems associated with maternal
health and nutritional status prior to and during pregnancy, as well as
improved availability of suitable antenatal services and medical care at
birth. There are no accurate measures of the national levels of maternal
mortality because of the lack of vital registration in a society where over 75
percent of all deliveries take place in the home and related deaths are not
A    Preliminary results of the October 1990 population census give a total
population of 179 million; however, no details are available on
undercounting and other assessment of the census figures.



2
registered. However, various studies conducted since the late 1970s report
rates 12 varying between 1.5 and 7.2 maternal deaths per 1,000 live births.
A study done by the National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) and
Udayana University found the maternal mortality ratio to be 7.18 maternal
deaths per 1000 live births, a rate that is about 75 times higher than those
seen in developed countries. GOI estimates the national maternal mortality
rate to be 450 deaths per 100,000 live births.
1.4       Maternal health is closely linked with child health.   Neonatal
mortality accounts for about 40 per cent of all infant deaths in Indonesia and
eighty percent of those deaths are due either to tetanus or to periratal
causes (around ti birth and its immediate aftermath). Over the last ten
years, despite impressive declines in overall infant mortality, the proportion
of all infant deaths which are attributable to perinatal causes has grown from
about 22 percent to 42 percent. The latter are mainly the result of
obstructed labor and unhygienic delivery, often exacerbated by low birth
weight or prematurity. The poor health and nutritional status of the mother
are major underlying causes of an infant's low birth weight or prematurity.
In other words, while clear progress has been made in child health by
preventing immunizable diseases and in the reduction of postneonatal diarrheal
deaths, future improvements will require sharper attention to maternal health
status related to pregnancy and birth.
1.5       Major shifts in the health system and in consumers' health behavior
will be required to achieve significant improvements in maternal and child
health (MCH) and further declines in fertility. Well trained health workers
will need to be available in communities to identify, treat and refer to
district hospitals those mothers who are at risk of complications during
pregnancy or at birth and to dispense clinical family planning methods. This
will require a two-pronged approach: (a) continuing efforts to upgrade the
skills of traditional birth attendants (TBAs) who are present at about 75
percent of all deliveries; and (b) increasing the number and accessibility to
midwives who are able to deliver clinical family planning methods and to
manage obstetric risks when they occur at the community and health center
(PUSKESMAS) levels. During REPELITA V GOI plans to train and deploy 18, 900
midwives at the village level to address this challenge./3 On the consumer
/2   Conventional references to maternal mortality rates typically refer to
the maternal mortality ratio, that is the number of maternal deaths per
1,000 live births. Formally, the maternal mortality rate is the number
of maternal deaths per 100,000 women of reproductive age. The
distinction is important, since the maternal mortality ratio measures
obstetric risks, and will decline only if prenatal and obstetric care is
improved. The maternal mortality rate, on the other hand, confounds
obstetric risks and the risks attributable to high fertility.
/3   The titles of community based nurse-midwife, community midwife or
village midwife (bidan desa) are used interchangeably in this report
(and in Indonesia) to refer to the professional health worker--the
midwife-- with 3 years of nursing studies and one year of midwifery.



3
side, it will be necessary to improve women's understanding of how their o-
health and nutritional status affects the birth process; also, women wi'i ded
to be informed of what to do, and who to see, to assure well-manage'
pregnancies and successful births. Both types of changes will require sound
and sensitive undaretanding of the highly varied cultural conditions and
beliefs underlying childbearing behavior, as well as willingness to develop
affordable referral systems to assure that once identified, mothers and
children at risk receive appropriate obstetric or pediatric care.
B. The Family Planning Subsector
Proaram Evolution
1.6       GOI first issued policies for the establishment of a family
planning program in 1970. The program's goal at inception was to reduce the
crude birth rate (CBR) by 50 percent, from 44-46 per 1,000 women to 22-23 in
20000 (it was 28 per 1,000 in 1988, close to target). The BKKBN was created
in 1970 to perform a coordinating function among public and private
participating agencies.
1.7       During BKKBN's first phase, 1970 to 1973, a clinic based family
planning program was initiated in the six provinces of Java and Bali as part
of the MCH program of the public health service DEPEES. The program was
extended to 10 additional provinces in Other Islands I and Village
Contraceptive Distribution Centers (VCDCs) were established in Java and Bali
during the Second Plan Period, 1974-79./4 In the Third Plan Period, 1979-
84, the remaining provinces were added to the program and BRRBN family
planning coordinators were added at the regency level. The Fourth Plan
Period, 1984-89, saw a program expansion within provinces and to newly settled
transmigration areas. In 1984, BKKBN and the Ministry of Health (DEPRES)
launched a program of integrated health and family planning through monthly
community gatherings at the village levels involving community volunteers
assisting health center staff and family planning workers, organized to offer
five health and family planning services including immunizations, nutrition
education and child health care (POSYANDU). In 1986, a shift in policy toward
greater participation by the private sector began.
1.8       Most of the expansion of contraceptive use from less than 10
percent in the 1960s to about 48-50 percent among currently married women
today has occurred in the last decade. A comparison of data from the 1987
/4 Other (or "Outer") Islands I include the provinces of Aceh, North Sumatra,
South Sumatra, West Sumatra, Lampung, West Kalimantan, South Kalimantan,
South Sulawesi, North Sulawesi, and West Nusa Tenggara. Other Islands II
include the provinces of Riau, Jami, Maluku, Bengkulu, East Kalimantan,
Central Kalimantan, Central Sulawesi, Southeast Sulawesi, East Nusa
Tenggara, East Timor, and Irian Jaya.



4
National Indonesian Contraceptive Prevalence Survey (NICPS) with previous
surveys shows that significant changes in contraceptive mix have taken place
toward longer lasting methods (Annex 1, Table 1.4). To maintain the momentum
of the fertility transition, the total contraceptors would need to rise from
14.2 million in 1988, to 19.4 million in 1994, and further shifts in the
contraceptive mix toward longer lasting methods would be necessary. In
REPELITA V contraceptive prevalence would increase from 48 now to 55 percent
and the total fertility rate (TFR) would need to decline from 3.4-3.6 to 3.
1.9       Proaram Activities and Suprort Systems.  Family planning program
activities comprise five main areas implemented by an array of public and
private organizations: contraceptive services and distribution; development of
community institutions (for operation of VCDCs); information, education and
communication (IEC) and youth programs; population education in schools; and
promotion of women's economic and social well being. The program also has the
following support activities opera_ing under BKKBN: staff training; a
computerized national management information system (called Family Planning
Information System or FPIS)1 a National Research and Training Center; and an
International Training Program. BKKBN also has national and provincial
organizational units for management, personnel and supervision. Annex 3
provides a more detailed description of each of these program elements.
C. Maternal and Child Health Subsector
1.10      Community-Based Services.  The declines in infant and childhood
mortality that Indonesia has experienced over the last 10 years are remarkable
and reflect the significant success of programs to promote immunization
against preventable childhood diseases, expand the utilization of oral
rehydration salts to manage diarrhoea and improve child nutrition. These
programs are delivered through a network of 5,484 health centers at the
KECAMATAN (sub-district) level which support community-based services
delivered by POSYANDU (defined in para. 1.7). The 'maternal health' element
of the POSYANDU program is not well-defined, and POSYANDU activities other
than family plan;iing focus primarily on the needs of young children.
Recognizing the seriousness of the current high levels of maternal, and
perinatal mortality, GOI has made improvement of MCH one of the four principal
objectives of the health plan for REPELITA V. Women primarily rely on TBAs
for assistance at delivery. About 75 percent of all births are assisted by
trained or untrained TBAs, 15 percent are cared for by a private doctor or
midwife, and 12 percent take place in hospitals. Only about 50-70 percent of
the women visit a health facility or specialist during pregnancy, and fewer
than a third have been examined at least four times during pregnancy. The
data show significant regional variations; there are also great differences by
socioeconomic background. For example, about 841 of births to mothers with no
education were delivered by TBAs, while 16S of births to women with secondary
education or more were delivered by TBAs.
1.11      Traditional Birth Attendants.  Indonesia's previous MCH program
efforts, recognizing the key role of the TBA at delivery, focused on improving
the skills of the nation's 150,000 TBA. in delivery and identification and



5
appropriate referral of high risk mothers. Although ongoing, these training
programs have had relatively little success in terms of changing practices
during deliveries, largely due to the scarcity of health personnel and, as a
consequence, the absence of intensive and routine follow-up and supervision
through contacts between health personnel and TBAs. Other problems include
deficiencies in training materials and in teaching procedures which can be
understood and performed by the largely older and illiterate TBAs.
1.12      Emerging Safe Motherhood Stratevy. The growing recognition of
perinatal and maternal health risks as major health problems, in conjunction
with the need to improve the accessibility and utilization of more effective
family planning methods, has led GOI to develop a National Safe Motherhood
Strategy. This effort, in part a follow-on to an earlier national symposium
conducted in 1988, will be directed through a com-ittee headed by the Director
General of Community Health Services, which includes representation from
several DEPKES directorates, the National Development Planning Agency
(BAPPENAS), BKKBN, the Ministry of Women in Development and several
professional organizations including obstetrics/gynecology medical, and
midwives associations. A major focus for the safe motherhood program will be
on enhancing the number and capacity of midwives, a large proportion of which
will be based in villages, making services to mothers and children effective.
Historically, midwives were trained in specialized midwifery schools with a
variety of 2 or 3 year programst however, in the mid-1980s, in conjunction
with a major effort to consolidate the numbers of different types of Aursing
and paramedic staff, midwife training was incorporated into the nursing
curriculum through the addition of a one year graduate course in midwifery
following the first three years of nurse training. The basic curriculum for
midwife training was developed in 1985 and was modified in 1988 to provide for
training community-based midwives. By 1987 there were approximately 13,000
midwives trained in the previous 20 years. Most of these midwives work in
hospitals and fewer than 5,000 in the 67,000 villages of Indonesial this is
obviously an unsatisfactory coverage of professional maternal care.
1.13      Strengthenina Midwifery. There is a clear need for filling the gap
with a worker, located at the village level, who would be responsible for the
following primary functions: (a) provision of MCH and family planning
services, including assisting in deliveries and preventive services;
(b) promotion of community participation in the village; (c) supervision and
technical guidance to groups of local community volunteers (kader) and TBAs;
and (d) medical referral to the health center level. She would also be
responsible for local health problem definition through community mapping
exercises, management and supervision of POSYANDU activities, periodic and
selective household visiting, training and support of TBAs and record keeping
and reporting functions. For an effective safe motherhood program it would be
necessary to define referral pro, + res and responsibilities for TBAsg,
midwives, physicians and communii ,ased volunteers at village, health center
and district hospital levels. There would also be a need for significant
strengthening in physical facilities, particularly for transport of cases
between health center and hospital and for proper staffing, equipment and
training in health facilities to take care of referred obstetrical cases.
These specifications and procedures, which will become part of the Safe
Motherhood Strategy, are being drafted in conjunction with the preparation of



6
a Third Nutrition and Community Health Project for possible IBRD financing.
D. Sectoral Objectives and Strate&ies
1.14      Convergence between PoRulation and Health Policy.   The GOI's
development goals under REPELITA V accord high priority to improving equitable
access to high quality family planning services and reducing the burden of
high maternal and infant mortality.   Responsibilities for achieving these
goals are shared by DEPKES and BKRBN. There is an increasing convergence of
policy objectives and programmatic concerns between these two agencies. The
success of the family planning program over the last 15 years brings the need
to reduce health risks surrounding birth into sharp focus. As BKKBN's
structure and program have become more stable, and the goals and objectives of
the family planning program more strongly institutionalized, the role of
DEPKES in assuring the availability of high quality, more effective family
planning methods and of services to reduce obstetric and perinatal risks
becomes increasingly critical to the achievement of broader health and
population goals. Moreover, it is clear that BKKBN has been able to develop
effective approaches to IEC, community participation, program planning and
budgeting, and mechanisms to work across multiple agencies, that are of
possible use to maternal health objectives. The GOI's broad interest in
greater decentralization suggest that efforts to improve coordination among
all development activities including those of DEPKES and BKKBN must
concentrate at the provincial and district levels. Particular aspects of each
agency's objectives and strategies which will require closer coordination are
described below.
1.15      Family Planning:   Obiectives and Strategies.  The Indonesian family
planning program has three broad objectives: (a) to expand contraceptive
coverage in accordance with government targets; (b) to promote continued use
of contraception; and (c) to institutionalize family planning and the small
family norm concepts by shifting responsibility for decisions about practicing
family planning to the individual, the family and the community. Five guide-
lines prevail in this program. Women under 30 years of age are advised to
have a maximum of two children and their first delivery should occur after age
twenty. Women over 30 and those with rhree or more children are advised not
to have any more children; they are encouraged to get longer lasting methods
of fertility control. Teenagers are encouraged to postpone marriage and their
first pregnancy by being presented with activities that provide alternatives
to marriage. In areas with high contraceptive use, programs are introduced to
improve the economic well being of the community, including income generating
activities.  Lastly, family planning motivation still needs to be strengthened
by improving old age security for couples.
1.16      The family planning Drogram strategy calls for utilization of an
array of government, non-government, private and community agencies, with a
strong commitment at every level of the program to meeting targets.   Those
receiving family planning services are assured of medical back-up, for which
funds are available in the budget. A climate of community support for family
planning is continuously reinforced through the cooperation of community and
religious leaders. In order to contribute to the economic advancement of



7
those families adhering to the small family norm, the program supports
activities, among family planning acceptors, which raise women's social and
economic status. The newest strategies comprise emphasis on reaching the
rapidly increasing number of young people and on KB Mandiri ("self-reliance in
family planning"), which seeks involvement of the private sector. New
approaches also include increased access to the most effective contraceptive
methods, targeting of specific groups which are the most reluctant to accept
contraception (low-income, uneducated, rural dwellers and urban slum groups),
and development and expansion of community midwives to make them the key
workers for family planning and maternal health.
1.17      Midwives Develonment:  Objectives and Strategies.  As mentioned
above, the first steps have been taken in the development of a Safe Motherhood
Strategy (para. 1.12). Formulation of the strategy is underway, with
financing from UNDP and technical support from WHO; this task also includes
an assessment of midwifery, of direct relevance to the project. Efforts to
clarify the roles of DEPKES, BKKBN, the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry
of Women in Development, as well as of non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
and the private sector are a responsibility of the mentioned committee.
Strategic objectives of central importance to future changes in maternal and
neonatal mortality include effective IEC activities to alert workers and
consumers to the concept of maternal health risk, and to promote changes in
birth and maternal health care behaviors, as well as referral procedures and
specification of responsibilities for TBAs, midwives, physicians and
community-based volunteers at village, health center, and district hospital
levels. An initial outline of the referral system currently envisioned is
included in Chart 2.
1.18      The safe motherhood strategy is based on the principle that the
community midwife will act as a 'linchpin' for safe motherhood activities at
the village level, in addition to expectations of an equally key role for her
in family planning delivery. In the next five years, the primary objective of
the community midwife strategy will be to: (a) define and clarify further her
functions and roles and, based on this review, assess and modify training
curricula and teaching materials; (b) review the deployment of midwives and
the supervisory and referral structures; and (c) strengthen midwives training,
including physical upgrading of schools and training of trainers. Current
policy is to have one midwife for each of Indonesia's 67,000 village units.
After adjusting for the number of villages in urban areas and accounting for
the number of previously trained midwives, there is a requirement of close to
44,000 community midwives, a number that considerably exceeds current midwife
training capacity (data on midwives presented in Annex 2).
E. Sectoral Issues
Issues in the Family Planning ProRram
1.19      Managing Strategic Change.  The challenges facing the family
planning program in Indonesia in this decade were analyzed in a sector report



8
carried out by the Bank./5 The study concludes that the family planning
program thus far has been highly successful, but is nov at a critical turning
point. After having achieved a remarkable acceleration in the last ten years,
family planning acceptance is currently at a medium level and unless proper
programatic redirection and sharpening are undertaken, there is a risk of
oroaram slow down, which could result in higher population growth rates than
those targeted and desirable. The family planning program has been based thus
far on a standard set of strategies and managerial principles that are applied
on a country-wide basis; this approach proved to be effective in the past two
decades, when contraceptive prevalence went from a very low level to the
present intermediate rate. However, expansion to less developed and more
sparsely populated provinces and outreach to poor and low education groups
call for strategy changes, including a variety of well targeted and refined
programs. Specific issues concerning the necessary program changes and their
implementation are discussed below.
1.20      The family planning program faces additional challenges resulting
from the rapid changes in the demographic composition of the Rrogram
clientele. There is now a large and growing number of older women who have
been using temporary methods (mainly pills) for prolonged periods. For health
reasons, as well as for increased contraceptive effectiveness, there is an
urgent need to realign the contraceptive mix toward permanent and other long
lasting methods. Second, the level oi women's schooling has increased and,
with it, the demand for higher quality of services and a wider choice of
methods. Education and economic improvements have also made it possible for
the program to begin encouraging certain groups to seek private family
planning services. Third, swelling numbers of underprivileged youth entering
reproductive ages will need tailor-made advice and easy access to
contraceptive services.
1.21      Enhancing the Contraceptive Mix.   Ensuring that a wide mix of
contraceptives, including those acting for long periods, are available, will
enhance the capacity of BKKBN to provide a choice of methods as acceptors
experience differing contraceptive needs throughout their reproductive lives.
A wide choice of contraceptives is also important for maintaining and
enhancing voluntarism in family planning. Proper counselling to women and
supervision of the degree of voluntarism in the program are essential to
preserve program quality and clients' acceptance. This will, however, place
additional requirements on the field staff and volunteers, and on the IEC
strategy, to ensure effective counselling on the advantages and disadvantages
of each method. It will also place increasing burdens on the training system,
to improve workers' effective skills in counseling and to increase the
dexterity of medical and paramedical providers in the clinical delivery of
each method.
1.22      FamilY planning services also face constraints due to
administrative weaknesses and incomplete coverage of the provincial health
/5 Indonesia: Family Planning Perspectives in the 1990's, World Bank Country
Study Series (Red Cover) ISSN: 0253-2123, Washington D.C., April 25, 1990.



9
services; these issues can not be resolved within the relatively narrow
context of family planning, but as part of health improvement efforts. In
order to alleviate the pressures placed on the overtaxed public health network
by the vast needs of the family planning program, BKKBN has sought the
cooperation of NGOs and private practitioners. These initiatives are of great
programmatic significance and should be vigorously pursued. NGOs have urban
service networks whose viability has already been demonstrated through several
small scale projects. Nonetheless, the contribution of the public health
services will still be essential during this decade because of the relatively
low, slow growing, and urban-biased private family planning sector capacity
and the need to provide safety nets for family planning clients who can not
afford the price of private sector services.   Lastly, family planning
expansion is constrained by the scarcity of midwives--who are the most
appropriate kind of health professional for dispensing several clinical family
planning methods, toget'er with other MCH care.
1.23      BKKBN's training oreanization will need to cope in the 1990. with
the administration of a great diversity of fellowships and training programs
for a rapidly increasing and varied staff--in both BKKBN and in other
implementing agencies. There are several outstanding needs for improvement of
this important program. First, because of the rapid growth in training
activities, BKKBN has not yet had time to establish a comprehensive monitoring
and evaluation system for in-service training; this is needed for quality
control. Second, the program would need to place more emphasis on continued
education for trainers in order to institutionalize the use of up-to-date,
innovative teaching methodology.
1.24      BKRBN has a Family Planning Information System established at
program inception, which has provided considerable support to program
management. However, as the family planning program matures and adjusts its
strategy, BKKBN acknowledges that its FPIS will need to evolve accordingly.
The present recording and reporting system does not produce all the
information required for adequate program management (e.g., to monitor new
private sector efforts). At the same time, BKKBN recognizes difficulties in
digesting and making use of all data routinely collected. The key problem
lies in facing the challenge to select and then rely upon an abbreviated set
of strategic indicators, using data gathered by a scaled down regular
recording system, while employing occasional surveys and other instruments to
gain additional information needed. The current use of the FPIS to follow
program operations in detail and to discern from it program effects and impact
has led to an ever increasing amount of data and processing requirements, with
diminishing returns. While computerization has been handled properly, it is
essential to face the problem of the kind and adequacy of the information that
is flowing through the system.
1.25      Several assessments of BKKBN's research activities have suggested
that the quality and relevance of research work could be improved by the
following measures: consolidating and reducing the number of ongoing
projects; focusing on a limited number of priority topics; strengthening
management and clarifying staffing requirements within BKKBN's three research
centers; and developing improved coordination among BKKBN staff involved in
research, including provincial level personnel. The Bank's family planning



10
sector study further suggested that BKRBN strengthen mechanisms to make
research more responsive to the needs of planners and programmers. Priority
should be given to research on how to reach the urban poor, KB Mandiri and NG0
efforts, and evaluation of projects designed to improve the well-being of
family planning acceptors. Formulation of a research agenda for the next five
years is needed.
1.26      BKKBN's already effective role in coordination will need to evolve
further to take into account the following issues: development of practical
and effective procedures to deal with NG0s, private providers and the
commercial sector, in order to foster further initiatives; and enhancement of
the programming process with central and provincial DEPKES, as part of the
preparation of annual implementation plans, in order to arrive at approximate
technical and financial requirements for the intensif-~cation and targeted
approaches of family planning services.
Issues in the Development of Community Midwives
1.27      The development and large scale implementation of a national
midwife training program presents several complex issues to health planners.
First, it raises two major planning iseues: (a) the need for a detailed
specification of the functions and roles of the midwife placed at village
level as well as in health facilities, in the context of the national Safe
Motherhood Strategy and for the appropriate design of service delivery models,
associated referral structures, and policies for the management of first level
obstetric emergency; and (b) ensuring a linkage with overall health human
resource planning at central and provincial levels. Second, the training and
deployment program for midwives brings up issues concerning the quality of
training, the quantity of trainees, and the need to upgrade training capacity.
1.28      Planning Issues.   Ensuring conzruence between the midwives
development prokram and other aspects of the national Safe Motherhood Strategv
presents a significant planning challenge to DEPKES. The deployment of
community midwives is a sensible approach to improve the accessibility and use
of safe delivery techniques and other priority MCH interventions at the
village level. However, as the program evolves and newly trained midwives are
posted in the villages, complementary adjustments will be needed in the
"standard operating procedures", as well as strengthening of the physical
conditions of health centers and district hospitals, to ensure that newly
trained midwives are confidently able to refer high risk cases. In addition,
there will need to be a review of skill requirements of physicians and other
district hospital staff for managing high risk cases referred to them, and to
provide both clinical and administrative supervision of midwife performance.
Development of revised guidelines concerning the links between the nurse
midwife and other providers, including local TBAs and obstetric/gynecological
professionals, will be another important factor in ensuring a workable
"referral network". The formulation of the revised guidelines must take into
account trends in the demand for MCH services, based on a realistic assessment
of likely consumer responses to the availability of community nurse midwives.
A clear plan is needed for informing the community about maternal risks and
availability of professional help.



1.29      As is well recognized by GOI, an effective Safe Motherhood Strategy
will involve, as in the ease of family planning, a multiple agency approach.
Thus, in addition to DEPKES's health services, local efforts in safe mother-
hood should continue to pursue and increase the best possible use of
institutions and agencies with infrastructure and a presence in the villages,
such as BKRBN, Ministry of Home Affairs, NGOs and local private practitioners.
Most importantly, safe motherhood plans should be consistent with various
cultural conditions. Lastly, the strategic choices concerning safe motherhood
would need to underlie the training program for midwives.
1.30      Improving Health Human Resource Planning.   Previous sector
analyses /6 and lessons from project experience highlight gaps in the health
system's capacity to develop and pursue reliable and comprehensive human
resource plans. Available data suggest considerable provincial level variance
in the supply of and demand for various types of medical and paramedical
personnel. Information systems for tracking and monitoring human resource
plans and training programs are not well established. These issues have
become more obvious in the preparation of plans for nurse midwifery training
and underscore the need to strengthen health personnel planning at all levels.
Guidance is needed from DEPKES on the preparation of appropriate provincial
level health personnel plans, clarifying institutional relationships between
agencies responsible for pre- and in-service training, responsibilities for
planning roles for provincial and local authorities and training institutions,
and assessing and removing duplication among different types of health
training institutions. Key health planning issues that would need to be
reviewed and resolved in the process of preparing annual implementation plans
for midwives training are listed in Annex 2. A final dimension of health
personnel planning concerns the capacity of provincial and local level health
offices to adjust in-service training and supervision routines to appropriate
health and cultural conditions found in each area.
Issues SRecific to Midwifery Training Propram
1.31      Quality of Midwifery.  The Government plans several steps to
improve the effectiveness of midwife training. The curriculum for the
training of community midwives was revised in 1988 and has been put in place
in selected schools since that time. A total of 8,000 midwives have been
trained under the revised curricula and have been taking up positions at the
field level since June, 1990. While a positive start, this curriculum needs
to be carefully evaluated on the basis of the experience of the newly trained
midwives. A first review and evaluation will take place as part of the
UNDP/WHO Safe Motherhood Assessment (results are expected by mid-1991).
Experience in Indonesia as el ewhere presents compelling evidence that
qualitative dimensions of provider skills significantly affect consumer
utilization of health services. Health providers (including midwives), who
lack confidence in their own skills, have insufficient practical, hands-on
experience or are unable to update their clinical skills through training,
/6   Indonesia Issues in Health Planning and Budgeting, Country Department V,
Asia Region, Report No. 7291-IND, February 28, 1989.



12
vill not be able to provide services of sufficient quality to attract consumer
use or change health related beliefs and behaviors. Age and local credibility
are also significant factors underlying perceived quality of care. To assure
appropriate levels of quality, the midwife training program will need four
major mechanisms for influencing and maintaining provider (midwife) qualitys
(a) selection and recruitment criteria for training and deployment programs;
(b) improvement of criteria and examinations for assessing clinical skills of
nurse midwife trainees; (c) review and revision, in close collaboration with
professional associations, of certification and licensing requirements for
professional accreditation; and (d) reformulation of in-service training
programs for updating and refreshing midwifery skills.
1.32      Quantity of Midwives.  Current plans for the training and
deployment of midwives are based on the broad goal of providing one midwife
for each of Indonesia's 67,000 villages. Current estimates of the total
requirements for midwives to meet this goal, adjusted for the numbers of
midwives currently available at the PUSKESMAS level, and excluding urban
areas, suggests a total requirement of about 44,000 midwives which may be
taken as a reasonable upper limit (estimates in Annex 2, Tables 2.1 and 2.2).
Although a useful start, this approach to estimating midwife requirements
includes several assumptions concerning current and projected workloads that
will need to be evaluated through experience. Assuming an average village
size of about 3,000, this desired coverage ratio implies that each midwife
would be responsible for assisting in meeting the family planning and maternal
health needs of about 480 married women of reproductive age and roughly 90
births per year, and the supervision/training of 4-5 traditional birth
attendants (coverage estimates in Annex 2, Table 2.3). Moreover, annual
placement plans will need to consider the growth in the numbers of married
women of reproductive age, as the potential demand pool, in specific
locations.
1.33      Institutional Training Capacitv and Standards.   The success of
these workers will depend fundamentally on the quality of their pre-service
training. In this context it is important to note that parallel projects are
being planned (under UNDP/WHO) to assess and develop capacity for midwife
training, including assessment of needs for training of trainers, physical
rehabilitation of training schools, and estimating requirements for training
equipment and materials. GC'I has estimated an upperbound training capacity in
the country for 55,400 midwifery students in the next five years, based on the
assumption that all nursing schools and academies (public and private, with or
without previous experience in midwifery training) participated in midwife
training. These estimates have not yet been adjusted for the physical and
teaching capacity of the schools or the adequacy of student numbers for field
practice. This number would be further tempered by the application of
specific norms for practical skills development, such as numbers of solo and
supervised deliveries, and numbars of intra-uterine device (IUD) insertions,
that student midwives should perform. The outcome of the ongoing UNDP/WHO
training capacity assessment exercise will need to include details on school
standards and accreditation procedures, specifying norms concerning
faculty/student ratio and other indicators of training quality.



13
II. LESSONS FROM PAST EXPERIENCE AND BANK STRATEGY
A. Background
2.1       To date, the Bank has financed four population projects in
Indonesia for a total of US$107.8 million and four projects in health and
nutrition amounting to US$156 million. As shown in Table 2.1, the first three
population projects have been completed and project performance audit reports
(PPARs) for two of them have beer done by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED). For the third population project, the project completion report (PCR)
was issued in 1989. In the health and nutrition sectors, the first two
projects have been completed and other three projects are still on-going.
PCRs have been issued for the First Nutrition (in. 1373-IND) and the
Provincial Health Projects (Ln. 2235-IND). The Bank has also conducted a
variety of informal and formal sectoral analyses including, in 1989, a
detailed study of planning and budgeting issues in the health sector and a
prospective study of the challenges and opportunities facing the family
planning program in the 1990s. Most recently, OED has sponsored a detailed
case study of the history of population lending in Indonesia./7
2.2       Much of the Bank experience in the sector in Indonesia has been
positive. The primary objectives set in the first four Bank population
projects were to assist BKKBN develop its family planning program initially in
easy to reach and densely populated areas and then proceed to cover the entire
country. These objectives were met. The first project reaffirmed the
commitment of GOI to family planning and contributed, together with other
international and bilateral aid agencies, to a program transition from a
clinic-centered approach to one based on an outreach network and community
mobilization. The second project was aimed at supporting and expanding the
national family planning efforts beyond Java and Bali; it also sought to
iacrease the mobility of family planning field staff to enable them to take
services to remote areas. Project inputs, in particular physical facilities
such as training centers and vehicles, played a major role in meeting
objectives. Without these facilities, extension of the family planning
program would not have been possible. The Third and Fourth projects had the
objective of consolidating gains in the program's physical capacity while
contributing to staff development and to complement other donors in various
innovative program aspects. These projects reached the planned objectives as
evidenced by the current strong BKKBN staff operating countrywide, the success
achieved by the agency in coordinating many departments and in mobilizing
communities and by the deep social and individual level of awareness about the
benefits of family planning. The challenge for future projects will be to
ensure that the successes in the initiation and extension of family planning
services are maintained and lessons learned, particularly concerning the role
of community institutions in achieving social and behavioral change, are
brought to bear on the problems of high maternal and perinatal mortality.
/7   Freedman, Ronald.  The World Bank and Indonesia's Population Program
Draft for discussion. June, 1990. Being processed.



14
This in turn will require a project strategy that revisits the needs for
improved clinical delivery of services, particularly for maternal care, and
enhances the capacity of the health system, as well as that of BKKBN, to
promote behavioral change through community mobilization.
2.3       The reviews of Bank experience in population assistance to other
countries by OED and several PRE reports from consultants and panels stress
the following factors as elements of success2 support to village level
activities, encouraging community involvement, allowing for flexibility in
component implementation in response to changes in the countries' environment
toward family planning, fostering of good donor coordination, and giving
proper attention and resources to fertility related programs within the health
services. All these factors have relevance for Bank assistance to Indonesia's
population sector and have been taken into account in formulating operations
in this sector.
2.4       Program Context.   Several features of the family planning program
and of the closely associated community health services described earlier help
explain Indonesia's success and are useful to bear in mind in assessing the
Bank's role in the sector. The family planning program enjoys continuing
strong political support from President Suharto and through him, the whole
political-administrative system. In addition, GOI in general and BKKBN in
particular, have developed a structure which facilitates communication and
mobilization at the grass-roots level. The POSYANDU concept (described in
para. 1.7) is an example of the use of grass-root mobilization techniques for
health and family planning. A tradition of strong and effective leadership
also goes a long way in explaining Family Planning success. (The current
BKKBN Chairman and most of the deputies have been in leadership positions for
more than 15 years.) Further, significant social and economic development in
Indonesia over the last 15 years has affected attitudes about marriage and
family formation and size. Availability of an extensive transportation and
communication network facilitated the expansion of family planning and, to a
lesser degree, basic health services. Moreover, GOI has been successful in
gaining and coordinating substantial donor assistance, particularly for the
family planning program (referred to below). GOI has also paid an increasing
share of the program costs over the years, and it is evidence of GOI's
commitment that BKKBN's budget was not reduced during the budget crises of the
mid-1980s. The health sector, on the other hand, continues to face shortages
of resources for basic operations and maintenance, and has not enjoyed the
same degree of donor support.
2.5       Other donors.   As mentioned above, the family planning program has
received financial and technical donor support since inception. Besides the
Bank, the two other major donors are USAID and UNFPA; the Government of the
Netherlands (GON) has also been providing significant aid in the form of
commodities, technical expertise and financing of pilot projects to test new
initiatives, particularly concerning NGOs and eommunity involvement. USAID is
planning to end its assistance (which has consisted of a diverse and talented
stream of technical inputs plus commodities, equipment and developmental costs
of new schemes) with a private sector family planning project (KB Mandiri) for
US$20 million now under implementation (the project period is 1990-1994). The
UNFPA has supported portions of the various program components and has tended



15
to concentrate its assistance on specific locations and provinces. The latest
project 1991-94 for US$25 million is mainly geared to 5 provinces of the Outer
Islands; in information, education and communication, financing is mainly for
design of approaches and prototypes (a matrix of other donor assistance is
presented in Annex 5). Both USAID and UNFPA have population offices and staff
in Jakarta. Donor coordination, which usually takes place in the context of
Bank population missions, is working satisfactorily. It consists of exchanges
of information on the respective plans of the agencies and on implementation
experiences. The projects of the UNFPA, USAID, GON and the Bank for the 1990s
are the product of frequent inter-agency consultations and have achieved a
remarkable degree of complementarity, as stated in the recent OED study.
B. Policy Dialogue and Prolect Experience
2.6       Policy Dialogue.   The Bank has conducted dialogue with the GOI at
the highest levels since the early days of the national family planning
program. Early coordination with other donors, particularly with USAID and
UNFPA, while not trouble-free, also established a basis for long run donor
interaction. The recent OED review concludes that while the Bank has had a
comparative advantage over other donors in its access to senior decision
makers and planners, it has been less effective in maintaining a dialogue on
details of the family planning program. This appears to be a function of a de
facto division of labor between the Bank and other donors. Bank population
projects tended to focus on the provision of hardware (buildings, furnishings,
equipment and vehicles). Ideas on software elements of the program, including
the design of IEC and training programs, suggestions for modification of
worker routines or managerial adjustments are generally attributed by GOI to
interactions with other donors and/or the technical assistance teams they
sponsored. In view of decreasing assistance by acme of the donors, the Bank
policy dialogue is shifting its content to progtan issues. However, this
would require an increase in the Bank's techrica&. resources. An important
finding of the OED study is that ressidential expertise with responsibility for
routine interaction with BKRBN could have led tc s more robust dialogue
concerning program quality and effectiveness, as opposed to the main concern
of Bank missions with the completion of infrastru;'ture.



Table 2.i: BANK OPERATIONS, SECTOR WORK AND EVALUATIONS OF PROJECT
PERFORMANCE IN POPULATION, HEALTH AND NUTRITION
Project                         Approval       Loan/Credit         Amount        Status
Date           Number         (US$ million)
Population
Population I                  03/28/72       Cr.  300         13.2            Closed
Population II                 06/30/77       Ln. 1472         24.5            Closed
Population III                06/10/80       Ln. 1869         35.0            Closed
Population IV                 03/07/85       Ln. 2529         35.1            Ongoing
Subtotal          107.8
Health and Nutrition
First Nutrition               03/01/77       Ln. 1373         13.0            Closed
Provincial Health             02/08/83       Ln. 2235         27.0            Closed
Second Health (Manpower
Development)                04/14/85       Ln. 2542         39.0            Ongoing
Second Community Health
and Nutrition               11/26/85       Ln. 2636        33.4             Ongoing
Third Health Project          04/25/89       Ln. 3042         43.5            Ongoing
Subtotal          155.9
Total:           263.7
Recent Sector Reports
Indonesia - Family Planning Perspect4ves in the 1990s;   A World Bank Country Study.
Washington, DC: World Bank. April, 1990.
Indonesia - Issues in Health Plar.ning and Budgeting; Report No. 7291-IND, February 28,
1989.
Proiect Performance Audit Reports (PPARs)
Report No. 3748 Population I (Credit 0300). May, 1985
Report No. 6276 Population II (Loan 1472). June, 1986
Proiect Completion Reports (PCRs)
Report No. 5757 First Nutrition Project (Loan 1373). June, 1985
Report No. n.a. Second Population Project (Loan 1472). September, 1985
Report No. 7564 Third Population Project (Loan 1869). December, 1988
Report No. n.a. Provincial Health Project (Loan 2235). June, 1990



17
2.7       The Bank's dialogue with GOI on health issues is less well
documented and remains at an earlier stage than is its interaction on
population policy. This is in part a function of a decision to focus the
first health project on a limited set of geographic and functional goals,
rather than embark on a sector-wide approach, and it may also be due to the
inherently more complex and multifaceted nature of any discussion of health
policy. Recently, however, the completed sector work on health planning and
budgeting has helped to focus Bank/DEPKES discussions on topics such as health
financing and methods for improving the use of human, financial and
information resources. Health projects, including both the Second Community
Health and Nutrition Project and the Third Health Project have helped to
highlight the complexity of the GOI decision to decentralize health services
and to clarify programmatic concerns in the context of the management and
operation of PUSKESMAS and POSYANDU.
2.8       Prolect Experience.   A review of recent PCRs and PPARs suggests
that the implementation of the past population and health projects has, on the
whole, been reasonably smooth in Indonesia, following some initial delays in
project execution. The first four population projects were heavily oriented
toward 'bricks and mortar' with 40 percent of all expenditures for buildings
and 26 percent for equipment, furniture and vehicles. The Bank loans funded
BKKBN headquarters and warehouses not only in Jakarta and the 27 provincial
capitals, but also in the 301 districts. Building programs were increasingly
well executed as BKKBN developed managerial capacity. Building quality was
higher than standard for GOI buildings and this has proven valuable in helping
maintain a good infrastructure base for the program. Project support for
vehicles facilitated staff mobility, of central importance to an outreach
based program, and support for the development of BKKBN's extensive training
infrastructure has helped in the formation of BKKBN's strong staff, as well as
in training staff of other implementing agencies. The first four population
projects also enabled the design of population education textbooks and
materials and financed introduction of population concepts in primary and
secondary schools and in non-formal education programs, which according to
recent evaluations may have contributed to the evident shifts in ideas about
family planning and reproduction among today's youth. A component of the
Fourth Population Project with KLH could not, however, achieve any improvement
in the Institutional capacity of KLH to lead in population policy formulation.
Both health and population project related technical assistance suffered from
delayed implementation and underutilization, although foreign training
components have been effectively implemented.
2.9       Recent analyses of health and population projects draw attention to
several important aspects of project supervision. Bank procedures and
reporting requirements in the first generation of population projects were
perceived to be inflexible and poorly matched to BKKBN's need to adjust the
use of available resources according to lessons learned in the early stages of
program development. The audit of the second project suggests that the Bank's
frequent concerns with BKKBN's several early reorganizations did not
adequately recognize the perhaps desirable tendency for BKKBN to change its
approach to keep up with rapid technical, social, economic, and people's
attitudinal changes in Indonesia. A conclusion from this experience is that



18
supervision should strike an appropriate balance between adherence to program
goals and objectives determined at appraisal and the need to adjust procedures
with experience. Second, recent evaluations draw attention to lack of
adequate indicators as to what targets project components should meet; in the
absence of such targets, performance judgments become rather subjective.
Last, past population and health projects have been criticized for
insufficient field visits during supervision, and the absence of a technical
preeence representing the Bank in Jakarta is seen to have constrained donor/
BKKBN/Bank coordination in key aspects of program implementation.
2.10      Inst4 tutional DeveloRment and Sustainability.  Assessments of the
impact of Bank lending on institutional development in the population and
health sectors present a mixed picture. On the one hand, the Bank population
projects which supported the evolution of BKKBN from its early days to its
current prestigious status have reinforced the lesson that institutional
development is a long-term process, with project impact likely to occur well
beyond completion of any single investment. Institutional objectives within
the health projects, including the goal of 'decentralizing' responsibility for
health planning and budgeting and improving coordination between human
resource training and service delivery goals have been difficult to achieve.
Recent evaluations suggest that institutional problems still constrain the
effectiveness of DEPRES, and that improvement in coordination between BKKBN
and DEPKES will be an important element of success in achieving further gains
in maternal and child health and in maintaining the family planning program.
The establishment of a financial, operational and administrative framework at
provincial level for ensuring robust PUSKESMAS and POSYANDU level health
services, including especially the delivery of clinical family planning
methods and the provision of essential obstetric services, is an institutional
development goal common to both subsectors which is worthwhile pursuing.
C. Implications for-Bank Stratews and Role
2.11      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  Although successfully implemented
in the last two decades, the family planning program in Indonesia is now at a
critical turning point. It needs: (a) a sharper focus on less deve±-ped parts
of the country; (b) outreach to poor and low educated groups; and (c)
coordinating integration with an effective maternal health program.
Investments which contribute to the reduction of fertility and maternal
mortality are clearly goals with strong links to the achievement of each of
the core objectives of the Bank country assistance strategy for Indonesia.
Continuing the pace of decline in Indonesia's fertility will contribute to
long term declines in the current rapid growth of the labor force and could
help achieve higher levels of productivity and income, consistent with the
maintenance of macroeconomic stability; it would also assist in the process of
assuring long term environmental stability. Both the family planning program
and community based health services are direct means of encouraging wider
participation of communities in the development process. Improving access to
family planning and priority maternal and child health services would also
directly contribute to improvement of opportunities for women, including
increased employment for young women as community midwives; availability of
family planning and reduced risk of maternal death would facilitate women's



19
education and employment. Better access of family planning and maternal
services among the urban poor and for people living in newly settled areas and
in coastal areas would contribute to improved welfare and to reduction of
poverty. Because of its past and current association with both population and
health sectors in Indonesia, the Bank is well placed to provide further
support to the government in its efforts to redirect the thrust of its family
planning program and expand its coverage.



20
III. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Obiectives
3.1       The broad goal of the project is to ensure that the Indonesian
family planning and midwifery programs have the financial, human and
managerial resources necessary to achieve the desired changes in family
planning strategy and midwifery development over the next five years. The
objectives of these changes are to decrease fertility and maternal mortality
in accordance with targets set in iPELITA V. The design and scope of the
project responds to GOt's decision to redirect family planning strategies and
strengthen efforts to improve maternal and child health services. To achieve
this purpose, the project would include two major parts: Part A would
strengthen the family planning program under BKKBN and Part B would assist
DEPKES in strengthening its policy and training capacity for the deployment of
midwives at the village level. The project would also support enhanced
coordination and joint operational planning between BKKBN and DEPKES.
3.2       The project is designed to respond to several of the major lessons
learned in previous population and health loans. First, in order to introduce
greater flexibility in the use of Bank support, a more participatory approach
to the design and implementation of specific project components, and to ensure
greater Bank involvement in the formulation of critical software elements of
the BKKBN program, the project includes financing for all the major program
components. Similarly, Part B would focus attention on the policy framework
for the development of community midwives, whose functions are essential for
improved family planning services and maternal health care. Both Parts A and
Part B would be reviewed on the basis of detailed annual implementation plans
fer- each component; preparation of these plans would allow needed flexibility.
Planned baseline surveys at project inception and specification of expected
outcomes for each component (see Annex 6) would help in carrying out annual
evaluations of project implementation, and should provide a basis for more
specific assessment of project impact overtime. Annexes 7-9 contain charts
describing the present situation regarding the various project components and
proposing solutions for resolving existing problems; the charts also indicate
the expected outcomes.
3.3       Part A would assist the BKKBN to continue to provide leadership in
coordinating high quality family planning services through the public sector,
NGOs and private providers and in extending family planning information and
services to hard to reach populations. To accomplish these goals, the project
would have the following specific objectives: (a) improve the accessibility
and utilization of family planning services and expand safe motherhood
promotion among the poor and hard-to-reach populations and enhance the mix of
contraceptives available to target populations; (b) strengthen BKKBN's IEC
strategy, promote the establishment of community groups among underserved
populations, and develop outreach programs to meet the needs of the youth; and
(c) adjuet BRKBN's staff development, personnel policies, program monitoring,
research capacity and field operations to support these strategic shifts.



21
3.4       Part B would assist DEPRES develop the work force needed to provide
services which would reduce the risks and incidence of maternal and neonatal
mortality, through community midwives who will be based in the villages and
will work in close collaboration with family planning workers, the staff of
health centers and subcenters TBAs, and village groups. The specific
objectives would be to: (a) clarify and resolve policy issues concerning
training and deployment of community midwives, including matters relating to
their qualifications, number and relationship to other elements of the health
and family planning service delivery system, and standards for midwife
training schools; (b) strengthen DEPKES capacity to train community midwives
through upgrading learning materials and tr&ining trainers; and (c) train a
portion (an estimated 16,000) of the total requirement for community midwives.
3.5       The project would be implemented during a five-year period
comprising Indonesia's fiscal years 91/92 to 95/96. Part A would be an
integral part of the national family planning program, complementing GOI's as
well as other donors' contributions. Part B would form the basis for the
development of community midwives. This will follow an ongoing assessment of
the midwife training policy and the development of a national safe motherhood
strategy, with funding from UNDP and technical assistance from WHO.
B. Proiect Description
3.6       Part A would be implemented by the BKRBN and Part B, by DEPKES.
Both Parts A and B would involve activities in different geographic regions of
the country, as summarized in the matrix shown in Table 3.1. Areas in which
both parts of the project are active were selected on the basis of above
average fertility and maternal mortality. Coordination, including joint
assessments and policy review of the two major parts of the project, would be
the responsibility of a Steering Committee on Family Planning and Safe
Motherhood supported in its work by Project Secretariats for Part A and Part B
which would be located in the BKKBN and DEPKES, respectively (details on
structure and functions of the Steering Committee are presented in para.
3.20).
Part A: Family Planning Program (BKKBN) (US$98.6 million net of contingencies)
Targeted Family Planning and Safe Motherhood Promotion Activities (US$28.9
million net of contingencies)
3.7       Equity in service delivery, as well as concern with maintaining the
demographic success of the family planning program, require a suitable balance
between more widespread private participation in family planning services and
availability of public family planning services among hard-to-reach
populations. At the same time, the increasing educational status and relative
aging of the population predict a growing demand for longer lasting
contraceptive technologies. Moreover, in spite of BKKBN success in extending
family planning services and information, several key groups remain out of
reach. Coastal villages are cut off from normal channels of services and
transmigration areas are also poorly served by basic social and health



22
services, including family planning. Methods for reaching such groups that
have been developed in recent years under the auspices of earlier Bank
financed projects and of other donors need to be extended. Couples living in
poor urban areas also have less access ti family planning services. Beyond
targeting family planning services toward underserved populations, it is
equally desirable for BKKBN to continue to develop its capacity to seek
cooperation from other agencies, including firms in the organized sector and
NGOs. Besides improving accessibility and utilization of family planning and
the promotion of safe motherhood services to be offered by several health care
providers (DEPKES, private practitioners and NGOS) this component would
enhance the effectiveness of the contraceptives mix. For all service
components discussed below the project would finance vehicles and boats,
equipment, materials, preparation and monitoring visits and seminars (travel
and per diem), local expert services and training for staff. The project
would also finance provision of about 500,000 doses of NORPLANT (currently the
only available contraceptive implant), 12,000 IUD kits, 6,000 gynecological
beds and 200 laporoscopes. During neaotiations. the Government gave
assurances that BKKBN would undertake a mid-project review of each
subcomponent addressed to particular target groups (exPected to begin in
September. 1993) and by May 31. 1994 would submit a report to the Bank with
recommendations for imvroving the reach of each tyRe of service.
3.8       Targeted Services.   The service subcomponents would be specially
designed to meet the particular family planning needs of each of the
underserved groups employing, in addition to public health services, both NGOs
and organized sector providers. A coastal areas subcomponent would be aimed
at approximately 2,000 villages in 127 districts to be selected on criteria
such as the lack of basic health and family planning services and low social
and economic status. Boats equipped to provide mobile IEC and services would
reach into these communities. A transmigration area service subcomponent
would target family planning services in about 740 transmigration units in 13
provinces, covering about 1.8 million people. In Poor urban areas of 11 major
municipalities, BKKBN would seek cooperation from NGOs and local authorities
to extend the reach of services. Each of these subcomponents would stimulate
local officials' and staff's involvement in the design of services,
information campaigns, specialized training and communications materials
targeted at each group.
3.9       Organized Sector.   Large and small firms are important sources of
family planning services for their employees. Encouraging industries to
provide these services requires dissemination of already developed and tested
service delivery models, additional or supplementary contraceptive supplies
and technical advice for running the services.   Support would be given through
the project to 2,250 firms in the organized sector for the improvement of
family planning services.



23
Table 3.1: GEOGRAPHIC COVERAGE BY COMPONENT AND TARGET GROUP
Part A: Targeted Family Planning                         Part B: Training
and Sale Motherhood Promotion                              Midwives
Coastal       Urban      Trans-       Organized    Safe          No. of       No.of
Areas         Poor L     migration    Sector       Mother-       Schools      Grad-
(No. of       No. of     Areas /b    (No. of      hood           (classes)   uates
Districts)    Munici                 Companies)  (No. of                    by end
Province                             palities                            Districts)                 project
D.I. Aceh                  7                       x                         10        7 (7)           560
North Sumatra              7            1          x           250           17        19 (19)        1,520
West Sumatra               5                       x
Riau                       5
Jambi
South Sumatra              4            1                       150          10         4 (6)          480
Bengkulu                   2                                                 4          1 ( 1)          80
Lampung                    2                       x           100            4        3 (3)           240
DKI Jakarta                            5                       250           5
West Java                  14           1                       250          24        14 (17)        1,360
Central Java               11           1                      225           35        12 (16)        1,280
D.l. Yogyakarta            3                                   100
EastJava                   15          1                       250           37        22 (22)        1,760
Bali                       7                                   100
West Nusa Tenggara         5                                    150           6         1 (1)           80
East Nusa Tenggara        11                                                 12        2(2)            160
East Timo-
West Kalimantan            3                                                  7
Central Kalimantan         3                       x
South Kalimantan           3                       x            100
East Kalimantan            4                       x
North Sulaweel                                     x            100
Central Sulawesi           4                       x            75
South Sulawesi             8           1           x            150          6         9 (9)           720
Southeast Sulawesl         4                       x                          4         2 (2)          160
Maluku                                             x
Irian Jaya                                        x
Total                     127          11        740          2,250         181        98 (107)       8,560
No. of Provinces          21           7          13            14           14          13
/a Cities are Jakarta, Medan, Palembang, Bandung, Semarang, Surabaya and Ujung Pandang.
& Transmigration units are called UPTs, distribution within provinces to be determined.



24
3.10      Safe Motherhood.  Family planning is itself a major intervention to
reduce maternal health risks. To complement the availability of family
planning methods and examine the applicability of community mobilization and
IEC methods that have proven effective in promoting greater utilization of
family planning methods. BKKBN would carry out a Safe Motherhood subcomponent
in 14 provinces and selected municipalities of Jakarta, to encourage women to
seek pre-and postnatal services offered, as mentioned earlier, by various
health care providers. Safe motherhood messages would be developed by BKKBN
in coordination with DEPKES and they would be integrated into BKKBN's ongoing
income generating projects. This component would provide a context for
developing and testing models for interaction between family planning field
workers and community midwives working in the DEPKES system as well as under
NGOs or privately. Prior to negotiations. GOI submitted to the Bank a
description of the agreed division of responsibilitv for Safe Motherhood
between DEPKES and BKKBN. which was found satisfactory.
3.11      Enhancement of Contraceptive Method Mix.  It is important to ensure
that the choice of contraceptive technology is appropriate for the particular
life cycle stage and needs of the couple. While young families are likely to
be most satisfied with temporary methods, such as the pill or condom, older
families and those which have completed their desired family size will more
likely benefit from longer acting contraceptives, such as IUDs, contraceptive
implants or sterilization. Accessibility of such longer acting methods would
be increased from about 28 to 40 percent. Activities to promote the
enhancement in the method mix would include provision of specific training in
each of the methods, including both clinical and counseling skills
development, to about 3,000 doctors and 3,000 midwives and for about 6,000
BKKBN fieldworkers. The training would take rlace at regional training
centers.
3.12      Information. Education and Communication and Youth Outreach
(US$19.2 million net of contingencies). BKKBN has been particularly
successful in developing strategies to provide IEC about family planning over
the years. Past efforts have used mass media, including films and video, as
well as a variety of different interpersonal and community-based activities.
The development and support of VCDCs and family planning acceptor groups at
the village level have been shown to be particularly valuable community-based
activities in about 13 provinces. The group approach would be applied to
ensure that young people are involved with and active in family planning and
related issues at an early age. Moreover, planning and evaluation for both
mass media and community participation activities need to be adjusted as
BRRBN's broad program strategy shifts toward more deliberate romotion of the
use of privately provided services, and the extension of services to hard-to-
reach populations. This component would finance professional development of
IEC design personnel, including fellowships for short term (16 staff months)
overseas training in IEC planning, management and evaluation, local expertise
and consulting services to facilitate audience research and improved message
design and production, the development of new prototype IEC materials,
equipment and materials for the establishment of 187 Media Information Units
in districts which do not yet have such capacity, and provision for about
45,000 IEC kits for use in interpersonal comunication by fieldworkers. In



25
addition, the component would use group formation techniques to encourage
youth participation, impart family life education to youth groups, and extend
the VCDC approach in currently unserved areas.
3.13      Institutional DeveloDment. (US$49.8 million net of contingencies).
BXRBN's success in adjusting the direction of its program will depend on the
degree to which the efficiency of its services can be improved; this would
mainly be accomplished through skills improvements, enhanced capability for
monitoring and research within BRKBN and expansion of normal field operations
including rehabilitation of selected administrative facilities and the
provision of new and replacement vehicles for normal operations.
3.14      Staff Development and Training (US$25.2 million net of
contingencies). This is a large scale staff development program, directed at
upgrading all types of skills of BKKBN staff and other agencies, including
leadership development. Its objective is to enhance the capability of BKKBN
to manage and support the family planning program at all levels. There are
three major training subcomponents described below.   A sDecialized training
subcomponent would focus on improving the quality of service delivery through
upgrading the skills of management, health and field workers, through
national, provincial and district training. Management training would be
provided for about 3000 staff covering major aspects of program operations,
including supply, inventory and logistics, and manpower administration. Pre-
service training for about 3000 field workers (21 days) and refresher courses
(7 days) for another 13,250 field workers would serve to introduce new program
strategies. Career promotion prospects would be enhanced through local
fellowships in health skills for about 3,000 field workers (Annex 7 provides
further details on all programs planned, number of trainees, institutions
responsible and duration of training). Special attention would be given to
introducing innovative teaching techniques, and to a system for evaluation and
monitoring of training programs to increase quality control. There would also
be a review of the qualifications of the current training staff and of the
need for more and/or differently qualified staff. An in-countrL fellowship
grogram would consist of short-term (300 participants) and long-term (1,699
staff years) training programs for BKKBN family planning technicians and
managers. An overseas traininft subcomponent, based on a detailed needs-
assessment, would provide 320 staff years of training at the master's level
and 50 staff years of doctoral studies aimed at developing future middle level
management and technical experts for BKKBN. Job placement of graduates would
coincide with their new skills.    An International Training Program would
organize two workshops per year to improve the curriculum and teaching
materials for courses which BKKBN offers to participants from other countries.
The project would enhance the BKKBN's staff development planning capacity
through the revision of a computerized personnel data system, a detailed j.1b
analysis designed to maximize the use of available manpower, and leadership
assistance in less successful provinces. During negotiations. the Government
gave assurances that by September 15. 1991 BKKBN would contract the
administrative and academic monitoring. financial management and personal
counseling of Indonesian students with fellowships financed from the loan, to
specialist agencies in the countries where students are located.



26
3.15      Program Monitoring asd Research (US$8.2 million net of
contingencies). Although BKKBN hae made considerable progress in program
monitoring, several weaknesses remain, which may be exacerbated as the overall
program strategy shifts. For instance, the goal of delivering services to
hard-to-reach groups is likely to place considerable strain on the BKKBN's
current approach to program monitoring, identification of research needs, and
effective dissemination of results. The challenge will be to select and then
rely on a set of strategic indicators using data generated by a scaled down
reporting system, while employing occasional surveys and other instruments to
gain additional information. The project would fund a major assessment of
BKKBN's overall information needs and data collection and utilization, taking
into account the emerging program strategy. During netotiations the
Government gave assurances that no later than July 31. 1991 BKKBN would
contract services. for 24 person-months, of an experienced intormation systems
expert acceptable to the Bank. in accordance with TORS included in Annex 10.
to undertake a review of BKKBN's overall FPIS including information needs.
data collection and utilization. Disbursement from the Loan for the FPIS sub-
component would be conditional to completion, satisfactory to the Bank. of the
first phase of the assessment of the system (expected to be completed about 12
months after initiation). Research management will be increasingly complex as
the breadth and focus of BKKBN's program widens and the need for timely and
relevant research to guide program development grows. This agency would,
through the project, shift its approach to research planning and management to
an annual cycle. This would assist in creating stronger linkages between the
research program and annual plans, and would facilitate more systematic local
peer, as well as Bank review of proposed research. The project would cover
the costs of 2-3 research packages per year. A draft of the proposed research
plan for the first year wa& submitted by BKKBN before negotiations. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that by September 15 of each
year. in the context of the annual implementation plans. BKKBN would prepare
research *ackages which would constitute in-depth research proposals coverin,
obiectives, rationale and linkages with BKKBN's overall research strategy an'.
Rriorities The project would finance per diem and travel for meetings and
workshops to redesign the FPIS, equipment including computers, network
servers, software, related training, technical assistance, one round of the
NICPS, a study on BKKBN's successful organization and management (TOR included
in Annex 10), other surveys, data analysis and studies.
3.16      Field ODerations (US$16.4 million net of contingencies).    As BKKBN
enters its 20th year of operation, many of the buildings constructed and
vehicles purchased in the early years of the program now need rehabilitation
or replacement. In addition, operations and staff have expanded without a
corresponding increase in facilities or equipment. Therefore, under the
project, provincial and district BKKBN offices would be rehabilitated and in
some cases expanded. Expansion would occur where the floor area of the
existing facilities is less than 7 square meters per staff member (well below
the BAPPENAS standard for Government offices of 10 square meters per staff
member). About 23,500 square meters of additional office space would be
constructed. Vehicles (including 689 four-wheel, and 1,736 two-wheel vehicles
and boats for the coastal area component) would be purchased through ICB to
replace older vehicles that cannot economically be repaired and to provide



27
transportation for new officers and fieldworkers. Manual typewriters and
mimeograph machines would also be purchased to replace obsolete equipment and
provide additional items where needed.
Part B - Midwives Development (DEPRES) (US$31.0 million net of contingencies)
3.17      Strengthening of Policy Framework (US$0.9 million net of
contingencies). The GOI affirmed its decision to promote the training and
deployment cf midwives during the preparation of REPELITA V and has strived
since to generate consensue on the broad objectives and principles that will
govern the development of this category of worker. Nevertheless, there are
several aspects uf midwife training policy that need further maturation and
review. The project would finance improvements in the following policy
related details: (a) linkage with current and future referral structures; (b)
midwives' certification and licensing policies; (c) procedures for selection,
recruitment and posting of new midwives; and (d) definition of indicators and
instruments to evaluate clinical and managerial skills of community midwives
at the conclusion of pre-service training and on an ongoing basis. The
project would also enable GOI to administer the following: (a) formulation of
program guidance to provincial and regency level administrators; (b)
coordination mechanisms of DEPKES with BKKBN and the Ministry of Home Affairs
on the distribution and use of civil service posts for midwife deployment; and
(c) coordination with other health personnel planning activities.
Responsibility for the development, regular review and dissemination of a
midwife training policy would be assigned to a Steering Committee on Safe
Motherhood and Family Planning which would be the coordinating body for the
project, as described in para. 3.20. In addition, DEPKES would designate the
Directorate of Family Health as the Project Secretariat for Part B (functions
and staffine described in Section C below). Under this component, local and
foreign consultants, per diem and travel costs, research and equipment and
materials would be financed.
3.18      StrengtheninR Training Capacity (US$2.6 million net of
contingencies).   Available data indicate that current nursing school
faculties will need refresher training in midwifery as well as new and updated
learning equipment and training materials. The UNDP/WHO assessment should
provide a detailed review of the physical characteristics of training schools,
learning materials and equipment requirements, and needs for supplementation
or enhancing trainers skills and/or school administration. In addition, it is
essential to strengthen standards of accreditation for institutions which
would be participating in midwifery training. The project would provide for
the costs of training of trainers, the development and implementation of a
refresher training program for trainers in schools already experienced in the
midwifery program, local and foreign consultants and for new learning
equipment and materials for each of the schools participating in the training
program. At negotiations the Government gave assurances that DEPKES would
review, improve and implement no later than December 31. 1992. guidelines on
the certification and licensing of community midwives and on accreditation of
nursing schools for midwife training.
3.19      Training and Improving the Effectiveness of Community Midwives
(US$26.2 million net of contingencies). Detailed specification of the types



28
and numbers of procedures that a graduating midwife will need prior to being
posted to the village level, and of examination and certification methods for
assuring this level of skill will enhance the effectiveness of the newly
graduated midwife and will provide an important device for monitoring the
quality of training over time. The project would provide for the costs of
training new midwives in 13 provinces listed in Table 3.1. Training support
would be provided to schools which have already had some experience in
midwifery training. The project would supporv all direct and indirect
training costs for about 16,000 midwives including civil service training,
transport to and from schools, settlement costs, the provision of midwife and
IUD kits for all graduates, and cost of deployment and initial field back-up
once they are placed in villages. During negotiations. the Government rave
assurances that midwifery trainina suport from the loan would be restricted
to midwifery students who would train and work in the provinces listed in
Table 3.1 under Part B and that midwifery training classes would emphasize
oractical training in family Rlanning methods and actual deliveries. The
project would also ptovide for the operational research and evaluation
activities including the improvement of certification and licensing guidelines
for midwives and of accreditation for nurse midwives's schools. Submission by
GOI. of recommendation. from the ongoing UNDP/WHO study of midwifery training
capacity would be a condition of disbursement for the regular-annual training
of midwives i-nder Part B.
C. Project Implementation and Management
3.20      Status of Proiect Pregaration. A Bank project appraisal mission in
August, 1990 made a detailed assessment of a proposal for Part A, which had
been initially prepared by BKKBN in September, 1989, and subsequently revised
in March, 1990 after review by a Bank pre-appraisal mission. The appraisal
mission concurred with BKKBN on the details of a five-year project which is
aimed at complementing GOI and other donors contributions to the national
family planning program. The mission reviewed the national family planning
budget for FY 91-92; Prior to negotiations, the Government provided the DUP
for Parts A and B of the project for FY91-92 which would be the first year of
the project. Part B--development of midwives under DEPKES was identified
during the Bank pre-appraisal mission in March 1990. The Bank missions
concluded that the present government policy of developing a restructured
category of midwife is an appropriate response to the needs of maternal and
family planning services; further, the mission considared that a full
assessment of the situation concerning midwives employment, supervision and
training should be conducte'. After mission discussions with BAPPENAS. DEPKES
and UN specialized agencies, it was agreed that a detailed assessment of the
current curriculum, needs for physical upgrading of training schools,
requirements for teaching materials and equipment, and alternatives for
training of trainers should be conducted. This study is currently underway
under WHO technical guidance and UNDP financing and is expected to be
completed in mid-1991. It also includes a National Safe Motherhood Action
Plan. Concerning construction in this project, it will consist of modest
remodeling and extension of existing BKKBN buildings, which will start during
the second year of the project; this agency has extensive experience with Bank
projects and has an efficient unit for handling corstruction and procurement.



29
Terms of reference for all technical assistance and major studies included in
the project were reviewed by the appraisal mission. The amount of foreign
technical assistance to be procured under the loan--about 2% of loan amount--
is confined to specialties and experience requirements not available from
local consultants (Details in Annex 14).
3.21      Proiect Organization and Management.   The Family Planning and Safe
Motherhood Steering Committee described in para. 3.16 would be the
coordinating task force for the project. It woL'd consist of representatives
from DEPRES's Directorate General of Community Health, the Center for Health
Manpower Training, the Bureau of Planning, the Bureau of Personnel
Administration, BKKBN, and BAPPENAS. Representatives of the Ministry of
Interior, the National Civil Service Administration Board, the Office of State
Ministry for Civil Service Deployment and the Indonesian Midwife Association
(IBI) would be invited to participate in meetings as necessary. The
Government presented to the Benk before negotiations a satisfactory
description of the runctions of the Steering Committee on Family Planning and
Safe Motherhood and draft decree of formal appointment of the Steering
Committee as well as a schedule of meetings for the first year of the project.
At negotiations the Government gave assurances that it would maintain the
Steering Committee until completion of the proiect, that the Committee would
be responsible for Rroiect coordination, and that it would meet at least two
times a year. The Steering Committee would be chaired by BKKBN's Chairman;
the Co-Chairman would be the Director General for Community Health Services,
DEPKES, and other members would be Echelon I officials from BKKBN, DEPKES and
other relevant agencies; BAPPENAS would review the agenda and monitor a yearly
schedule of at least two meetings of the Committee. Project implementation in
the provinces would be under the responsibility of the respective Provincial
Chairmen for BKKBN and Provincial Health.
3.22      Part A:  BKKBN's Chairman would be responsible for project
implementation; under his general guidance the project would be coordinated
among the various Bureaus by the Deputies. The Deputy for Planning
(Echelon I) would be responsible for administration and monitoring and under
him, a Project Secretariat would be created. The Secretariat would consist of
the following contract staff who would be appointed on a full-time basis for 5
years (the project duration) to work exclusively for this project. One
Project Director (at a rank equivalent to Bureau Chief), one Financial Officer
and supporting staff. Terms of Reference for the BKKBN project Secretariat
were reviewed and agreed upon at negotiations.    The Government rave
assurances that it would create and appoint BKKBN's Prolect Secretariat by
July 31. 1991. Civil works will be administered in the same manner as under
the Population IV project, monitored by the Project Secretariat.
3.23      Part B:  The Director General, Community Health, DEPKES would be
responsible for project implementation. Under him, the Director of Family
Health would be the Project Director and this directorate would act as the
Project Secretariat with the function of guiding policy formulation, providing
technical support to both midwifery policy work and training and managing the
implementation of the midwives training program. Six contract staff would be
appointed to this unit on a full-time basis for S years (the project
duration): 2 senior nurses/midwives with expertise in administration (one to



30
be an internationally recruited midwife and one to be recruited nationally),
one staff development expert, one administrator (procurement and finance) and
two clerks. The terms of reference for DEPRES Project Secretariat were
reviewed and agreed upon at negotiations. The Government rave assurances that
it would create and aRpoint DEPRES' Proiect Secretariat by July 31. 1991.
3.24      Implementation Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a
period of 5 years. starting April 1. 1991 and ending March 31, 1996,
coinciding with Indonesia's fiscal years. A project implementation schedule
is presented in Annex 13. This schedule, as well as the detailed cost tables,
will provide the general framework for preparing annual implementation plans
by BKKBN and DEPRES, which will be reviewed by the Bank in October of each
year, coinciding with the annual GOI planning process. The Project completion
would be on March 31, 1996 and the loan closing date would be September 30,
1996.
D. Proiect Planninz. Evaluation and Supervision Strategy
Annual Plans
3.25      Part A of the project involves each of the major units and agencies
within BRKBN. Several of the components include innovative activities or new
approaches as, for instance, in the provision of services to underserved and
hard-to-reach areas. Moreover, project components cover differing geographic
areas and will involve close cooperation with a range of different public and
private implementing agencies. Part B of the project, although less complex,
involves a direct and significant intervention into DEPKES' MCH programs which
are themselves currently undergoing considerable evolutionary change. Part B
would also be implemented in the context of considerable adjustments to
current provincial and central level staff planning procedures and content.
Given the complexity of the project and the evolutionary policy framework in
which (especially Part B) is to be implemented, the Government gave assurances
at negotiations that BKKBN and DEPKES would prepare Annual ImRlementation
Plans for Part A and B respectively which will include oerformance and
process indicators for each component. These plans would be submitted to the
Bank by September 15 of each year: these clans would subseauentlv be discussed
by the Bank during review missions that would take place in October of each
year. This timing is tied to BKKBN and DEPKES budget processes.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.26      Monitoring and evaluation of project activities would be key to
assuring effective implementation of the project. Three major types of
monitoring and evaluation that would be conducted are described below.
3.27      Monitoring and semi-annual review of key institutional development
obiectives for the FPIS. research, and personnel development components of
Part A and for the policy framework component in Part B. It is expected that
activities to be conducted during the first year of the project would provide
specific suggestions and details on the content of indicators to be used for
routine process and performance monitoring. "'or instance, one outcome of the



31
FPIS review will be suggestions and an operational plan for routine monitoring
of the performance of private providers in family planning. Similarly, during
the first year of the project, DEPKES will reach agreements concerning
certification requirements and examination guidelines for the evaluation of
the quality of midwife training in years 2-5 of the project. In addition, the
annual review of each year's proposed research program for Part A will provide
a way of monitoring BKKBN's capacity to target research efforts to priority
operational issues.
3.28      Annual Implementation Plans would be prepared for both Part A and
Part B by each of the Project Secretariats and submitted to the Bank for
review prior to a regularly scheduled Annual Review mission to be held in
October of each year. Each plan would be monitored regularly according to the
dates agreed for each of the actions and also reviewed annually. Monitoring
of field operations in Part A would consist of measurement of progress of
procurement of equipment, transport and materials (including contraceptives)
and provincial distribution, utilization and maintenance. The annual plans
would include, for Bank review, a list of the bidding packages proposed for
procurement in the subsequent year. Assurances were obtained from the
Government at negotiations that each of the Proiect Secretariats would Prepare
annual progress reports which would be coordinated and reviewed by the
SteerinR Committee for Family Planning and Safe Motherhood and forwarded to
the Bank for review by September 15 of each year.
3.29      Third, although an evaluation of the project's direct impact on
fertility and maternal or infant mortality is not feasible because of
multiple factors beyond the scope of the project that influence impact
variables, monitoring and evaluation would include a semi-annual review of a
selection of Rerformance indicators for each of the omponents of Part A and
Part B. For Part A, evaluation of performance would be done on the basis of
data to be collected through FPIS as well as from planned baseline surveys and
special studies supported under the research component. The IEC component
would be evaluated through routine small studies of awAreness creation and
message impact on key audiences (details to be specified in each Annual Plan).
The project would also finance a new system for the evaluation of BKKBN
managed training programs aimed at routine assessment of training
effectiveness. Performance indicators for Part B of the project would include
routine assessments of total training intake, drop out rates, and the match
between placements of midwives and the demographic and epidemiological
criteria to be developed for the selection of village sites for new
deployments. Annual qualitative assessments of consumer response and
utilization of the newly placed midwives would be conducted in selected
provinces to facilitate routine consideration of trends in the demand for
midwifery services and implications for midwife productivity. Evaluation of
contraceptive prevalence and estimates of fertility changes, although not
directly attributable to the project but generally indicative of program
progress, would be done through periodic contraceptive prevalence surveys to
be implemented by GOI in 1991, 1993 and 1997 (the latter would be financed
through the project and it is expected that all preparatory activities would
be finished before project completion in 1996). These surveys are designed to
provide data representative at the district level, and would therefore
facilitate review of overall program performance in project areas.



32
Supervision StrateQy
3.30      Building on the major conclusions of the review of past population
lending in Indonesia. and to facilitate close interaction with Project
Secretarist. In DEPKES and BKKBN and with the coordinating Steering Co- ittee,
as well as with other donors, the Bank votild seek support for the placement of
a long term expert in family planning administration and MCH in RSI to manage
day to day review of project progress. In addition, Bank staff would conduct
an annual review of project implementation through a supervision mission
around October of each year at an estimated cost of 9 SWs and a smaller semi-
annual supervision mission in April of each year at an average cost of 5 SWs,
for a total of 14 SW. for field supervision annually. An additional 5 SW8 per
year would be planned for headquarters based supervision.
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Costs
4.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$148.4 million
equivalent. The estimated cost by project component is summarized in
Table 4.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 4.2. (Detailed project
costs by year, purpose and components are given in Annex 11)
4.2       Baseline costs are estimated at July, 1990 prices.   Civil works
costs are based on average square meter construction costs in the provinces
and on the areas required to bring BKRBN's provincial and district office
buildings up to acc.ptable standards. Equipment, vehicles, instructional
materials and contraceptives estimates are based on costs currently being paid
for similar items under the ongoing project. Capacity-building technical
assistance costs are also based on recent costs for comparable technical
assistance in the ongoing project. Costs for consultants include salaries,
allowances and travel. Unit costs for overseae fellowships are estimated from
about US$11,500 per month for short-term training to US$26,500 per year long-
term inclusive of inter-national travel. Local long-term training costs range
from Rp 3,400,000 to 5,000,000 per year. Short-term local training cost" vary
widely depending on the type of training being given and its location.
Operational costs were based on standard allowances for salaries, consumables,
travel and honoraria.
4.3       Project costs include a continaencv allowance of US$18.8 million
for unforeseen physical conditions and for estimated price increases.
Physical contingencies are estimated at about 3.21 of total baseline costs.
Annual price contingencies have been *alculated for local costs at 6.0X and
for foreign costs at 3.2Z throughout.
4.4       The foreign exchange component of US$78.3 million (about 52.82 of
total estimsted project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the
following estimated foreign exchange percentages. equipment, vehicles and
instructional materials--lOO1; contraceptives--100Z; local training--70Z;
overseas fellowships. technical assistance, and research and evaluation--lOOZ;
project development and deployment--65Z.



33
Table 4.1: SIM4ARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMMPOENT
Rp                             USS                          Total
* *------ *-----------------   *-........................... X Foreign     Base
Local   Foreign     Total      Local  Foreign    Total     Exchange     Costs
...... .................... ...................................  ....... .....................  ............................................
Part A
1. Family plaming services & safe motherhood pronotion
1. Coastal areas               3414.0    2919.2    6333.1         1.8      1.5     3.3         46.1       2.6
2. Transmigration areas         4479.8   1574.3    6054.1         2.4      0.8     3.2         26.0       2.5
3. Poor urban areas             1630.4    520.0    2150.4         0.8      0.3      1.1        24.2       0.9
4. Organized sector             2240.8    652.6    2893.4         1.2      0.3      1.5        22.6       1.2
5. Safe motherhood promotion    3903.0   2480.0    6383.0         2.1      1.3     3.4         38.9       2.6
6. Enhancement of method mix    4109.0  27099.7   31208.7         2.2     14.2     16.4        86.8      12.7
............... ............................................... .............. ........ .............................  ....................
Sub-Total                         19777.0  35245.8   55022.7        10.5     18.4    28.9         64.1      22.3
11. JEC strategy & establishment of coamunity groups
1. IEC strategy                7674.8   19796.3   27471.1         4.0     10.4    14.4         72.1      11.2
2. Youth participation         4469.7    1493.3    5963.0         2.4      0.8     3.1         25.0       2.4
3. Couummity groups             2553.2    504.9    3058.2         1.3      0.3      1.6        16.5       1.2
Sub-Total                         14697.7  21794.6   36492.3         7.7     11.5    19.2         59.7      14.8
111. Institutional development
1. Staff development          23922.7   24008.1   47930.7        12.6     12.6    25.2         50.1      19.5
2. Monitoring & research        7430.6   8103.6   15534.2         3.9      4.3     8.2         52.2       6.3
3. Field operations            9171.4   21986.4   31157.9         4.8     11.6     16.4        70.6      12.6
........... ................... . . -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -  ------.-.--....-----.----..--.. ............ . . ................
Sub-Total                        40524.7   54098.1   94622.8        21.3     28.5    49.8         57.2      38.4
part B
1. Development of midwives
1. Strengthen Policy framework  1258.8    542.3    1801.1         0.7     0.3      0.9         30.1       0.7
2. Strengthen training capacity 860.1    4083.0    4943.1         0.4      2.1     2.6         82.6       2.0
3. Training of midwives        31846.6  18051.5   49898.1        16.8     9.5     26.2         36.2       2.3
...... ................... ............... .................. .............. .............................  ....................
Sub-Total                         33965.5  22676.8   56642.3        17.9     11.9    29.8         40.0      23.0
Prolect manaaement aL
I. BKKBN (Part A)                 1200.6     217.2    1417.9         0.6     0.1      0.7         15.3       0.6
11. DEPKES (Part B)               1800.9     334.9    2135.8         1.0     0.2      1.2         15.7       0.9
........ ........................  .......................................................  ....................
Sub-Total                         3001.5     552.2    3553.7         1.6     0.3      1.9         15.5       1.4
Total BASELINE COSTS             111966.5  134367.4  246333.9       59.0     70.6   129.6         54.3     100.0
Physical Contingencies         3511.7    4253.8    7765.5         1.8      2.3     4.1         54.8       3.2
Price Contingencies            17746.5  10221.1   27967.7         9.3     5.4     14.7         38.9      11.4
....... ......................... ......... ...................  ..... .......... . ..... ......  -- -----------
Total PROJECTS COSTS             133224.6  148842.3  282067.0       70.1     78.3   148.4         52.8     114.5
gi: Includes taxes and duties of USS4.9 million equivalent.



"**==>This document did not complete OCR process. <==**" 
