Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16801
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH POPULATION PROJECT
(FAMILY PLANNING AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD)
LOAN 3298-IND
June 26, 1997
Population and Human Resources Division
East Asia and Pacific Department
East Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Rupiah
At Appraisal in 1990
US$1.00 = RP 1,901
Rp 1 million = US$ 526
Annual Average
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
1,950   2,030   2,080   2,160    2,237   2,372
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BDDs               Village Midwives
BKKBN              Family Planning Coordinating Board
DHS                Demographic and Health Survey
GOI                Government of Indonesia
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IEC                Information, Education and Communication
LSS                Life Saving Skills
MIS                Management Information System
MOH                Ministry of Health
NGOs               Non-Government Organizations
NOLs               No Objection Letters
NPV                Net Present Value
TFR                Total Fertility Rate
Vice President    Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director          Marianne Haug, EA3DR
Division Chief    Samuel Lieberman, EA3PH
Task Manager      Fadia Saadah, EA3PH



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface .......i
Evaluation Summary...............ii
PART I: PROJECT EVALUATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement of Objectives .I
B. Achievement of Objectives                                      .2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                               .7
D. Project Sustainability                                      .8
E. Bank Performance                                           .9
F.     Borrower Performance ........................................................................................................10
G. Assessment of Outcome .10
H. Future Operations .10
I. Key Lessons Learned .11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:       Summary of Assessment ........................................                    13
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans ...............................................................................................15
Table 3:  Project Timetable                                      .16
Table 4:       Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .16
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6:  Studies Included in Project .19
Table 7A: Project Costs .22
Table 7B: Project Financing .22
Table 8:  Status of Legal Covenants .23
Table 9:       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................                                 24
Table 10:  Bank Resources: Missions .25
PART III: BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT ..............................                                   26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Family Planning and Safe Motherhood)
LOAN 3298-IND
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fifth Population Project
(Family Planning and Safe Motherhood), for which Loan 3298-IND in the amount of US$ 104
million equivalent was approved on March 5, 1991 and made effective on June 20, 1991.
The loan was closed on schedule on September 30, 1996, with an informal extension through
January 31, 1997 to allow for payment of eligible expenditures incurred on or before the closing
date. The final disbursement took place on January 28, 1997, at which time a balance of US$ 3.9
million was canceled. (There was a previous cancellation of US$0.2 million in November 1995). No
cofinancing for the project was provided.
The ICR was prepared by Eduard Bos, Population Specialist in HDDHE and Fadia Saadah,
Population and Health Specialist, EA3PH. The report was reviewed by Samuel Lieberman, Chief,
Human Resources Operations Division, EA3PH, and Oscar de Bruyn Kops, Acting Project Advisor,
EA3DR.
Preparation of this ICR was based on a mission carried out during November 1996, on
materials in the project file, and on data and reports provided by the implementing agencies. The
Borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing an evaluation of the project and by commenting on the
draft ICR.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Family Planning and Safe Motherhood)
LOAN 3298-IND
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    By the late 1980s, Indonesia was well advanced in its fertility transition with the total
fertility rate (TFR) having fallen from 5.6 to 2.9 (Demographic and Health Survey; 1994) in the
previous two decades. This fertility decline was due in no small measure to the activities of the
country's family planning program which the Bank had supported through four earlier loans. Under
the leadership of the Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN), family planning became
sanctioned and accepted normatively, widely practiced, and institutionalized, the hallmarks of an
advanced program. Accordingly, a key aspect of the context when this operation was designed was
the need to refocus the agenda of an agency -- BKKBN -- (which became a ministry with a wider
mandate early in project implementation) and to pursue goals and initiatives in keeping with the
requirements of a maturing program.
ii.    A second important feature of the context when the project was designed was Indonesia's
more limited achievements as regards morbidity and mortality due to reproductive causes. The
project was prepared when the government's initial policies as regards safe motherhood were being
formulated and comprised a first step towards improving reproductive health services. These
initiatives preceded by several years the 1994 International Conference on Population and
Development in Cairo. However, the Cairo meeting and its aftermath encouraged Indonesian policy
makers to press ahead with reproductive health interventions, a decision which became part of the
background for this project.
Project Objectives
iii.   Of the project's two broad objectives, the first was to assist BKKBN in carrying out its tasks
and responsibilities in a setting defined by a maturing family planning movement. These included
improving access to contraceptive services for remaining difficult-to-reach groups, improving the
clinical quality of services, and responding through alternative approaches to service delivery and
communications campaigns to the diversity of clients' needs and to the growing number of
contraceptive delivery channels. The second objective was to help the Government of Indonesia
(GOI) expand access to maternal health services by training and deploying village midwives. This
was a crucial part of the government's overall approach to making motherhood safer.



iii
iv. Corresponding to these objectives, the project had the following components:
PartA (BKKBN)
*  Targetedfamily planning and safe motherhoodpromotion activities intended to improve
service accessibility and utilization among the urban poor and populations in coastal and
transmigration areas; promote family planning services in the organized sector; improve
quality of family planning services; and to publicize safe motherhood interventions.
* Information, education and communication (IEC) and community outreach designed to
support improvements in BKKBN's IEC strategy and system capacity, promote
participation of youth in family planning and develop community institutions in specific
areas.
+ Institutional development that provided for staff development training activities, reform
of BKKBN's management information system (MIS), evaluation and research capacity
and strengthening of the field operations through the provision of vehicles, equipment,
contraceptives and other materials.
Part B (Ministry of Health)
* Strengthening ofpolicyframework on the objectives and related training and planning
principles that would govern the deployment of village midwives (BDDs).
* Strengthening training capacity through training of trainers and improving teaching
materials and equipment.
* Training and improving the effectiveness of about 16,000 BDDs, including establishing
accreditation standards for midwifery training schools and certifications procedures for
BDDs.
v.    The objectives were carefully formulated, drawing on the findings of a major sector study
completed in 1991. The project's family planning components responded to the needs of a maturing
family planning program, while the operation's support for midwife training and policy research was
in keeping with GOI's decision to improve maternal health. The Bank's involvement was consistent
with its country assistance strategy and its approach to human resource development in Indonesia.
Implementation Experience and Results
vi.   The loan was approved by the Board in May 1991, became effective on June 20, 1991, and
was closed on schedule on September 30, 1996. Total project costs were US $104.0 million, of
which US$ 4.1 million was canceled. The project achieved its objectives and all of the major
components in Part A and Part B were implemented in a satisfactory manner.



iv
vii.   The project recorded a number of achievements. Components dealing with targeted family
planning services were implemented and provided valuable insights on how to improve services in
these hard-to-reach areas. The importance of quality in family planning services was documented
through project-funded research. Quality improvements in contraceptive services were brought
about through expanded method choice (via procurement of contraceptives), and by upgrading
through training the clinical and counseling skills of providers. The challenge of removal needs for
implants was addressed after project-supported research revealed the magnitude of the issue.
Capacity in IEC development and delivery was strengthened through equipment purchase and
audience research. Institutional development was accomplished by updating and streamlining the
MIS, in-country and overseas training for BKKBN staff, and operations research on various topics,
including those just cited.
viii. Part B attained the policy objectives concerned with clarifying the roles of midwives and
setting up an accreditation mechanism for midwife schools and a ministerial decree defining the role
of midwives was issued. Training capacity was enhanced through training of trainers and
procurement of teaching equipment and materials and about 16,000 village midwives were trained
and deployed.
ix.   In terms of broad outcomes, the project's design as a de facto program loan to support
BKKBN's entire effort militates against measuring project specific impacts on fertility and maternal
mortality and morbidity. However, it is reassuring that key fertility and mortality indicators moved
in the desired direction during implementation. The project also yielded interesting results on the
institutional front. This operation was one of the first for the Bank in Indonesia to concentrate on
support for software, i.e., training, studies, and so forth, and provided useful lessons in this regard
(see para. xiii below). The flexibility built into the project allowed for key activities to be revised
several times to reflect changing needs and priorities, e.g., expanding efforts related to improving
clinical skills of health providers and enhancing the quality of midwifery training. However, this
flexibility was not always used optimally. This was due partly to continuing rigidities in GOI's
planning and budgeting procedures, also because of the absence of clearly defined goals and targets
for some interventions, and because managers within BKKBN and MOH gave higher priority to
implementing long planned activities than to developing and pursuing alternative strategies.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
x.    The project achieved its objectives. Overall performance by both the Borrower and the Bank
were rated satisfactory. The Borrower's implementation performance was rated highly satisfactory.
xi.   The investment appears, on balance, to be sustainable. Key components and activities
relating to service and information provision and quality improvements have been absorbed into
BKKBN's ongoing program. As for Part B activities (MOH), follow up activities and projects have
been designed to address factors bearing on the professional and economic viability of village
midwives.



v
xii.   Key lessons learned:
Substantive issues
*  Local specificity of family planning interventions -- Addressing needs of specific population
groups as well as increasing the effectiveness of existing programs requires plans that better
reflect local needs and conditions. This was clearly illustrated in the component dealing with
targeted family planning.
* Quality of family planning and maternal health services. Although the initial project design
included interventions to improve quality of family planning and maternal health services,
the mid-term review of the project as well as other sector studies indicated that the
unfinished agenda was significant. In addition, improving quality of services is essential for
addressing the unfinished agenda in family planning and maternal health services. In
response, project resources were reprogrammed to place more emphasis on improving
quality of services. Additional programs for improving quality of care have been launched
in follow-up initiatives.
* Effectiveness and sustainability of BDDs. As efforts to train and deploy BDDs were
underway, it became apparent that the completion of the BDD program (as initially
designed) will not be adequate to address maternal health needs. The BDDs were not
adequately trained and many had difficulties in gaining credibility as health providers and
integrating into the village community. Moreover, it was not clear if these BDDs would be
sustained in the villages after the completion of their three (or six) year contracts. GOI needs
to address this important policy issue in the near future.
* Linkages between supply- and demand- side interventions. The project financed pilots to
address demand and supply side interventions related to safe motherhood. These pilots were
effective in demonstrating the need for intensifying such efforts and for enhancing the
coordination of demand and supply side activities -- a lesson that has been incorporated in
follow-up operations.
Implementation/process issues
*  Investment projects as tools for addressing policy reforms. Projects can be useful in
addressing some policy issues if (a) they have very clearly defined objectives and linkages to
the program; (b) there is strong ownership by the government; and (c) they are very closely
supervised. This was illustrated in the component dealing with midwifery policy issues.
* Annual Planning and flexibility in project design. The project adopted an annual planning
process that allowed for flexibility in project implementation and strengthened the ability of
the project to respond to sector issues that emerged during execution. However, the lack of
flexibility in some government procedures (especially the DIP process) and the lack of well
identified monitoring indicators limited the optimal use of this feature. Although the lack of
felxibility in the planning and budgeting process is a systemic issue that affects most sectors
in Indonesia, future operations and discussions with GOI should continue to address this
constraint.



vi
*  Performance-based-contracts for research. The completion and/or quality of some studies
did not always meet the expected standards. Future projects may wish to consider
performance-based contracts that ensure the quality and timeliness of the delivery of the
studies.
*  Ownership/leadership. The project enjoyed the support of strong leadership at BKKBN and
high degree of ownership among its implementing agencies. These were key elements in its
success and timely completion.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Family Planning and Safe Motherhood)
LOAN 3298-IND
Part I: PROJECT EVALUATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The project's objectives were to support the strategies of the Government of Indonesia (GOI)
in family planning and maternal health. Project activities were intended to increase access to family
planning methods, to improve the quality of family planning services, and to improve maternal
health through expanded community health services. The Bank's involvement was consistent with its
strategy for assistance in human resource development in Indonesia, which emphasized a focus on
less developed areas and on the poor.
2.    Project objectives were developed in a context of successful realization of GOI's long-
standing family planning goals. Thus project design focused on the need to refocus the agenda of an
agency and to pursue goals and initiatives driven by the requirements of a maturing program. A
second important feature of the context when this operation was designed was Indonesia's more
limited achievements as regards morbidity and mortality due to reproductive causes. Moreover, the
project was prepared when the government's initial policies as regards safe motherhood were being
formulated and comprised the first step towards improving reproductive health services.
3.    The specific objectives of the project were first to assist BKKBN in carrying out its tasks and
responsibilities in a setting defined by a maturing family planning movement. These included
improving access to contraceptive services for remaining difficult to reach groups, upgrading the
clinical quality of services, and responding through alternative approaches to service delivery and
communications campaigns to the diversity of clients' needs and to the growing number of
contraceptive delivery channels. The second objective was to help GOI expand access to maternal
health services and training and deploying village midwives. This was a crucial part of the
government's overall approach to making motherhood safer.
4.    Corresponding to these objectives, the project had the following components:
Part A (BKKBN)
* Targetedfamily planning and safe motherhood promotion activities intended to improve
service accessibility and utilization among the urban poor and populations in coastal and
transmigration areas; promote family planning services in the organized sector; improve
quality of family planning services; and to publicize safe motherhood interventions.



2
* Information, education and communication (IEC) and community outreach designed to
support improvements in BKKBN's IEC strategy and system capacity, promote
participation of youth in family planning and development of community institutions in
specific areas.
* Institutional development that provided for staff development, reform of BKKBN's
management information system (MIS), evaluation and research capacity and
strengthening of the field operations through the provision of vehicles, equipment,
contraceptives and other materials.
Part B (MOH)
+ Strengthening ofpolicy framework on the objectives and related training and planning
principles that would govern the deployment of village midwives (BDDs).
* Strengthening training capacity through training of trainers and improving teaching
materials and equipment.
* Training and improving the effectiveness of about 16,000 BDDs, including establishing
accreditation standards for midwifery training schools and certifications procedures for
BDDs.
5.    The objectives were carefully formulated, drawing on the findings of a major sector study
completed in 1991. The project's family planning components responded to the needs of a maturing
family planning program, while the operation's support for midwife training and policy research was
in keeping with GOI's decision to improve maternal health. The Bank's involvement was consistent
with its country assistance strategy and its approach to human resource development in Indonesia.
B. Achievement of Objectives
6.    The project substantially achieved its major objectives for both Parts A and B. An
assessment of the contribution of the project towards the objectives is provided below for each
component.
Part A: Family Planning Program (BKKBN)
7.    Expansion of family planning services in hard-to-reach areas: This component included:
targeted services to the coastal areas, transmigration areas, the organized sector, and the urban poor.
The exact impact of these services cannot be measured for the specific areas. However, the results
of the Demographic and Health Survey' results indicate that, overall, the achievements of the family
planning program are consistent with the project objectives. For instance, the contraceptive
Indonesia Demographic and Health Survey - 1994. Central Bureau of Statistics; State Ministry of
Population/National Fanily Planning Coordinating Board; Ministry of Health; and Demographic and Health
Institute- Macro International Inc. October, 1995.



3
prevalence for modern methods increased from about 47 percent in 1991 to about 52 percent in
1994; unmet need for family planning services dropped from 12.7 percent in 1991 to 10.6 percent in
1994 among married women and from 13.9 percent in 1991 to 11.7 percent in 1994 among married
women with no education.
8.    Implementation of planned activities for the coastal and transmigration areas was completed.
As these activities occurred in small areas in districts scattered across Indonesia, an accurate
estimate of the increase in contraceptive use is unknown. However, these relatively small scale
efforts provided important lessons for improving the effectiveness of family planning services that
benefited the general programs dealing with these issues. For instance, the project demonstrated that
the effectiveness of the interventions is greater if local conditions and needs were better reflected in
the project annual plans -- a finding that guided the project implementation after its mid-term
review.
9.    The third component dealing with targeted service delivery focused on family planning
services for the organized sector. The implementation targets for this component exceed the
appraisal estimates. The project supported provision of family planning services and IEC to
employees of more than 7,000 businesses. This model has worked better in larger firms with
existing company clinics. Moreover, as the activities of this component were completed, a health
insurance scheme for organized sector workers expanded its coverage to include family planning,
ensuring sustainability of this approach.
10.   The achievements of the pilots for delivery of family planning services to poor urban areas
were more limited. Delays in implementation resulted from the difficulties encountered in defining
the urban poor communities. While implementation of this components was achieved, the
effectiveness of the activities could have been enhanced if (a) contractual arrangements with NGOs
to deliver services for the urban poor were conducted in a more competitive manner and were
completed more efficiently; and (b) more clearly defined outputs and indicators were defined at
appraisal.
11.   Safe motherhood promotion. Activities to publicize safe motherhood interventions were
carried out by BKKBN. The original plan was that such demand-side interventions will support and
supplement the activities supported under Part B of the project -- i.e., supply-side interventions.
However, the demand- and supply-side interventions were not fully coordinated.
12.   Improving the quality of family planning services. The project made important contributions
towards improving the quality of family planning services through improving the method mix by
procurement of long-term contraceptive methods, training providers in service delivery, and
improving counseling skills of providers. These activities were completed and about 15,000 doctors,
midwives, and family planning field workers were trained in clinical skills and counseling
13.   After the start of the project, it became clear that not enough providers were available for
skilled removal of implants, which had become a popular contraceptive method in Indonesia, after
the end of its effective period. Furthermore, recording and tracking of acceptors of implants was



4
inadequate. These issues were exacerbated by the rapid expansion in implant use during the first
two years of the project. Several initiatives were undertaken to address these issues. Studies
financed by the project were carried out on the magnitude of the implant use, resulting in projections
of the expected number of removals needed in the future. Training materials were produced and
training of doctors and midwives in removal of implants was carried out. The addition of midwives
trained in removal of implants may be expected to alleviate the backlog of women who did not have
the removal done after five years (estimated at 10 percent of the 1990 cohort of acceptors). Future
efforts need to continue efforts to improve tracking of implant acceptors and developing the implant
strategy.
14.   The importance of quality for a successful family planning program cannot be overstated.
Research conducted as part of the project indicated that health concerns and side effects were the
main reasons for discontinuation of a method or for not using one at all. Counseling and follow-up
could in many cases address such concerns by directing couples to the most appropriate
contraceptive method. One of the Norplant studies supported by the project found that women who
had access to removal on demand were more likely to continue practicing family planning than those
who did not. And while proximity to a service provider was the most important reason for choosing
a source of contraceptive supplies, the competence of staff and the quality of the facility were also
found to be important reasons. The documentation of the importance of quality and the project's
efforts to improve quality must be seen as among the most important contributions of the project.
15.   Improving LEC and youth outreach. Dissemination of information is an appropriate area for a
mature program to be active in, and the subcomponent on youth outreach were particularly relevant.
This component was designed to pilot and develop new approaches, strengthen IEC message design
capabilities, and carry out audience research. The equipment was procured as planned and most
activities were undertaken. However, the province specific audience research and market
segmentation were only completed in the second half of the project. Thus, the expected changes in
the content of the IEC messages did not materialize during implementation. Nevertheless, the
investments made in this project are likely to be useful for future program development, especially
as the country implements its decentralized strategy.
16.   Institutional development. The training subcomponent was designed to strengthen skills at all
levels of the family planning program to meet the needs of a mature program and to allow the
program to change strategically. Staff development was seen as an important organizational tool
when technological changes and external developments imposed new requirements. In-country
training and refresher courses appeared to have been particularly successful for upgrading skills of
BKKBN staff. The project supported about 132 Master degree and 11 Ph.D. students overseas. In
addition, 3290 candidates received D3 degrees, 406 received masters degrees and 124 candidates
received post-graduate degrees in country. Moreover, a large number of staff received in-service
technical training in family planning related fields. Although several of these training activities were
completed and the educational level of the staff was upgraded, BKKBN did not develop a clear
manpower strategy to guide the staff development program. As a result, BKKBN did not train
adequate numbers of staff in areas like reproductive and maternal health or adolescent reproductive



5
issues. Moreover, the mangers of the staff development program were generally more concerned
with completion of the implementation as opposed to the effectiveness of the program.
17.   Program monitoring and research. The research subcomponent was intended to build up
research capacity in BKKBN, while simultaneously providing useful information for program
implementation. A total of 44 research activities was carried out under Part A, most of which were
directly linked to program issues. The 1994 DHS funded by the project has become a valuable
reference for health and mortality information for many other purposes, especially service delivery
related issues. Studies carried out on implants also provided useful information for program
delivery, leading to additional efforts to improve program quality2. Although research topics and
terms of reference were generally good, the final quality and/or the completion of the relatively
small scale studies and operational research did not meet expected standards.
18.   The process for developing and seeking approval for a large number of research proposals
proved to be burdensome for the Borrower, and the process of reviewing the proposals was time-
consuming for the Bank. As a result, obtaining the required approvals from the Bank for each
proposal often resulted in delays in conducting the research. This was at times due to the
inappropriateness or other deficiencies of the proposed studies, at other times this was due to
administrative delays. Providing technical assistance at the design and/or report writing stages of
research projects as well as performance-based-contracts for such projects could be useful tools that
may be adopted by future projects to enhance the quality of Bank funded research.
19.   The revision in the MIS to improve monitoring was successfully implemented through
simplified reporting requirements and upgraded computer hardware. As a result, the number of data
items in the recording and reporting system decreased from 367 to 240. Future challenges for the
MIS system involve the growing role of the private sector in service delivery and identifying needed
information from the private sector for program planning purposes.
Part B: Midwives Development (MOH)
20.   Strengthening the Policy Framework. One of the most important successes of Part B was the
institutionalization of Ministerial Decree 572 that defines the role of the midwife, thereby
legitimizing her role as a (private) health provider. The Decree also requires that the licenses for
midwives be renewed every five years -- a measure that can be used to ensure quality control of
midwifery practice. A working group has been established to operationalize the Decree and address
issues related to its implementation. However, the establishment and implementation of midwifery
standards are still in the early stages of development with assistance from WHO. Moreover, the
establishment of a Midwifery Board, another objective of this subcomponent, did not materialize
2 This study represents an important contribution to the literature in its approach and methodology. It
utilizes data that is not available in most other countries and provides important insights to the
introduction and implementation of Norplant contraceptives.



6
despite several efforts and activities to create such an entity. It is likely that future projects dealing
with health professionals will deal with the issue of Boards for health professionals including
midwives.
21.   The project also provided support for study tours related to midwifery training and
deployment and a series of evaluation studies of the different midwifery training programs. These
evaluative efforts provided useful information for guiding the next steps needed for improving the
quality of midwifery services. Many of the recommendations put forward by these evaluation
studies have already resulted in important follow-up action by MOH including a revised in-service
training strategy for village midwives.
22.   Strengthening the training capacity. The project was successful in developing an
accreditation system for midwifery schools. By the time the project closed, this was under
implementation, with 10 percent of the schools already receiving an accreditation rating. However,
the implementation of the accreditation system remains a reactive process that is dependent upon
individual initiative from the schools to complete the self-assessment. Accreditation needs to be
more proactive for it to be effective in standardizing quality.
23.   As part of the support for strengthening the training capacity, the project funded curriculum
revisions. Two sets of curriculum changes were introduced in 1991 and 1994. The major difference
was omitting the two-year work experience requirement before acceptance into the midwifery
program. Although the 1994 curriculum is more systematic and process oriented than the 1991
program, further revisions may be needed in the future to further enhance the quality of midwifery
training.
24.   Another constraint affecting training quality and capacity related to the quality of trainers
and teaching materials. The project responded by supporting several training programs to enhance
the capacity of teachers, especially following the decree that accelerated the training and deployment
of community midwives and created an immediate need to train more teachers. Forty two midwifery
teachers were sent overseas for a course in education techniques and advanced midwifery, and
another 20 teachers were sent for short-courses in problem-based learning in midwifery education.
In-country training was also provided for midwifery teachers and clinical instructors. Although
these efforts were critical to strengthening the quality of the clinical training, they could not
compensate for the low exposure of the midwifery students to clinical cases -- a consequence of
GOI's acceleration of the training of village midwives.
25.   Training and improving effectiveness of community midwives. The planned target of
training about 16,000 community midwives was achieved. In addition, the project supported efforts
to develop in-service training on life savings skills (LSS) to improve the skills of village midwives.
Assessment of the LSS training pointed to the need to develop an in-service training strategy for
these midwives -- an effort that has already started as part of the preparation of the upcoming Safe
Motherhood Project.



7
26.   As for the deployment of community midwives, a position for a Midwife Coordinator,
located at the district and sub-district level, was created to assist with management of the community
midwives after deployment. However, the role and effectiveness of these Coordinators still would
require future evaluation, especially since many community midwives still receive little supervision
and support.
27.   In addition, the project supported the establishment of a Midwife Baseline Data registration
that allows for tracking midwives after their deployment. Minimal information is recorded such as:
name, age, date graduated, and employment location. Computers were sent to 26 provinces but
apparently the system is currently underutilized.
28.   Project management. At BKKBN, a Project Secretariat was established during the first year
of the project, and the Deputy for Program Planning and Analysis was the Project Director. During
year 3 of the project, the Secretariat was dismantled, and project activities were institutionalized
within the BKKBN organizational structure and handled by a small team. One consequence was that
project financial reports were sometimes incomplete or late. In addition, and given that not all of
BKKBN's Bureaus were familiar with the Bank's procedures, procurement of certain activities took
longer than needed.
29.   As for Part B, after initial delays in the first 18 months of implementation, project
management improved significantly. This was party due to the change in the Project Secretariat.
Project activities progressed smoothly thereafter due to diligent management efforts. The Secretariat
efficiently executed project activities through their consistent follow-up.
30.   A steering committee was established to carry out joint assessments and policy review, and
to coordinate the work of the separate project secretariats that had responsibilities for implementing
Part A and Part B. However, Part A and Part B were essentially implemented as two parallel
projects.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors generally outside Government control
31.   One of the key external factors that positively affected the project was the 1994 International
Conference on Population and Development. This Conference and its agenda for follow-up action
represented a strategic shift in the prevailing approach as regards family planning and reproductive
health issues. The Conference called for more emphasis on reproductive health concerns and
stressed the importance of the quality of family planning services. Indonesia, which was an
important participant and supporter of the Conference, embraced its recommendations -- a decision
that supported the project and its objectives.



8
Factors generally subject to Government control
32.   A number of factors affected the project's implementation and ability to achieve its
objectives. These include:
*  Expansion of BKKBN's mandate. During the third year of project implementation, BKKBN's
mandate was expanded to include family welfare in addition to family planning. Although the
family welfare activities are complementary to those of family planning, adjustment to the new
organizational structure was time consuming and affected the implementation of various project
activities at the time. However, when some of these issues were identified at the mid-term
review, BKKBN's management took corrective steps and gave more attention to the project. It
is not possible to assess the impact of the reorganization on service delivery and/or field
activities.
*  Acceleration of the village midwife program. A Presidential decree issued in January 1993
accelerated the training and deployment of midwives, with the placement of a midwife in every
village to be achieved by 1996. This led to the need for expedited training to meet the numerical
targets, which offset efforts to improve the practical training offered to midwives.
*  Political support for safe motherhood. The last five years have witnessed increased political
commitment and support for safe motherhood initiatives. This support enhanced the project's
ability to achieve its objectives and strengthened the already strong ownership of Government to
the project and its objectives.
Factors generally subject to implementation agency control
33.   Among the key factors that affected the project and that were under the control of the
implementing agency were:
* Coordination between the two parts of the project. The two agencies could have collaborated
more -- this would have benefited both components.
* Project management. In general, the project's managers performed well and as a result many of
the project findings were institutionalized or followed-up. When the performance of Part B was
unsatisfactory in the first 18 months of the project, GOI took action and appointed a new team at
the project secretariat, resulting in significant improvements in implementation. In Part A,
BKKBN provided strong support and leadership for the project. The Minister himself chaired
most of the wrap-up meetings and followed-up on project performance and activities. However,
the dismantling of the secretariat for Part A in the last 2 years of the project resulted in few
delays that could have been avoided.
D. Project Sustainability
34.   Overall, The investment appears, on balance, to be sustainable. Key components and
activities relating to service and information provision and quality improvements have been
absorbed into BKKBN's ongoing program. Follow-up projects have been designed and will be used



9
to carry forward GOI's strong commitment to safe motherhood, specifically by addressing the
factors bearing on the professional and economic viability of village midwives.
35.   Part A. Many of the interventions in Part A of the project are already institutionalized or
have been added to regular program activities. For instance, services for coastal areas are now part
of the regular program activities and will continue beyond the life of the project. Efforts to improve
quality of services have led to the establishment of quality assurance groups for family planning
services at the district and province levels -- an activity that will also be supported in the follow-up
investment to this project. On the other hand, efforts to revise the MIS are already in place. The
results of the research studies have been incorporated into program activities and other investment
plans. In addition, the project's investments in changing norms and behaviors will enhance the
sustainability of its results and efforts to improve quality of services will increase the long term
sustainability of the program.
36.   Part B. Sustainability of Part B's achievements is likely, but will face important challenges
in the next few years. Contracts of private community midwives expire after three years, with the
first batch expected to "graduate" during 1997. Midwives who have completed their contracts may
be attracted to private sector hospitals or private practices in cities. If these midwives are the
linchpin of the safe motherhood strategy, then efforts to improve their effectiveness and
sustainability are needed. In response to this urgent need, a number of policy options have been
developed with GOI and will be implemented in the follow-up safe motherhood project.
E. Bank Performance
37.   Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. During project preparation and appraisal,
appropriate skills mix during missions had a positive influence on the preparation of individual
components for Part A. In terms of technical assessments, the project was well prepared. However,
the monitoring of project impact should have received more attention.
38.    Supervision occurred biannually during each of the project years, and was generally found to
be useful by the Borrower. Missions were generally staffed with population/health specialists and
supported with operational staff from the resident mission. The review missions drew upon other
expertise as needed for project implementation. In addition, staff involved in project preparation
were also involved in its supervision and there were only two changes in the task management of the
project -- features that provided the project with the continuity needed for good implementation. On
the other hand, the suggestion made in the SAR for the placement of a long term expert in family
planning administration in the Bank's office in Jakarta did not materialize. This resulted in a higher
supervision load for Bank staff than was anticipated at appraisal, especially for activities like
research that require significant resources (in terms of time and skills) to review.



10
F. Borrower Performance
39.   Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory. Government commitment to the project
objectives and achievements was very high. Project components, especially Part A, were well
prepared and both Parts of the project were well supported. Covenant compliance was satisfactory
(Table 8). Implementation was especially satisfactory with effective project staff and leadership.
There was good team work between the Government and Bank teams.
G. Assessment of Outcome
40.   The project's net present value (NPV) cannot be calculated accurately because many of the
project outcomes cannot be measured quantitatively and it is difficult to assess some outcomes in
monetary terms. Moreover, the project's design, as a program support loan, does not allow for the
separation of influence of the project interventions, other program interventions, and other
determinants of fertility and health status.
41.   The project's interventions and its immediate outcomes have been achieved. However, the
medium-term impact of project activities cannot be measured at this time. For instance, the impact
of increased contraceptive use on fertility, the impact of IEC messages on adolescent behavior, or
the effects of training on institutional development are all likely to have a medium- to long-term
effects that are beyond the scope of this evaluation. It is, however, reassuring to note that sector
wide indicators moved in the desired direction during implementation -- e.g., the decline in TFR
(from 3.02 in 1991 to 2.85 in 1994) the increase in contraceptive prevalence rate (from 47.1% in
1991 to 52.2% in 1994), the decrease in unmet need (from 12.7% in 1991 to 10.6% in 1994) and so
forth.
42.   The assessment of the effectiveness of the midwifery training program and its policy is more
challenging. The effectiveness of this new cadre of health providers has not been demonstrated yet.
This issue will be tackled in the upcoming Safe Motherhood Project. Experience from other
countries that implemented similar "village midwife" programs (e.g., Malaysia, Philippines) points
to mixed findings. It is likely that this approach has its merits and can greatly increase access to
services at the village level. However, efforts to improve technical competence of the midwives and
sustainability need to be carefully examined in the near future.
H. Future Operations
43.   Most activities carried out under the project continue to be supported by GOI. Many of the
interventions have been integrated into ongoing programs. In addition, GOI has followed-up on
project findings and evaluations through a series of efforts that include the upcoming Safe
Motherhood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach. This project responds to the lessons
learned from the Population V Project, especially those related to sustainability and effectiveness of



11
village midwives; quality of maternal and reproductive health services (including family planning);
and the linkages between supply and demand- side interventions. In addition, lessons learned from
the Population V Project were incorporated in ongoing projects like the Third Community Health
and Nutrition Project (Loan 3550-IND).
I. Key Lessons Learned
44.   The key lessons learned from the project have been grouped into two categories: those
dealing with substantive issues and others dealing with implementation/process.
Substantive issues
* Local specificity of family planning interventions -- Addressing needs of specific population
groups as well as increasing the effectiveness of existing programs requires plans that better
reflect local needs and conditions. This was clearly illustrated in the component dealing with
targeted family planning.
* Quality of family planning and maternal health services. Although the initial project design
included interventions to improve quality of family planning and maternal health services,
the mid-term review of the project as well as other sector studies indicated that the
unfinished agenda was significant. In addition, improving quality of services is essential for
addressing the unfinished agenda in family planning and maternal health services. In
response, project resources were reprogrammed to place more emphasis on improving
quality of services. Additional programs for improving quality of care have been launched
in follow-up initiatives.
*  Effectiveness and sustainability of BDDs. As efforts to train and deploy BDDs were
underway, it became apparent that the completion of the BDD program (as initially
designed) will not be adequate to address maternal health needs. The BDDs were not
adequately trained and many had difficulties in gaining credibility as health providers and
integrating into the village community. Moreover, it was not clear if these BDDs would be
sustained in the villages after the completion of their three (or six) year contracts. GOI needs
to address this important policy issue in the near future.
*  Linkages between supply- and demand- side interventions. The project financed pilots to
address demand and supply side interventions related to safe motherhood. These pilots were
effective in demonstrating the need for intensifying such efforts and for enhancing the
coordination of demand and supply side activities -- a lesson that has been incorporated in
follow-up operations.
Implementation/process issues
* Investment projects as tools for addressing policy reforms. Projects can be useful in
addressing some policy issues if (a) they have very clearly defined objectives and linkages to



12
the program; (b) there is strong ownership by the government; and (c) they are very closely
supervised. This was illustrated in the component dealing with midwifery policy issues.
*  Annual Planning and flexibility in project design. The project adopted an annual planning
process that allowed for flexibility in project implementation and strengthened the ability of
the project to respond to sector issues that emerged during execution. However, the lack of
flexibility in some government procedures (especially the DIP process) and the lack of well
identified monitoring indicators limited the optimal use of this feature. Although the lack of
felxibility in the planning and budgeting process is a systemic issue that affects most sectors
in Indonesia, future operations and discussions with GOI should continue to address this
constraint.
*  Performance-based-contracts for research. The completion and/or quality of some studies
did not always meet the expected standards. Future projects may wish to consider
performance-based contracts that ensure the quality and timeliness of the delivery of the
studies.
* Ownership/leadership. The project enjoyed the support of strong leadership at BKKBN and
high degree of ownership among its implementing agencies. These were key elements in its
success and timely completion.



13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Family Planning and Safe Motherhood)
LOAN 3298-IND
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial        Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                         n                mxi
Sector Policies                                         E                 E n                g
Financial Objectives                   al                 lE                                lxi
Institutional Development             ix]              i                  2i                 [I
Physical Objectives                                                       El                 El
Poverty Reduction                      0                3                 2                  m
Gender Issues                        lx                 E                 El                 2I
Other Social Objectives                                El                 E                  El
Environmental Objectives              [                El                  ]                l
Public Sector Management                l              lx                 a                  E
Private Sector Development            E                 E                 El
Other (specify)                       U                                   E                 L 3
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability                 Likely                   Unlikely                    Uncertain
(i)                        (.1)                        (i)
[El                       1E                           El



14
Highly
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactory         Satisfactorv                Deficient
Identification                                              P7         
Preparation Assistance              E                        X 
Appraisal                                                    3
Supervision                                                                            C
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                       satisfactorv    Satisfactory     Deficient
(V')           (/)             (/)
Preparation
Implementation                               FM
Covenant Compliance                           a        
Operation (if applicable)                                    I               Eli
Highly                                            Highl
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory    Satisfactorv  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
El                                 lE



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                   Purpose                       Year of       Status
approval
1. Credit 300-IND   To assist GOI in establishing clinic-based family  1972       Closed
Population I        planning in six provinces in Java-Bali; improve
information and motivation
2. Loan 1472-IND     To expand family planning program to ten         1977        Closed
Population Il       additional provinces; to establish contraceptive
distribution centers in Java-Bali; strengthen
population education and motivation
3. Loan 1869-IND     To expand family planning program to remaining   1980        Closed
Population III       provinces; to assist GOI decentralize management
of family planning program; to strengthen planning
program; to strengthen maternal and child health
services
4. Loan 2529-IND    To expand family planning program in Outer        1985        Closed
Population IV       Islands; finance field operations, staff development,
IEC; assist Ministry of Population and
Environment to perform its policy and coordinating
role
5. Loan 3042-IND    Raise health status in East Kalimantan and Nusa   1989        Closed
Third Health        Tenggara Barat by improving delivery of health
services and strengthening sector management
6. Loan 3550-IND     To enhance programs for child survival, safe     1992       Ongoing
Third Community     motherhood and nutrition in five provinces; build
Health and Nutrition    provincial capacity to plan, monitor, and evaluate
services; strengthen central MOH to provide
technical support to provinces
7. Loan 3905-IND     To increase the capacity of provincial and district  1995   Ongoing
Health IV            health offices; improve access and utilization of
health services by the poor; improve efficiency in
service delivery of basic health services
8. Loan 3981 -IND   Lower STD and HIV incidence in two areas:         1996       Ongoing
STD/AIDS            Jakarta and Riau and to operationalize GOI's
national AIDS strategy
9. Loan 4125-IND    To lower the prevalence of iodine deficiency      1997       Ongoing
Intensified Iodine Def.  through: (a) monitoring of iodine status; (b)
Control Project     increasing consumption of Iodized salt; (c) targeted
distribution of iodine capsules; and (d) improved
coordination of activities among partners.



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned         Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification/Preparation                 n.a.              September 1989
Preappraisal                               n.a.              April 1990
Appraisal                                  August 1990       August 1990
Negotiations                               April 1991        April 1991
Board Presentation                         May 1991          May 1991
Signing                                   May 1991           May 1991
Effectiveness                              June 1991         June 1991
Midterm review                            July 1994          July 1994
Project Completion                         September 1996    September 1996
Loan Closing                               September 1996    September 1996
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY91      FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95   FY96   FY97
Appraisal estimate         6,500   12,500   26,500   51,000  80,100  97,800  104,000
Actual                     6,500   11,630   29,420   56,800  79,920  97,960   99,890
Actual as % of Estimate    100%      93%     113%    111%    100%   100%    96% a/
Date of final                                                            January 1997
disbursement
a/ USD $200 thousand was canceled in November 1995
Balance of US$ 3,909,615.21 was canceled in January 1997



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators               Appraisal Targets                    Actual
PART A
Targeted family planning
Workshops and orientation sessions at    Planned on annual basis                Completed
provincial and district levels
Operational research on target group                                            Completed
needs
Preparation of annual assessments of              NA                            Completed
delivery strategy
Provide FP services to coastal districts          127                              161
Provide FP services to transmigration             304                              393
UPTs
Provide FP services to the organized             2,250                            7,503
sector
Define altematives for providing       Identified at mid-term review            Completed
services to the urban poor
Contract NGOs to provide services to                                        Partially completed
the urban poor
Safe motherhood promotion
Training participants by level
*  district                                       NA                               181
*  subdistrict                                                                     363
.  villages                                                                        716
Training of trainers -district level              NA                              1,144
Training of new UPPKA                             NA                              3,416
Training of SM cadres                             NA                              5,126
Enhancement of contraceptive mix
Number of doctors, midwives, and field           15,579                           15,482
workers trained in long-term methods
Procurement and distribution of                   NA                            Completed
Norplant, IUD kits, and laparascopes
IEC strategy and youth component
TV media programs                                  53                              50
AVA                                                1                                I
Audio media: Master and copy                 13 master audios                13 master audios
& copies                        & copies
MIUs                                              187                              187
MPC                                                16                              15
Procurement of other equipment and                                            99% completed
IEC materials



18
Key Implementation Indicators            Appraisal Targets                     Actual
Completed
Audience research carried out
Youth involvement: Percentage of                                                88%
targeted villages reached
BKKBN staff development
Preparation of annual training plans                                         Completed
Evaluation of the training program  Requested at Mid-term review         Partially completed
Program monitoring and research
Review of research planning and                                              Completed
preparation of agreed
implementation schedule
Design and introduce modifications                                           Completed
of the FPMIS on the basis of an
assessment
Field operations
Maintenance of adequate supplies                                             Completed
and equipment throughout BKKBN
PART B
Develop policy framework
Establish Task Force on Family                                               Completed
Planning and Safe Motherhood
Revise curricula, certification, and                                         Completed
examination for community
midwives
Develop and employ agreed                                                    Completed
standards to select institutions for
training midwives
Establish Midwifery Board                                                    Not Done
Issue Decree regarding midwifery                                             Completed
practice
Strengthen training capacity
Adoption of training standards                                               Completed
Overseas training of trainers                  NA                               62
Study tour                                     NA                            Completed
Procurement of teaching equipment                                            Completed
and midwifery kits
Train and improve effectiveness of
community midwives
Number of midwives trained and                16,000                           16,085
deployed



19
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
STUDY                       PURPOSE                 STATUS           RESULTS/IMPACT
PART A
Development of Quality    To identify and develop indicators for  Completed  Provided monitoring indicators
Indicators for family    the quality of family planning                 suitable for inclusion in the MIS
planning (3 studies)      services
Survey of family Planning    To observe the implementation of  Completed  Identified which factors are
Services for Factory      family planning program in the                associated with successful
Workers                   organized sector                              organized sector family planning,
Results were used in the
monitoring and evaluation of the
component dealing with organized
sector
Provincial studies on Small  To institutionalize research on the  Completed  Studied the effectiveness of
Family Transition         small family transition                       integrated programs on family
welfare in 10 provinces
Norplant tracking study   To assess ability to track Norplant  Completed  Estimated the removal needs for
acceptors in need of removals                 Norplants in the early cohorts of
Norplant users.
Assessment of Norplant    Follow-up five cohorts of Norplant    Completed  Identified the needs for removals of
removal needs             acceptors to determine the needs of           Norplant contraceptives. Results
removals                                     are being utilized for the implant
strategy. This was the first study of
this magnitude to be carried out.
Postpartum Family         To increase the participation in post-   Completed  Comparison of contraceptive
Planning as Community     partum family planning                        prevalence showed increase
Based Services                                                          following community based post-
partum family planning activities
Assessment of the role of    To initially assess the role of the  Completed  Found potential for using midwifes
community midwives        community midwives and their                  for family planning promotion
acceptance at the community level           I
Assessment of the         To assess acceptance of sterilization    Completed  Found level of sterilization
acceptance of sterilization    as a family planning method              acceptance to be lower than other
long-term methods
Quality of Care of Non-   To obtain information on quality of    Completed  Provided characteristics of
scalpel Vasectomy in West  care and acceptance of non-scalpel           acceptors and information on the
Java, Central Java, and   vasectomy                                     efficacy of the method
South Sumatra
Removal of Implant by     To evaluate the ability of different  Completed  Identified the needs for training in
Doctors & Paramedics      provides to provide insertions and            implant removal
removals for Norplants
Development of Norplant    To develop Norplant IEC materials    Completed  Proposed and tested IEC materials
IEC Materials             for providers, field workers, & clients       for Norplant counseling



20
STUDY                       PURPOSE               STATUS            RESULTS/IMPACT
The Study of Performance of  To assess the role of midwives as   Completed  Provided information on No. of
Community Midwives         family planning providers                  acceptors served, supervision, &
relations with other providers
Needs for Norplant Implant   To assist BKKBN in developing    Completed  Provided information on Norplant
Removal                    strategy for removal services of           continuation and projected need for
Norplant                                   removals based on year of insertion
Program Analysis for       To analyze program related youth   Completed  Tabulations of age at marriage,
National Survey Data       indicators                                 contraceptive use, and birth intervals
for under-30 group. Provided useful
information for further development
of the youth program.
Operational research (OR)    To assess slum area needs for  Completed  Focus group analysis for slum area
on service delivery in the  family planning and IEC                   strategy development. Inputs were
slum areas                                                            needed for the evaluation and design
of services for the urban poor.
Operation research on FP   To develop the transmigration area  Completed  Focus group analysis for
service delivery in the    family planning program                    transmigration area strategy
transmigration areas                                                  development
OR on FP service delivery in  To assess user preferences for  Completed  Focus group analysis for new
new settlement areas       family planning provision                  settlement area strategy development
OR on FP service delivery in  To assess knowledge and attitude   Completed  Focus group analysis for coastal
the coastal areas          regarding BKKBN activities                 areas strategy development
through focus groups
Study on Audience          To analyze IEC-family planning    Completed  Identified most effective
Characteristics in Central  strategies                                communication channels for IEC
Java and South Sumatra                                                strategy
IDHS 1994                  To provide policy makers and    Completed  Provided province-level fertility,
program managers with                      mortality, and contraceptive
information on fertility, family           information. The survey also
planning, infant, child, and               included a module on services and
maternal mortality                         another on household expenditures.
Study of BKKBN Provincial  To explore the interaction between  Completed  Defined major organizational
and District levels on     the central unit and the field             challenges at provincial level. Results
Organization and Operation                                            can be used for future institutional
development of BKKBN.
Part B
Identification of Midwives    Prioritize village ranking   Completed  Identified variables concerning to
Placement in the Village   according to need for BDD                  geographic, environmental, SES,
health and nutrition, and health
status.



21
STUDY                       PURPOSE                STATUS            RESULTS/IMPACT
Time and Motion Study of    Examine BDD time utilization,  Completed  BDD have insufficient training in
BDD (Parts 1 and 2)        adaptation to community, and                communication skills; 8% of BDD
community acceptance                        did not stay in villages; BDD
capacity to provide other medical
services important factor in
community acceptance; BDD utility
is diminished in areas already serves
by other midwives
Costing Study of Safe      Develop costing models for MCH    Completed  the study provided detailed
Motherhood in East Java    activities at district level                information on the cost structure for
safe motherhood interventions. It
compared unit costs of different
interventions and thus provided
useful data for policy making and
economic analysis.
BDD Training Needs         Training needs assessment and   Completed  BDD have wide variety of skills; less
Assessment                 study of BDD competency;                    than 50% of BDD can provide the
deternine equipment needs                   services expected of them; 40% of
polindes are incompletely equipped.
Role of Birthing Homes in    Study polindes functions and  Completed  Polindes concept often not accepted
West Java                  sustainability                              by community; found expensive to
pay both TBA and BDD
Mother-Baby Package Field   To implement mother-baby       Completed  Ineffective training methods;
Trial in West Java and South  package                                  providers need on-going EOC
Sumatra                                                                training
Operation research on the  Reason for acceptance/refusal;  Completed  Accepted because of similarity to
feasibility of the Kangaroo    length of time use; changes in          local traditions; used up to 28 days;
Method in rural areas      temperature and weight                      normal weight achieved in 8 days
Management of the Sick     Feasibility study of applicability of  Completed  Main diseases were jaundice,
Neonate                    sick newborn guidelines for                 dermatitis, and intrapartum infection
doctors and BDD
Integrated Management of    Study feasibility of essential  On-going   Kangaroo method works well; good
the Newborn Outside the    neonatal care at primary level              reporting of neonatal conditions by
Hospital                                                               providers using modules



22
Table 7A: Project Costs
Item                    Appraisal Estimate (US$M)         Actual(US$M)
Local        Foreign       Total
Civil works                           4.6          1.6            6.2               6.8
Equipment, vehicles & IEC            12.2         44.0           56.2              58.3
materials
Contraceptives                                    10.3           10.3               9.1
Local training                       31.8          5.6           37.4              33.8
Overseas fellowships, technical       6.1         14.1           20.2              17.2
assistance and research
Project development and              15.4          2.7           18.1               8.8
deployment
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  70.1         78.3          148.4             134.0
Table 7b: Project Financing
Source               Appraisal Estimate (US$M     Actual/latest Estimate (US$M)
GOI    IBRD          Total    GOI       IBRD     Total
Civil works                       6.2          0.0  6.2           6.8      0.0       6.8
Equipment, vehicles,             18.6         34.6  53.5         14.1     44.2      58.3
instructional materials
Contraceptives                    0.0          9.8  9.8           0.0      9.1       9.1
Local training                   11.2         26.2  37.4         10.1     23.7      33.8
Overseas fellowships, technical   0.0         19.1  19.1          0.0     16.7       17.2
assistance, and research and
evaluation
Project development and           6.5         12.1  18.6          3.1      6.2       8.8
deployment                                                                               l
Unallocated                       1.9          2.2  4.1             -        -
TOTAL                            44.4        104.0  148.4        34.0     99.9     134.0



23
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section       Covenant   Original       Revised       Status   Description                 Comments
type (I)    fulfillment    fulfillment    (2)
date          date
Loan          Sch.1.3(A)    3                                       C      No withdrawals for category   Study was completed and
la until the first phase of FP    reviewed by Bank; MIS
information system is       procurement was authorized
completed
Loan          Sch 1 3(B)    3                                       C      No withdrawals for category    Recommendations were
3a until recommendations for  submitted to Bank; training
midwifery training are      activities were started
submitted
Loan          Sch 5 2       5          31 Jul 91                    C      Appoint project secretaries  Project secretariat has been
by 31 Jul 91 (BKKBN and     functional since project
MOH                         implementation
Loan          Sch 5.3       9                                       C      Submit annual project        Annual reports were
reports to Bank (BKKBN      submitted on a regular basis
and MOH)
Loan         Sch 5.4        9                                       C      Submit annual                Annual implementation
implementation plans to     were submitted on a regular
Bank (BKKBN and MOH)        basis
Loan          Sch.5 5        10        31 Jul 91                    CD      Appoint MIS consultants     MIS consultant was
(BKKBN)                     appointed after delay in
finalizing contract
Loan          Sch 5 6       10         15 Sep 91                    CD      Contract monitoring of      Four firms were selected for
overseas fellows            the management of overseas
fellows, after delays in
selection and contractual
arrangements
Loan          Sch 5 7       9          31 May 94                    C       Submit to Bank mid-term     Mid-term review
review of service           conducted and submitted,
components (BKKBN)          after slight delay
Loan          Sch 5 8(A)    10                                      C       Ensure that midwives trained   The agreement on the
through project work only in   provincial selection has
agreed provinces and that   been maintained
training emphasizes practical
teaching (MOH)
Loan          Sch 5.8(B)    5                                       C      Maintaining steering         Steering committee
committee for project       established. Coordination
coordination and have       efforts not very good
committee meet twice a year
Loan          Sch 5.9       10         31 Dec 92                    CD     Implement improved           Implemented following
licensing of midwives and   delay
school accreditation systems
(MOH)
(1) 3 = Flow and utilization of project funds, 5 = Management aspects; 9 = Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 = Implementation
(2) C = Complied with; CD = Compliance after delay



24
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                     Planned                        Actual
project cycle         Weeks           US$(000s)     Weeks          US$(000s)
Preparation to Appraisal       n.a.             n.a.         59.6             110.7
Appraisal                      n.a.             n.a.         53.3             110.2
Negotiations through Board      n.a             n.a.         11.0             20.5
Approval                                                                                l
Supervision                    n.a.             n.a.        225.0             317.6
Completion                     8.0              15.6          7.3             13.0
TOTAL                                                       356.2            572.0



25
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of        Month/    Number   Days in    Specialized           Performance rating          Types of Issues
project cycle    year      of         field      staff skills
persons               represented
Implementation   Development
status          objectives
Identification/   9/89     4          21 (2)     P,H,T               -
preparation
Pre-appraisal    4/90      6                     P,E,A,F,I
Appraisal       9/90        7                    P,H,E,A,F,I
Supervision 1    8/91      4          22         P,H,N               I
Supervision 2    5/92      3          20         P,O                 I                I
Supervision 3    11/92     4          16         P,O,N               I                I
Supervision 4    6/93      3                     P,O                 I
Supervision 5    11/93     5          21         P,H,O               1               2          Components related to service
delivery to the hard to reach not all
successful
Supervision 6    7/94      2          18         P,H                HS               S          Same as above
Supervision 7    2/95       1         5          H,O                HS               S          Same as above
Supervision 8    11/95     3          18         H,P,O              HS               S          Same as above
Supervision 9    6/96      2          12         H,O                HS               S          Same as above
Supervision 10   8/96      2                     H,O                HS               S          Same as above
|Completion     11/96       3          19        P,O,N        |
(1) H=Health; P-Population; T=Training, E=Economics, A=Architecture; F=Family Planning; I=IEC; N=Nursing/midwifery, O=Operations
(2) Includes other projects



26
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH POPULATION PROJECT
(Family Planning and Safe Motherhood)
LOAN 3298-IND
PART IH:
BORROWER'S EVALUATION OF THE FIFTH POPULATION PROJECT
PART A
Project Objectives and Strategy
The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has given a priority to the population policy in the national
development. The objectives are to reduce fertility and mortality, to increase life expectancy, and to
reduce imbalance in the population's distribution. The key component to achieve this is through family
planning program and related health nutrition program. In line of this priority, the National Family
Planning Coordination Board (BKKBN) implemented the Fifth Population Project (Family Planning and
Safe Motherhood) during 1991-1996. The overall objectives of the project are to help the government
intensify its efforts to lower fertility and maternal mortality during the 1990's by strengthening the
national family planning and maternal health programs. The project consisted of two major parts. Part A:
Targeted Family Planning and Safe Motherhood Promotion (BKKBN) and Part B: Midwives
Development (MOH).
BKKBN was responsible for the Part A which consisted of several project components
including: Family planning services and safe motherhood promotion, IEC strategy and establishment for
community groups, Institutional development, and project management. The targeted family planning
services included at the coastal areas, transmigration areas, poor urban areas, organized sector, safe
motherhood promotion, and enhancement of method mix. The IEC strategy and establishment of
community groups consisted of IEC strategy, youth participation, and community groups. The
institutional development consisted of staff development, monitoring and research, and field operation.
The project management included project implementation, monitoring, evaluation and administration.
The family planning services at the coastal areas served a total of 125 districts in 21 provinces;
the urban poor areas served a total of 11 municipalities in 7 provinces; the transmigration areas served
more than 740 UPTs in 13 provinces; the organized sector covered 2,250 companies in 14 provinces; the
safe motherhood promotion served 181 districts in 14 provinces; and the enhancement method mix
covered all provinces. The very large coverage, broad scope, and varies target groups, and centrally
management made the project implementation very difficult. A similar design of the project component
included an assessment of need and demand of family planning at each targeted areas, development a
strategy and operational plan through workshops and meetings, and provision of limed family planning
services. However, this planning effort did not provide a specific family planning and health services.
Lack of local community participation including at the district, subdistrict, and village levels made the
project did not provide a specific of local services. More effective and efficient project implementation is
required to address the existing problem mainly to continue declining TFR, increasing CPR mainly LTM



27
users and declining MMR. Centrally planned and supervised vertical grams were less effective. The
effectiveness and efficiency of the project could only be increased by decentralizing management of
family planning and health program.
Key Achievements of the Project
During the 1990-1996, the Government of Indonesia has successfully declined TFR, increased
CPR, increased new acceptors, current users, long term contraceptive method users. and current users
who received from private sectors. The average of TFR declined from 3.3 children per woman in 1990 to
2.7 children per woman in 1996; the CPR increased from 49.7% in 1991 to 66.6% in 1996. The new
acceptors increased from 4,284,336 in 1990 to 5,544,226 in 1996. The current users increased from
18,525,304 in 1990 to 24,203,265 in 1996. The long term contraceptives method users slightly increased
from 6,583,570 in 1990 to 8,804,849 in 1966. The current users receiving family planning services from
private sectors increased from 11.7% in 1990 to 27.9% in 1996.
The National Family Planning Program was financed by various sources of inputs including
79.6% GOI budget, 11.3% IBRD, 1.6% USAID, 4.5% Pathfinder, and 2.5% UNFPA, ADB 0.5%, and
UNICEF 0.004%. GOI contributed the largest part of budget inputs to the national family planning
program. Since the Bank has the largest donor contribution, it may be concluded that the project has
substantially contributed in declining TFR and increasing various demographic indicators including CPR
and new acceptors. .The performance of each project component was good since most of the outputs
indicators, 88-100% were achieved, even several sub-project components reached more than 100%. In
addition, the results of each project component is described as follows
At the coastal areas, the project was to improve accessibility of family planning services to 2,000
villages in 125 districts. At the end of the project, a total of 3,608 villages in 935 sub-districts of 161
districts in 21 provinces were improved. BKKBN had achieved more than 100% of districts targeted by
the project
At the transmigration areas, the project was to institutionalize family planning services for the
transmigration communities at the UPTs. A total of 740 UPTs covering 1.8 million people in 13
provinces were targeted by the project. At the end of the project more than 800 UPTs at the
transmigration areas received family planning services. Of these, more than 50% UPTs were transferred
to the local government responsibility and receiving family planning and health services from the
existing facilities such as local health center and sub-health centers. As of March 31, 1996 the project
served a total of 393 UPTs in 13 provinces covering 127,760 families, 74,920 Elcos, and 52,778 active
users.
At the urban areas, the project was to help BKKBN improving family planning services for poor
urban communities at 11 municipalities in 7 provinces. During the project period, a total of 330 persons
were trained as trainers, 181 persons trained in family planning services and 3,300 community leaders
attended orientation meetings. BKKBN sought co-operation from NGOs and local authorities to extend
outreach services.
The organized sector subcomponent was to increase the commitment and participation of 2,250
small and medium companies in family planning program in 14 provinces. BKKBN in collaboration
with the company and Association Company Owners developed family planning services program
involving insurance company. This effort reached a total of 7,503 firms consisting of 2,298 firms with
25-100 employees, 1,688 firms with 101-500 employees, and 303 firms with more than 500 employees.



28
In addition, training of 150 midwives and 215 paramedics in clinical skills, 681 field workers and
motivators in counseling, conducting family planning contest, and providing IEC materials.
The safe motherhood campaign at the villages was well accepted. However, there is difference
from posyandu supported by MOH. The campaign has a few messages about maternal and child health
and similar across the country. In the safe motherhood provinces, the increase of all contraceptive
methods is 4.2 times; LTM users is 2.9 times; and STM users is 4.8 times. In other provinces the increase
of all contraceptive methods 0.3 times and STM 0.6%; however the LTM users decreased 0.2%. The
increase of all contraceptive methods, LTM users, and STM users in the safe motherhood provinces is
larger than those of the non safe motherhood provinces. It indicates that the safe motherhood services in
the 14 provinces may affect the increase of the LTM users even there are many other variables
determnining the use of LTMs.
The enhancement of contraceptive method mix subcomponent was to increase accessibility and
quality of LTM services. The target was to train 3,000 doctors, 3,000 midwives, and 6,000 field workers
in clinical skills. After the project end, a total of 3,709 doctors and 4,531 midwives were trained in IUD
and norplant insertion and removal and sterilization, 6,242 fieldworkers in counseling. In addition, the
project procured 500,000 norplant sets, 200 laparoscopes and 4,000 IUD kits which were distributed to
services delivery points. Although most activities were not directly addressed to the recruitment of the
family planning acceptors, BKKBN reported an increase of the LTM users after the project. Of the total
new acceptors, norplant users increased from 8.3% in 1990 to 10.3% in 1996 and injectable users
increased from 33.5% in 1990 to 47% in 1996. On the other hand, VSC users declined from 3.4% in
1990 to 1.8% in 1996; IUD users declined from 3.4% in 1990 to 1.8% in 1996; Pills users declined from
30.5% in 1990 to 25.4% in 1996; and condom users declined from 2.4% to 1.4%. There is a contribution
of the project in increasing the use on norplant.
The IEC sub- component focused on helping provinces to develop messages for the local needs,
and on enhancing collaboration with the operational bureau for the development of messages for special
population groups. The project provided and distributed equipment to BKKBN Provinces and Districts
including 187 Mobile Information Units, 7 units Media Production Centers, 1 AVA for East Kalimantan,
332 units public address, 301 units video monitor and recorders, 1,505 copies film master and copies, 50
copies/episode serial TV, 9 master and copies of audio, 4 master and copies of video, and provision of
450,000 IEC kits for use in communication by fieldworkers. The Central and Provincial BKKBN have
increased their capacity in developing and distributing IEC local materials.
The youth subcomponent developed youth participation program covering a total of 281 districts,
1,546 subdistricts, 13,087 villages. A total of 11,259 trainers and cadres were trained in 22 provinces;
5,630 training packages and 468,925 materials for cadres were produced; training curriculum and
operational guidelines for youth involvement in family planning program were completed and used. The
family planning activities reached to 88% of total villages targeted during the project implementation.
The results of BKKBN evaluation indicated that in 5 provinces the knowledge of youth on family
planning were good, and they responded and participated positively in the family planning program.
The development of community institutions recorded remarkable increase in the number of
PPKBD and similar increase in the sub PPKBD. BKKBN provided orientation to Chief of Operational
Program from 11 provinces to increase their technical skills in the implementation of the family
planning program. Orientations were also provided to 2,000 fieldworkers, 13,501 women organization at
district, subdistrict, and village levels; 5,222 PPKBDs and sub PPKBDs, and 10,996 cadres; 3,559 head



29
of subdistricts and midwives; and 8,725 community leaders. A total of 121,950 training orientation
materials and guidebooks were produced and distributed to support its implementation of the program.
The project provided various training staff including a specialized training, in country training
and overseas training. The participants of the specialized training included 2,231 staff in program
management, 3,771 field workers in undergraduate training, and another 14,022 field workers for
refresher courses. BKKBN Provinces provided training to total of 3,741 doctors and 4,619 in effective
contraceptive methods, and 6,367 in LTM counseling in 17 provinces. The overseas training program
covered a total of 143 persons consisting of 133 persons in master degree (57 in USA, 35 in UK, and 41
in Australia), and 10 persons in doctoral degree program. In addition, 50 participants involved in the
short-term program in several universities in USA, United Kingdom, and Australia. The International
Training Program with the assistance of foreign consultant improved the curriculum and teaching
materials for courses that offers to participants from other countries. At least 2 workshops about
curriculum development, video program development, and computer skills training were completed. A
training consultant was conducted to select BKKBN staff in Management consultant skills.
In collaboration with several research institutes of Universities conducted a total of 44 research
activities during 5 year period. Most of the results have provided input for improving policy, strategy,
and operation of family planning and population programs both in the central and provincial levels. In
addition, the project improved MIS, provided computers and its software, and trained provincial staff,
and applied the new MIS. BKKBN has improved the existing family planning information system to
support the new redefined goal by UU no 10 1992; the dual role of the Chairperson of BKKBN as the
Ministry of Population as well as other key staff; and the modification of the organizational structure of
BKKBN.
The field operation subcomponent was to provide office equipment, vehicles, medical and non
medical equipment to expand the family planning field operation. The project purchased equipment and
vehicles including 4,219 typewriters, 359 units mimeograph, 31 units laminating equipment, 1,068 units
SSB radio communication, 187 MIUs, 450 four-wheel vehicle, 1,836 motorcycles, 365 computers. The
medical equipment includes 235 vasectomy kits, 23,071 IUD kits, 70 norplant kits, 200 units
laparoscopes, 6,276 OB/Gyn beds. Of the targeted procurement, 90.5% were completed and distributed
to BKKBN central, district, and subdistrict levels.
BKKBN performance. BKKBN was responsible for the project implementation both at the
central and provincial levels. Of the total 1,874 project activities consisting 685 at the central level and
1,189 at the province level, 94.6% were completed. The other 5.4% activities were canceled due to
procurement of boats, overseas training, local training, some research activities, workshops and
seminars. Of the total project cost of Part A US$ 77,559,600.00, 94.3% were disbursed by the end of the
project end, 2.3% are being process, and 3.4% were undisbursed. The high results of programmatic and
financial project accomplishments show a good project performance.
Bank performance. In the appraisal report, the Bank has identified various indicators for project
monitoring and evaluation. On the other hand, BKKBN has discussed with each project component to
select the realistic and most feasible indicators for monitor and submitted to the Bank. Both BKKBN and
Bank did not utilize such indicators for project monitoring and evaluation. The Bank did not have any
simple instrument for project monitoring and evaluation, even though qualitative results of each
monitoring are reported on the Aide Memoire. In addition, the complicated process of issuing NOLs (No
Objection Letter) for each procurement should be reviewed, and less involvement in the process of
procurement should be considered.



30
Partial Successes of the Project
The project has successfully assisted the GOI in declining TFR and increasing various
demographic indicators including CPR, new acceptors, current users, and private sectors participation in
family planning and health services. However, the reduction of fertility and increase of various
demographic indicators should be continued to achieve the replacement level of fertility. The fertility
rate of many provinces mainly outside Java Bali are still high and special effort should be done to
address these problems. In addition, more effective and efficient strategies and operational activities
should be done to address the remaining high maternal mortality rate across the country.
Various project activities were designed to address the project objectives. These included
expanding family planning and primary health services at targeted communities, providing staff in
country and overseas training, training providers in clinical and non clinical skills, developing and
distributing IEC materials for providers, clients and community, conducting research activities, and
improving BKKBN capability in managing family planning program. Most of these activities have
successfully achieved their target and outputs. However, these have not reached to the grass root levels
and need to be continued to achieve the national family movement goal and objectives.
The existing family planning and health facilities have not reached to most people at the hard to
reach areas including coastal areas, urban poor areas, transmigration areas, youth communities, industrial
areas and have not been fully utilized by those seeking who are in need of services. GOI should continue
expanding such services so as to make it available in most of the country mainly to those who do not
have access. These include couples living in hard-to-reach areas, including far-away islands, distant
transmigration areas, as well as the urban poor and others hard-to-reach for social and cultural reasons.
Most of the available services delivery points mainly at the rural areas are not able to provide a
good quality of family planning and health services. Improving the quality of family planning services
should be continued by training skills of providers, providing better medical and non medical equipment,
and improving information and service delivery. Careful screening of acceptors for suitability for
specific methods, counseling about side-effects, making a range of short-and long-term methods
available, and the accessibility of family planning service providers to address follow-up concerns,
including the acceptors' desire to change methods.
Clinical training such as insertion and removal norplant and IUD, sterilization, and infection
prevention, and counseling skills have been provided to doctors and midwives. However, there are many
doctors and midwives either at the services delivery facilities have not received a standardized clinical
training. The project was not able to train all doctors and midwives in clinical skills and counseling. In
addition, there are many village midwives just graduated from the Midwifery Schools and deployed at
the villages. Continued a standardized clinical training skills should be carried out in the future project.
The project has trained BKKBN staff at the central and province levels, and provided various
equipment for developing IEC materials locally. However, such efforts are still very limited and need to
be continued. Increase the capability of staff at the BKKBN province in identifying, developing,
producing, and utilizing various IEC materials which are meeting the local needs should be continued.
Various training skills and workshops in IEC development should be provided to those who responsible
for developing and distributing IEC materials at the provincial and district levels.



31
The previous effort in increasing the participation of private sectors in the family planning and
MCH program is very limited and need to be expanded in the future. Since the government resources in
providing family planning and MCH services are limited, the availability of private sectors and
community resources should be mobilized to assist the government effort in addressing the fertility and
maternal mortality problems. The private sectors could involve in various activities including in
providing family planning and primary health services not only at the urban areas but also at the remote
rural areas, providing clinical and non clinical training under the supervision of the MOH.
The project completed various research activities and some of those are utilized to improve the
policy, strategy and operational program. The need of further research should be identified and
completed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of family planning and health program
management. More specific and good quality research activities should be done in future project. These
included operational research for developing new strategy in reducing fertility and maternal mortality
and evaluation research of various project implementation.
Areas for Further Support
Despite many accomplishments in family planning and safe motherhood promotion the reduction
of fertility should be continued to reach a replacement level. The fertility rate of many provinces are still
high mainly in those provinces out of Java and Bali. In addition, the GOI should put more effort in
reducing the high maternal mortality rate in the next project. Persistently high maternal risk accompanied
by morbidity's and disabilities that results from poor antenatal care, managed complications of pregnancy
and delivery, and post-partum cares. Prevalence of anemia in pregnancy is still high and aggravates the
complications of pregnancy and delivery. These take an enormous toll on family welfare, particularly
among the poor.
Even with the major gains in family planning, much remains to be done. Unmet need remains
high for the poorer, less educated, and geographically remote in segments of the population. Key
improvements in the quality of services are yet to be fully realized, particularly in improving screening,
counseling, and follow-up for side effects of longer-term clinical methods such as IUDs, injectables, and
implants, for which demand is increasing. Safety and informed freedom of choice should be the
hallmarks of quality. Quality is also essential for sustainability, because people will only pay for what
they perceive to be beneficial, and cost-recovery is essential if resources are to be available to extend
coverage to undeserved groups.
Neglected adolescents and youth reproductive health problems should be addressed by both
BKKBN and MOH. Indonesia's adolescents and youth remain poorly prepared for the reproductive
health challenges and responsibilities they will face as they move into their reproductive years. These
challenges are increasing as society urbanizes and exposure to mass media which in turn imparts
attitudes and encourages behaviors that increase reproductive health risks.
Reproductive morbidity before, during and after childbearing years is also need more attention.
Reproductive health problems that affect women before, during and after their childbearing years,
including reproductive tract infections and pregnancy-related morbidity, are the dimension of
reproductive health in Indonesia which have received less attention. Other non-reproductive morbidity,
such as anemia among adolescents, congenital anomalies, rheumatoid heart defect have subsequent
complications during the reproductive process. Further, many of these problems are preventable if
consumers are aware of the problem; when consumers do become aware of the implications, they are
willing to pay for diagnosis and treatment.



32
To guarantee the effectiveness of the future project implementation and management, the
following specific activities should be carried out either at the central or provincial levels.
The family planning and primary health care project (reproductive health) at the hard to reach
areas including coastal areas, transmigration areas, urban poor areas, and organized sectors should be
continued to increase the accessibility and quality of services. The target groups of services also included
the poor population of Pre Welfare and Welfare I (Pra S and KS 1), and should be clearly defined to
provide better services. The project strategy and activities should be designed to provide more effective
services and address local needs. The service strategy should be selected to increase the use of all
methods particularly LTM. Various project inputs should be coordinated and integrated to provide more
efficient services delivery.
The project needs to maintain its focus on quality of training both pre-service and inservice
especially for doctors, midwives, paramedics, and fieldworkers who work at the targeted areas.
Standardized clinical and non clinical training including IUD and norplant insertion and removal,
tubectomy, vasectomy, infection prevention, counseling technique, and IEC delivery should be provided
to those who become trainers and providers. Guidelines, manuals, clinical and non clinical equipment
should be provided to various service delivery points including health centers, sub health centers, village
health posts, and clinics to increase quality of services. Monitoring and evaluation of the training
activities should be conducted to improve such activities during the project period.
IEC materials developed at the central level did not meet local need. Therefore, these should be
developed and produced in the provincial and district levels. In addition, the IEC materials should be
developed based upon P-Process to provide better and right information for the clients. The existing
materials should be evaluated and redesigned to provide more effective messages. Orientation meetings
with community and religious leaders should be followed up to develop their commitment and
involvement in the reproductive health program.
Research and development is needed to provide information for improving project strategies and
implementation. The research problems should be discussed and identified by related Bureau, BKKBN
Provinces and Research Centers. Research and development activities should be conducted by
professional researchers and research institutes which could develop good quality of research proposals,
completed research in time, and submitting report in accordance with the schedule. This mechanism will
increase the use of research results by the program.
The next population project (reproductive health) should not be developed only by BKKBN, but
should involve representatives of other sectors including MOH, PEMDA, Department of Religion,
NGOs, community leaders and other related institutions at provincial, district, and subdistrict levels. An
effective and efficient planning technique such as "Objective Oriented Project Planning" (ZOPP) should
be applied in developing future population project.
During the project implementation, better coordination should be done by BKKBN with other
related Ministries, among various Bureaus, Centers, Divisions at the Central and Provincial levels. In
addition, various project inputs and activities in reproductive health services should be integrated each
other to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of resources.
BKKBN and the Bank need to develop more efficient mechanisms in processing NOL for
procurement of good and services. Procurement of clinical and non clinical equipment and goods for



33
provinces such as boats, vehicles, motorcycles, SSB, and other needs should be based upon the local
needs in the province. Selection of foreign and local consultants should be carefully recruited in order to
meet the need of expertise in providing technical assistance. Research proposal should be carefully
reviewed so as to meet the need of the program. In addition, an effective project monitoring and
evaluation should be conducted to provide information for improving project management.
The management of a new project should be integrated into the BKKBN management function
and responsibility. Each bureau should involve in managing its related project component. In case of a
large project coverage, cost and lack of the existing management capability of the borrower, it is
essential that enough staff or consultants have been assigned specifically to assist the project
management.



34
Implementation Completion Report
INDONESIA
Population V Project/Part B
Loan 3298 - IND
Borrowers Evaluation of the Population V Project - Part B.
Project Design
1.    The broad goal of the Part B project is to ensure that the Indonesian midwifery programs
have the financial human and managerial resources necessary to achieve the desired changes in the
midwifery development during the five years project period. The objective of these changes are to
decrease maternal mortality in accordance with targets set in Repelita V/VI. The goal and objective
as stated are relevant to the government's need and consistent with the government's strategy to
accelerate the reduction of Indonesia's ligh maternal mortality.
2.  The three major components of Part B:
1. Strengthening policy framework on training and deployment of midwives,
2. Strengthening training capacity through training of trainers or teachers and  improving
teaching materials and equipment and
3. Supporting training and improvement of the effectiveness of about 16.000   community
midwives.
The three major components have addressed issues specific to midwifery training program like the
number of midwives, the quality of midwifery and the capacity of training institutions as well as
contributed to strengthening effectively of midwives deployment at village level.
3.    The project objective to support enhanced coordination and joint operational planning
between BKKBN and MOH is appropriate, however it is well known that effective intersectoral
coordination is difficult to materialized if there is lack of strong commitment among the parties
concerned.
4.    For a project with a five year project life the size is more or less right. If the activities are
planned properly and implemented efficiently it would be feasible to accomplish the work within the
defined period. The selected components are quite appropriate with a flexibility enable to include
additional relevant activities. The scope of investment is sufficient to facilitate the various aspects
of the development of midwives.
5.    As project activities support mainly the training and deployment of midwives, the two
institutions, the Directorate of Family Health and the Center for Education of Health Manpower
particularly the nursing schools running midwifery training programs would be strengthened.



35
6.    No aspect would be anticipated which lead to implementation difficulties. Minor problems
are expected in obtaining the necessary information on the distribution of books and equipment to
the schools and midwives and in obtaining of the financial reports from the provinces.
7.    The Staff Appraisal Report provided a comprehensive picture of the nature and scope of the
project and guided the project management for correct implementation but some selected process
indicators were less sensitive for measuring project success and impact indicators were less feasible
applied to a five year project.
Project Implementation
8.    The project was implemented during a five-year period within the Indonesia's fiscal years
1991/1992 to 1995/1996. Part B components and activities were mainly for the development of
community midwives in order to support the national safe motherhood program. The project started
with budget provision of the first year period from April 1991 to March 1992 and without
opportunity for project extension it was closed on September 30, 1996 as has been planned.
9.    The Director General of Community Health MOH was the project manager who was
responsible for overall project implementation. The Chief, Directorate of Family Health was the
project director responsible for annual project planning, implementation, monitoring and
supervision. A project secretariat with full-time staff was established since the start of the project.
All project secretariat personnel were not recruited for five years as suggested in the staff appraisal
report but assigned annually to provide more flexibility in changing of secretariat personnel if
necessary.
10. An intersectoral task force chaired by the Secretary General MOH was established at central
level for monitoring the production and deployment of midwives. During the last 2 years no task
force meetings were held. One of the reasons might be that the target of producing-54.000 midwives
and posting them in the villages was already achieved.
11.   Based on the nature of the project components most of the activities were budgeted and
implemented by the Directorate of Family Health (Dit. Bina Kesga), the Center for Education of
Health Manpower and the 13 project provinces. For a period of 2 years the Center for Training of
Health Personnel (Pusdiklat) took part by conducting a pilot Life Saving Skills (LSS) training for the
community of midwives through distance learning.
12.   During the first year project period delays in project implementation and administration were
observed. It was apparently caused by insufficient experiences of most officials and project
secretariat staff involved in project management. Another constraint for fast implementation was the
lack of mastering the Bank's procedures, the frequent changing of the government regulation and the
amount of staff to be involved before an activity could start. Starting from the second year the
secretariat tried to accelerate project implementation by intensifying communication with the people
concerned, making consistent efforts to solve the problems encountered and in obtaining faster
decision from the related authorities. Two other problems hampering fast implementation of the



36
-prject were the insufficient knowledge of some tender committee members in formulating
specification of the teaching equipment for the schools and the complicated procedure to be
followed for direct appointing of companies providing consultants, fellowships and conducting
studies. However in general project implementation was considered successful reflected by
accomplishment of most of the activities and timely disbursement. The estimated disbursement after
the closing account is 96%.
13.   Bank's regular supervision mission and its Aide Memories made substantial contribution to
accelerate project implementation and facilitated consistent follow up. Comments given to study
proposals were very helpful but the back and forth correspondence was time consuming leading to
canceling some studies.
14.   It was noted that capabilities of some local agencies conducting studies and evaluation were
inadequate, the products therefore were less satisfying. This could be prevented by more careful
selection of the agencies involved.
Project Results
A. Strengthening ofpolicyframework
15.   One of the major achievement of this project was the Minister of Health Decree no: 572
issued on June 1996, regulating the registration and the practice of midwives. The main difference
with the previous decree was the provision of more authorities to the midwives, particularly in
handling abnormal deliveries. In order to maintain the quality of the midwives a recommendation
from Ikatan Bidan Indonesia (IBI) was required for obtaining the license and a renewal of the license
should be applied after every five years, if the midwife would continue having practice. As this
decree is still in broad terms, the Director General of Community Health would provide guidelines
for implementation.
16.   The Establishment of a Midwifery Board suggested by the Bank was not materialized, but
the idea of assuring quality and standardizing midwifery practice were embodied in the new
Ministerial Decree.
17.   The project provided overseas study tours to key officials related to midwifery training
programs and midwives deployment; overseas fellowships training were also provided to midwife-
teachers, including Ikatan Bidan Indonesia (IBI) members. Assisted by international consultants the
project conducted evaluations of the various midwifery training program. All of this did contribute
to increasing the awareness that a better quality of midwives were needed for speeding up the
reduction of maternal and neonatal mortality. As a response the MOH started this year with running
the D3 midwifery education, supported by the project by the provision of adequate teaching
equipment and teachers training abroad for the 6 planned D3 programs.
B. Strengthening Training Capacity



37
18.   The project supported the revision of the curriculum for midwifery training program A,
completed in 1994 replacing the 1991 curriculum.
Then all program A training implemented the 1994 curricula. However the professional
competencies gained by the graduates were still questionable as the time allocated for midwifery
training remains 1 year compared to the old system of 2 to 3 years.
19.   It was noted that many midwife teachers were nurses or midwives who did not receive
adequate midwifery training and did not assist in the delivery in the community.  It was
understandable that they were not very qualified in teaching midwifery, except those who were
working in the hospitals. To improve the quality of the midwife teachers the project sent 42 midwife
teachers to UK to joint a short course in education technique and advanced midwifery. Two other
midwife teachers who were having sufficient English language capability have successfully obtained
the post graduate diploma in advanced midwifery. Twenty midwife teachers were sent to Australia
to attend a short course in problem-based learning in midwifery education. In-country training were
also given to midwife teachers and clinical instructors.
20.   The project also improved the accreditation tools used for measuring the midwifery training
programs. Accreditation forms were sent to 136 schools located in the 13 project provinces but only
102 schools or 75% returned the forms. From the returned forms conclusion was made that 22,55%
of the schools obtained a score of 86-100, 57,85% the score was 71-85 and the remainder or 19,60%
the score was less than 71.
21.   The project provided teaching materials, audio visual aids and teaching equipment to 121
program A training, 5 program B training and 6 D3 midwifery training
22.   In order to improve the midwifery training program a Midwife Supervisor was assigned in
each province for supervising and guiding the implementation of the program. Regular meetings for
the midwife supervisors were held to clarify their duties and supervision guidelines were provided.
C.    Training and Improving Effectiveness of Community Midwives
23.   The project supported the program A training of 16.085 community midwives, conducted in
97 nursing schools in the 13 project provinces. This number contributed 29,72% to the government
target of 54.000 community midwives to be produced up to third year of Repelita VI, 1996/1997.
They were posted in the villages as civil -servants or recruited on contractual basis (PTT). The
project provided all the newly posted midwives in the project villages with midwifery kits, IUD kits,
books and manuals. About 16.240 bidan kits, 14.790 IUD kits and 14.413 sets of books were
provided to those midwives.
24.   Noting that most of the newly graduated midwives still lack confidence and skill in handling
emergency cases, the project supported the introduction of the LSS training as a pilot effort in the
project. About 7.529 midwives jointed the LSS training and about 700 midwives received LSS
training through distance learning. However this 12 days training was regarded too short and less
effective. A longer training program was introduced by American College of Nurse Midwives



38
(ACNM) using a strict criteria for the selection of training site, training equipment and number of
trainees.
25.   Because of the increasing number of community midwives working in a district, a bidan
coordinator was established to assist the HC doctor in supervising and monitoring the community
midwives.. The project supported the development of working guidelines for the midwife
coordinators.
26.   The project initiated the establishment of a database for the midwives. The intention was to
enable check the midwives whether they reside in the assigned villages or whether they received the
distributed kits and books. Personal data and mutation data would be recorded. Computers were
sent to 26 provinces and a software for data processing was provided. Training for the application of
the software were given to staff engaged in data processing but it seemed that the time for training
was too short for mastering the software.
D. Studies
27.   Various studies and operations research were conducted during project implementation.
Some studies like the identification of the potentials of villages and the time motion study of the
community midwives were beneficial. The innovative interventions for reducing maternal and
neonatal mortality carried out through operations research were helpful for the MCH program
holders at the Directorate of Family Health but some results were not convincing due to the small
samples which have been taken and the limited time available for doing the research.
E. Project Sustainability
28.   The new MOH Decree No. 572 issued in June 1996 which gives more authority to the
midwives would be one of the sustainable product of the project. This will protect the midwives in
handling complicated cases in remote areas where doctors and senior midwives are not available to
supervised them as has been required in the previous Decree. For operational purposes the new
Decree would be elaborated and issued as guidelines of the Director General of Community Health.
29.   Another product which is regarded sustainable is the standard and protocol of midwifery
practice which have been published by IBI and disseminated to all IBI members.
30.   The D3 academic midwifery program which was much supported by the project is expected
to running well in the future.
31.   The LSS training introduced by the project is felt as compulsory training for the midwife for
improving her skills for handling emergency obstetrical and neonatal cases. The MOH and IBI have
continued conducting this training to other midwives.
32.   A monthly publication, called the Buletin Bidan, was issued by the Center of Education of
Health Manpower, and is a forum of communication between midwives in the field. The project



39
provided funds for its printing and dissemination to all provinces. After the project the Center for
Education of Health Manpower will continue producing the Bulletin.
F. Lessons Learned
33.   It was observed that at the early stage of project life delays were encountered in project
implementation. This was common in many projects with foreign aids. These delays could be
minimized by producing important documents and early involvement of key officials and staff for
project management before the project start. The availability of the type, number of man months
and TOR of the needed international and domestic consultants before project commencing would be
very helpful for immediate start. If the need for studies and training could be described in more
detail and TOR's could be developed in advance, it will facilitate the project a lot. Another
important point is to provide the key officials and staff with sufficient knowledge of procurement
and disbursement procedures and request them for mastering the loan agreement, staff appraisal
report and government regulation.
34.   To maintain and improve the quality of midwives the Bank recommended the establishment
of a midwifery board for registration of midwives and licensing of midwifery practice. For this
purpose the project organized 3 groups of study tours for 15 key officials related to education,
training and deployment of midwives. The countries visited were Thailand, UK, The Netherland,
The Philippines, Australia, USA, Canada and Denmark. However, this independent midwifery body
was not materialized as this set up was not in line with the Indonesian system where such authority
of control is still kept by the government, instead, the functions of such a board were embodied in
the MOH organization structure.
35.   There is a need to improve the quality of training of midwives, particularly midwife teachers
and clinical instructors. To date the target of producing sufficient midwives for posting them in the
villages has been achieved. Priority should be given to producing competent graduates which needs
strong commitment from the GOI. Training programs for midwife teachers (program B) need to be
upgraded rather than closed down. Additional training for the midwife teachers should be more in
the country as their English language proficiency are limited.
36.   The project supported the deployment of community midwives in the project villages.
Facilities and working tools were given such as shelter, berthing homes, midwife kits, IUD kits,
books and operational cost. The village head has the duty to make the midwife comfortable in the
village. However, some efforts have to be made to keep the midwives in the villages after the
contract is finished.






IBRD 22865
odAwl,                   NDQT'INDONESIA
South China sea                                                       ~~~~~~FIFTH  POPULATION  PROJECT
/  /                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRUNFLIJFamily Planning and Safe Motherhood
P    ~'od A Soanr(CompoenPt
A Sol   oterinnlProotn
Ni                     ~~~~~~~~SINGAPOREMoo                                                                                                      PWIPeIM
A t  /                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PACIFIC OCEAN\
do~ ~~~imi/
[3                  Ke~~~~~~-odo           Ambon                                      <             -
j- 5-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                                                                                                'z
Semn  At                                                                                                                       son~~~~SUaAA  t.
* NtotioaooCopttot   INDIAN OCEAN                             23/"y                                                         ___________                             n
we   so'                                        mm   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<j) (tC>    AU~~~~~~~~~~~~~STRALIA  er
FEBRUARY 1991









IMAGING
Report No.:        16801
Type:     ICR



