Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3298 IND
              (Fifth Population (Family Planning and
                     Safe Motherhood) Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated May 3, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3298 IND
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "BKKBN" means the Borrower's National Family Planning
Coordinating Board operating pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 64
of 1983;
      (b)   "DEPKES" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health; and
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred four million dollars ($104,000,000), being
the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1996 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
                   ment, beginning with the Interest Period in
Page  3
                   which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and ex-
                   pressed as a percentage per annum, of the out-
                   standing borrowings of the Bank drawn down after
                   June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
                   portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
through BKKBN and Part B of the Project through DEPKES, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, engineering, financial, public health and family
planning and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  4
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than nine months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
                   quested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders, in-
                   voices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the Borrower's Presidential Decree No. 64 of 1983 shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, so as to
materially and adversely affect the conduct of BKKBN's operations or
its financial condition or the ability of BKKBN to carry out
obligations under this Agreement.
Page  5
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Finance
            c/o Director General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 139
            Jakarta, Indonesia
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINMINISTRY               DJMLN IA 45799
                   Jakarta                   DEPKEU IA 44319
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington,D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                         By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  6
                         By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Equipment, vehicles     34,600,000        100% of foreign
      and materials:                            expenditures,
                                                100% of local
      (a) Family Planning                       expenditures
          Information                           (ex-factory
          System                                cost) and 65%
          (Part A (4) (d))                      of local
                                                expenditures for
      (b) Other than                            other items
          (a) above                             procured locally
(2)   Contraceptives           9,800,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(3)   Local Training:         26,200,000        70%
      (a) Training of
          midwives
          (Part B (3))
      (b) Other than
          (a) above
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4)   Technical               19,100,000        100%
      assistance,
      overseas fellow-
      ships research
      and evaluation
(5)   Project develop-        12,100,000        65%
      ment and midwife
      deployment
(6)   Unallocated              2,200,000
                              __________
      TOTAL                  104,000,000
                             ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
Page  7
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures in respect of Category
(1) (a) until the first phase of the Study of the Family Planning
Information System (Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement) shall
have been completed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
      (b)   payments made for expenditures in respect of Category
(3) (a) until recommendations, based on the results of the ongoing
Assessment of midwifery training capacity (Part B (3) of Schedule 2
to this Agreement), shall have been mutually agreed by the Borrower
and the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to decrease fertility and
maternal mortality by strengthening the Borrower's family planning
and maternal health programs.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Targeted Family Planning and Safe Motherhood Promotion
            (BKKBN)
1.    Strengthen BKKBN's capacity to coordinate family planning and
promote safe motherhood, especially in the following areas:
      (a)   about 2000 villages in approximately 125 districts in
coastal areas;
      (b)   about 740 transmigration units in 13 provinces;
      (c)   poor urban areas in seven major cities; and
      (d)   about 2250 firms in the organized sector.
2.    Improving the accessibility to appropriate contraceptive
technology by training approximately 3000 doctors, 3000 paramedic
and midwives and about 6000 BKKBN fieldworkers.
3.     Strengthening BKKBN's capabilities in information, education
and communication as well as youth outreach, by training, fellow-
ships (overseas and local) and provision of new equipment and
materials to establish approximately 185 Media Information Units and
provide about 45,000 information, education and communications kits
for use in communication by fieldworkers.
4.     Strengthening BKKBN's institutional capabilities for family
planning program coordination, monitoring and research by:
      (a)   rehabilitating administrative facilities, including the
provision of equipment and vehicles to expand field operation;
      (b)   training BKKBN staff in the following areas: (i)
specialized training and upgrading management and health skills of
fieldworkers; (ii) in-country fellowship program, consisting of
training programs for BKKBN family planning technicians and managers
both short- and long-term; (iii) overseas training, for future
middle level management and technical experts for BKKBN; and
      (c)   (i) strengthen BKKBN's research capacities to provide
timely and relevant research to guide population and family planning
policies and program development; and (ii) assess its overall Family
Planning Information System, including data collection and its
Page  8
utilization.
Part B:     Midwives Development (DEPKES)
1.    Strengthening the policy framework to establish and deploy
midwives at the village level throughout Indonesia.
2.    Strengthening midwifery training capacity, including training
of trainers, developing refresher courses and providing new
equipment and materials.
3.    Training, deployment and field support for about 16,000
midwives at the village level in mutually agreed provinces.
                  *           *           *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due              (expressed in dollars)*
December 1, 1996                          1,895,000
June 1, 1997                              1,970,000
December 1, 1997                          2,045,000
June 1, 1998                              2,125,000
December 1, 1998                          2,205,000
June 1, 1999                              2,290,000
December 1, 1999                          2,380,000
June 1, 2000                              2,475,000
December 1, 2000                          2,570,000
June 1, 2001                              2,670,000
December 1, 2001                          2,770,000
June 1, 2002                              2,880,000
December 1, 2002                          2,990,000
June 1, 2003                              3,105,000
December 1, 2003                          3,225,000
June 1, 2004                              3,350,000
December 1, 2004                          3,480,000
June 1, 2005                              3,615,000
December 1, 2005                          3,755,000
June 1, 2006                              3,900,000
December 1, 2006                          4,050,000
June 1, 2007                              4,205,000
December 1, 2007                          4,370,000
June 1, 2008                              4,535,000
December 1, 2008                          4,710,000
June 1, 2009                              4,895,000
December 1, 2009                          5,085,000
June 1, 2010                              5,280,000
December 1, 2010                          5,485,000
June 1, 2011                              5,690,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
Page  9
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on the
                                     day of prepayment multiplied
                                     by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I   Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Indonesia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for equipment and printing services
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
2.    Items or groups of items for equipment and printing in
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000 may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Contracts for contraceptive implants may be awarded after
direct negotiations with the supplier, if single source, or
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Page  10
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for vehicles, and with
respect to each contract for equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall maintain its Family Planning and Safe
Motherhood Steering Committee until the completion of the Project.
Such Steering Committee shall be responsible for the overall
coordination of the Project and shall meet at least two times a
year.
2.    The Borrower shall, by July 31, 1991, appoint BKKBN's Project
Secretariat and DEPKES's Project Secretariat.
3.    The Borrower shall cause BKKBN and DEPKES, assisted by the
relevant Project Secretariats, to prepare annual progress reports.
Such reports shall be coordinated and initially reviewed by the
Family Planning and Safe Motherhood Steering Committee and furnished
to the Bank for review by September 15 of each year.
4.    The Borrower shall cause BKKBN and DEPKES to prepare annual
implementation plans for Part A and Part B of the Project, respec-
tively, which plans will include performance and process indicators
for each component, and with respect to the annual implementation
plan to be prepared by BKKBN, the Borrower shall cause BKKBN to
prepare research packages, constituting in-depth research proposals
covering objectives, rationale and linkages with BKKBN's overall
research strategy and priorities. The Borrower shall cause each such
Page  11
plan to be furnished to the Bank by September 15 of each year for
its review, comment, and discussion with Bank review mission in
October of each year.
5.    In accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the Loan
Agreement, the Borrower shall hire, or caused to be hired, by
July 31, 1991, an experienced information systems expert consultant
to assist BKKBN in undertaking a review of its overall Family
Planning Information Systems including information needs, data
collection and its utilization.
6.    The Borrower shall cause BKKBN to contract, by September 15,
1991, the administrative and academic monitoring, financial
management and personal counselling of students with fellowships
with funds from the Loan to specialist agencies in the countries
where the students are located.
7.    With respect to each of the target groups specified in Part
A(1) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
undertake, or cause BKKBN to undertake, a mid-term review (expected
to begin in September 1993) and furnish, or cause to be furnished to
the Bank, by May 31, 1994, the recommendations of such review
including the means of improving the reach of each type of service.
8.    The Borrower shall ensure that the midwifery students whose
training is financed through the Loan work only in mutually agreed
provinces, and that midwifery classes shall emphasize practical
training in family planning methods and actual delivery.
9.    The Borrower shall cause DEPKES to review, and improve, as
necessary, its guidelines on the certification and licensing of
community midwives and on the accreditation of nurse midwives'
schools, and to implement any such improvements by December 31,
1992.
                             SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $6,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  12
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
Page  13
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
