Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5307-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
MAY 10, 1990
Tbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEN-S
Annual Averages
1981                  K 1.00 = US$ 1.49
1982                  K 1.00 - USS 1.36
1983                  K 1.00 - US$ 1.20
1984                  K 1.00 = US$ 1.12
1985                  K 1.00 = USS 1.00
1986                  K 1.00 = USS 1.03
1987                  K 1.00 = US$ 1.10
1988                  K 1.00 = USS 1.15
1989                  K 1.00 = US$ 1.16
March 31, 1990         K 1.00 = USS 1.02
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      -   Asian Development Bank
Adcol    -   Administrative College
BCL      -    Bougainville Copper Limited
BPNG     -    Bank of Papua New Guinea
CPI      -    Cousumer Price Index
CCFF     -    Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility
DFP      -    Department of Finance and Planning
EEC      -    European Economic Community
HEP      -    Higher Education Plan
IDA      -    International Development Association
IFC      -    International Finance Corporation
IMF      -    International Monetary Fund
MIGA     -   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MLT      -   Medium- to Long-term
MRDC     -   Mineral Resources Development Corporation
NIDA     -    National Investment Development Authority
NTP      -    National Training Policy
O&M      -    Operations and Maintenance
PEA      -    Public Employees Association
PIP      -    Public Investment Program
PNG      -    Papua New Guinea
RMC           Resource Management Committee
SAL      -    Structural Adjustment Loan
SNAPEM   -    Strengthening National and
Provincial Economic Management
SOE      -    Statement of Expenditure
TFAP     -    Tropical Forestry Action Plan
UNDP     -    United Nations Development Program



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
PAPUA imr 6U0A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSIII    LOAN
Loan and Program Summry
Borrower                  :  The Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Amount                    :  US$50 million equivalent
Terms                     s  20 years, including 5 yerrs of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Description               :  The objective of the proposed loan is to support
the stabilization and structu:al adjustment
program the Government has embarked on in
response to adverse shocks, including the closure
of the Bougainville mine. The program focuses
on: macroeconomic policy adjustments to maintain
financial stability; improvements in public
resource management, through atrengthening
revenue mobilization, improving expenditure
management and enhancing institutional
capacities; and promotion of the nonmining
private sector, through adjustments in exchange
rate and wage policies, investment deregulation,
privatization, and trade policy reform.
Benefits and Risks        :  Effective implementation of the program to be
suppported by the proposed loan will: allow
domestic and external financial stability to be
maintained in the face of a large shortfall in
export income; minimize the short-term costs of
adjustment and facilitate an early economic
recovery; and ley the basis for follow-up
structural reform and development to help achieve
stronger and broad-based growth in the economy
over the medium term. The implementation of the
program and the economic outlook are subject to
three main risks: policy slippage due to
political opposition to some of the envisaged
adjustments; the uncertain outlook for the
Bougainville mine; and delays in the development
of the new mineral projects and/or shortfalls in
their financial contribution to the economy. The
political risk is mitigated by the strong
commitment to adjustment already demonstrated by
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the rarformnance
of thieir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worl' 4:' authorization.



- ii -
the Government, and a special program of
interventions aimed specifically et alleviating
the social costs of adjustment that the
Government will be undertaking with donor
assistance. A prolonged closure of the
Bougainville mine and delays in new mineral
projects will require a continuation of
stabilization policies beyond the period of the
present program (1990-91) and will constrain
growth in the medium-term. The various
uncertainties relating to mineral sector
developments reinforce the case for a strong,
multiyear program of structural reform to develop
the nonmining economy.
Estimated Disbursements  s  The loan will be disbursed in two equal tr%nches
of US$25 million, the first upon loan
effectiveness and the second upon completion of a
satisfactory review of overall impleme.tation of
the program and the implementation of specific
second tranche release actions. The review of
program implementation for the release of the
second tranche wv..ll be held within six months of
the release of the first tranche. Disbursement
of the entire loan is expected to be completed
within 18 months of loar effectiveness.
Economic Rate of Return  a  Not applicable
Appraisal Report          s  None



PAPUJA REV CUIRKA
STUCTURAL ADm si? LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY                                                i
I.    THE ECONOMY .       1....                     ..   . .......
A.  Improvement in Economic Performance, 1985-88 .1
B. Recent Shocks and Need for Adjustment            ..           3
II.   THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (1990-91) ........6....                    6
A.    Program  Objectives   ......................................  6
B. Main Elements of Adjustment Program                           7
(a) Macroeconomic Framework for Stabilization             7
(b) Improvement of Public Resource Management             8
(c) Promotion of Nonmining Private Sector                11
C. Economic and Financial Outlook                               13
D. Social Impact of Adjustment                                  15
E. Financing of Adjustment .................................   16
F. Program Risks and Uncertainties in Outlook    ........       17
III.   THE PROPOSED LOAN ... ............... ... . .... ......... . .... ........... .   19
A.  Loan History ***********..................*..*.....**.........   19
B.  Loan Administration ...         .......................... ........   19
C.  Tranche Release Conditions ............... ... .............   21
D.  Program Implementation and Monitoring ...................   23
IV.   BANK GROUP STRATEGY IN PNG ..................................   23
V.     COLLABORATION  WITH   14   .............. . .......................  26
V'1.   RECOMMENDATION o .......o .*..o...**....o.. 26



Page No.
ANNES
I.    Key Economic Indicator Tables            ................ .......   27
II.   Status of Bank Group Operations in PNG        ......................   31
III.   Supplementary Data Sheet .. ... ...... . ........... ......    32
IV.   Letter of Development Policy             ......... ............   33
V.    Policy Hatrix ................*****...............   46
TEXT TABLES
Table 1    Recent Economic Developments, 1980-89.                      2
Table 2    Impact of Adverse Economic Shocks, 1989-91                  4
Table 3    Macroeconomic Adjustment Response 1989-91                   5
Table 4    Economic Outlook During Program Period and
Medium Term, 1990-99 ..............          .13
Table 5    External Financing Requirements and Sources
During Program Period, 1990-91.                         17



REPORT AND RECOMTKNDAION OF THE PURSIDENT
OF THE IITENUMTIONAL IA[ FOV RECOXSTRUCTION AIMD DEVELMOMET
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
STRUCTURAL ADJUS!TENT LOAN TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA VEW GUINEA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
structural adjustment loan to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea (PNG)
for the equivalent of US$50 million. The proposed loan will have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, and will carry the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
2.       An economic report, entitled 'Papua New Guinea: Strategy for
Adjustment and Growth' (No. 8518-PNG, dated April 30, 1990) was distributed vo
the Executive Directors on May 4, 1990. Annex I gives the main economic
indicators of the country.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Improvement in Economic Performance. 1985-88
3.       Papua New Guinea's economic performance was on an improving trend in
the second half of the 1980s. Overall economic growth revived sufficiently
during 1985-88 to allow some recovery in per capita income following several
years of decline (Table 1). It also permitted a pick-up in employment growth.
The almost continuous fall in public investment occurring in the first half of
the decade was halted and some ground regained. The improvement in
performance was the most noticeable in macroeconomic management. Both the
fiscal and balance of payments deficits were substantially reduced, inflation
was curbed to below 51 p.a., and discipline was restored over external
borrowing which was reflected in an improved debt service position. Improved
fiscal performance enabled PNG to reduce its reliance on Australian budgetary
support.
4.       Most of the acceleration of economic growth occurring during this
period, however, was on account of increased activity in the mining sector,
which has weak linkages with the rest of the economy and a limited capacity to
generate employment. Growth in the nonmining economy, the source of income
and employment to the bulk of the population, also rose, but modestly. Thus,
despite the stronger overall growth, the increase in employment was
insufficient to keep unemployment, already high, from rising.  An important
factor underlying this outcome was the limited progress made in improving the
environment for private sector investment. Private nonmineral investment
continued to decline in real terms for most of this period.  In the absence of
broad-based growth, regional income disparities appear to have increased, with
areas lacking mineral resources or established treecrop cultivation lagging
behind others.



-2-
Tabl I: R£ENW ECONMIC SEVlPYIEnS, 160-88
1980-84    198548      1989
Est.
Real Growth Rates fW g.o..
Gross domestic product                        1.8         a.7       1.4
Mineral                                    -7.0        15.4       -4.0
Nonmineral                                  1.9         2.8        2.1
Agriculture /a                            1.6         8.0        2.1
Manufacturing                             1.6         1.0        1.0
Conetruction A utilities                  5.9         2.0        6.9
Services                                   1.9        1.8        1.7
Fixed investment                              0.1        -1.5      15.4
Nonminoral                                 -7.0        -1.7        1.5
Public                                    -8.0        2.5        1.8
Private                                   -8.2       -4.5        1.0
Exports                                       6.7         7.6       8.8
Nomineral                                  0.7         1.2       20.5
Selocted Indicators
Overall fittcl bailnce/GNP (M)               -4.5        -2.0      -1.0
Current account balance/GOP ()              -1.9         -6.8      -11.1
Nonmineral                                -19. s      -17.0      -17.7
Gross reserves (SS  illIon) /b                440         474       4.8
months of nonminerl imports                 02          C8         48
Debt service ratio tl) A                     84.9        20.1      24.1
ULT dsbt (USI oillIon)                      1,672       2,190      2,885
Of which public debt                        982       1,848      1,427
merchandise term  of trade (1988 * 100) /A    100         100        86
R"l effetlv exchange rate (1986 a LOOV&      112         100       103
consr prices (S p.O.)                         7.1         4.5       4.6
Including foretry end filherles
j; For last year of ultiyear periods.
Source: Dat provided by P14 authoritles and staff estiates.
5.       With significant improvements in the economy's macrofinancial
indicators but continuing weakness of growth in the nonmining economy and the
associated difficulty of creating adequate new employment opportunities, the
Government recognized that greater attention needed to be given to addressing
the underlying structural constraints to stronger growth in the nonmining
sectors. This was reflected in a step-up in efforts, toward the end of the
1985-88 period, aimed ats raising public investment; improv-ng the aLlocation
of public resources, particularly bolstering programs for human resource
development; building up public institutional capacities, especially for the
preparation and implementation of development projects; and encouraging the
growth of the private sector. While in terms of the results actually achieved
during this period, the progress was relatively modest in most of these areas,
the initiatives taken, e.g., the introduction of a comprehensive, medium-term
public investment program, helped lay the ground for stronger efforts and more
substantive gains in the future.



- 3 -
B. Recent Shocks and Need for Adjustment
6.       The promisit ; improving trend in economic performance that developed
during 1985-88 was interrupted in 1989 by some severe shocks. In May 1989,
the Bougainville copper and gold mine (BCL) was forced to close because of
violent sabotage actions by militant landowners. Although the agitation was
initially triggered by landowner demands for larger compensation for the use
of their land and the claimed damages to the environment, it subsequently
became linked to a secessionist movement in North Solomons Province, of which
the Bougainville island is a part. Until its closure, the mine had
contributed about 35Z of export earnings, 151 of government revenue and 8x of
GDP. The effects of the mine closure were compounded by sharp falls in the
prices of most of PNG's commodity exports, resulting in a nearly 15X
deterioration in the merchandise terms of trade during the year. Moreover, as
the security situation in North Solomons Province deteriorated because of the
Bougainville crisis, it also began to disrupt other economic activity in the
province, especially production at cocoa plantations (the province produces
40-451 of the country's cocoa, the third most important nonmineral export).
The major financial impact of these shocks in 1989 was felt on the balance of
payments, with an estimated loss of potential export earnings of about 251.
Tbe impact on government revenues was less, since BCL's corporate tax and
dividend payments are made with a one-year lag. These developments also
caused a sharp downturn in economic activity.
7.       The Government responded promptly to the deterioration in the
economic situation by tightening fiscal and monetary policies, including
announcing expenditure cuts, lowering the credit expansion target, and
inducing an increase in interest rates. These measures contributed
significantly to containing the macroeconomic imbalances arising from the
aforesaid shocks. The impact of the shocks was also mitigated during 1989 by
some offsetting favorable mineral sector developments, namely, an increase in
copper production at the Ok Tedi mine; the start of gold production at the new
Mistima mine and of construction work at the Porgera gold mine; and a sizable
drawdown by BCL of its offshore balances to meet its domestic tax and other
payments obligations. These measures and developments allowed the overall
balance of payments deficit to be contained to US$60 million (1.7S of GDP),
and the fiscal deficit to 11 of GDP. While the payments deficit was much
lower than would otherwise have been the case, it still entailed a significant
decline in official foreign reserves, which fell to just over four months of
normineral imports, the minimum level considered prudent by the Government.
Also, the economy suffered a loss of the growth momentum built up over the
past few years, as the GDP growth rate fell to 1.4S, well below the 41
projected originally for the year and the estimated population growth rate of
about 2.51 p.a.



8.       The full impact of the sbocks confronting the PNG economy will begin
to be felt in 1990. While there is considerable uncertainty as to when the
Bougainville mine might reopen, it is virtually certain that it will remain
closed throughout 1990 and 1991. The projections discussed in this report
assume that the mine will resume production at the beginning of 1992. (There
is a clear possibility of the mine remaining closed beyond 1991, however; this
scenario is examined in Part II, Section P). It can be seen from Table 2 that
the closure of the mine in 1990 and 1991 has severe macroeconomic implications
in these years. It will, on an average annual basis during this period,
exercise a net negative effect on the balance of payments of about K 250
million (7? of GDP), cause a loss of fiscal revenues of about K 150 million
(4.32 of GDP), and entail a loss of national income of about K 200 million
(5.72 of GDP). As shown in the table, these effects would be magnified by
substantial additional losses resulting from the two other shocks mentioned
above, in particular the decline in export prices. The prices of most of
PNG's exports are projected to register significant further drops during this
period followed by a modest recovery in later years. This is expected to
cause the external merchandise terms of trade to deteriorate by about 8Z in
1990 and 5 in 1991. The combined effect of the aforesaid shocks on the
balance of payments, the fiscal position and national income could amount to
as much as 12?, 4.52 and lIZ of GDP respectively on average during 1990-91.
The estimated impact of the shocks is close to the upper end of the magnitude
of the shocks sustained by countries undertaking adjustment programs in the
19808.1/
Table 2: IWACT OF ADERSE ECONOMIC SO11 La, 10WK91
(Millions of klins)
Estimate                        projected
1989                1990                  1991
Total     Due to    Total      Due to      Total    Due to
BCL closure         BCL closure          BCL closure
Impact on belance of paymnt.  -186     -70      -885       -235      -480      -255
(N of ¢DP)              (-4.3)    (-2.8)    (-11.6)    (-7.1)    (-12.4)    (-6.9)
Impact on fisca  revenues    10        -25      -170       -160      -146      -135
(X of GOP)              (-1.0)    (-0.8)     (-6.2)    (-4.8)     (-3.9)    (- 8.)
Impact on national incom   -180       -116      -a85       -195      -415      -200
(X of ODP)              (-t.8)    (-.7)    (-10.7)     (-840)    (-11.2)    (-6.5)
!/ Include: closure of ECL; decline in torus of trade; end los. of econoamic activity, other than
BCL closure, due to disturbances In North Soloon. Provinco. Estimates abovo cover oniy the
direct effects of thes development. The effect of DCL closure to estimated as the lose of the
contribution that the mine would have mde if It were in full production In thes years. The
loe frm terms of trade deterioration 1t calculated with tho average terms of trade for 198S-88
as the b_-.
Source: Date provided by P1 authorities and staff estimates.
1/ Report on Adjustment Lending II: Policies for the Recovery of Growth,
World Bank, draft report dated March 26, 1990, p.14.



-5-
9.       Without strong adjustment policies, shocks of this magnitude can
easily destobilize the economy. To some extent, the offecto of these shocks
would be offset by certain positive developments, particularly in the mineral
sector; namely, the build up of production at the Misima mine and the coming-
on-stream of the Porgera mine. However, large macroeconomic imbalances wvould
still arise without adjustment. For instance, it is estimated that in the
absence of any adjustment measures, the overall balance of payments deficit in
1990 would have amounted to K 345 million (10.52 of GDP) and the overall
fiscal deficit to R 135 million (42 of GDP), and these would have declined to
only about K 295 million (82 of GDP) and K 110 million (3S of GDP)
respectively in 1991 (Table 3).
TALE A: MhC   A WT RW IE, l089e1
_ allIon            X ot GOP
t989    r9   199 Us1   1989    9Ol1
Without Adjustment Psouram
OveraI ba Iance of paymnts p/  -75   -345  -297   -2.4  -10.6  8.1
Overal fI*scal balInco          -50   -185  -110   -1.0   -4.0  -3.0
With Ad_ijtm.nt Proram
Overall balance of payments    -58   -220  -12?   -1.7    6.7  -38.
Overall fiscal balance         -30      -7    0    -1.0   -0.2    0
Effect of AdJustment Prosra
On balance of payments          22    125  170    0.7    a8.   4.6
On fiscal balnce                20    128  110    0.6    8.8  3.0
!/ Before Inclusion of any adjustment-linked BOP flnancing, and
ex,luding valuation adjustment.
Sourc*: Datea provided by PUG authoritles and staff estimates.
10.      The Government was quick in recognizing that imbalances of this
magnitude would be unsustainable, and that strong stabilization measures were
needed to protect foreign reserves and prevent an excessive build-up of
external debt. It initiated adjustments in 1989, and announced a cautious
budget for 1990, incorporating new revenue measures and containment of
expenditures. These initial policy adjustments were based on the assumption
that the Bougainville mine would reopen in early 1990. However, when it
became clear that the mine would remain closed, the Government began
implementing a stronger set of stabilization measures that it had been
preparing in anticipation of this eventuality. The Government also recognized
that the prevailing financial difficulties underscored the need, as well as
provided an opportunity, to undertake more fundamental structural adjustments
to accelerate the development of the nonmining economy and diversify the
productive base, and announced that it was embarking on a multiyear program of
structural reform. To assist in the formulation and implementation of a



- 6 -
comprehensive stabilization and structural adjustment program, the Government
approached the IMF for a stand-by arrangement and the World Bank for a
structural adjustment loan. At the same time, arrangements were completed
with the ADB for an Agricultural Sector Program Loan to support sector-related
structural adjustments.
PAT IT - THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (1990-91)
A.  Prosrr. Obiectives
11.      The adjustment program, which the proposed loan will support, has the
following main objectives:
- to preserve external and internal financial stability in the face
of the large shortfall in export income;
- to undertake structural reforms aimed at promoting faster growth
of the nonmining economy; and
- to minimize the social costs of adjustment.
12.      In view of the financial implications of the shocks confronting the
economy, the need for strong stabilization measures is evident. But the same
developments h&vp also increased the urgency of effectively addressing some
longstanding structural impediments to the growth of the nonmining economy.
Structural adjustment in the program being implemented has two dimensions:
- to facilitate growt)-oriented adjustment in the short term; and
- to init4ate a major and systematic multiyear program of structural
reform and development aimed at achieving stronger anw broad-based
growth on a sustained basis.
Given the magnitude of the financial losses resulting from the present shocks,
a substantial reduction of domestic demand cannot be avoided to maintain
stabillty. By complementing demand management with structural adjustments to
protect priority puzblic sector activities and stimulate private sector
investment, the program aims at minimizing the short-term costs of adjustment
and ensuring an early economic recovery. The program also aims at laying the
foundations for strengthening and broadening structural reform and development
efforts over the medium term in order to accelerate growth of the nonmining
economy. Prospective development of the country's substantial mineral
resources could lead to a major improvement in its financial strength toward
the latter half of the 1990s (para. 35). However, mining being a largely
enclave and highly capital-intensive activity, and mineral resources being
depletable, the development of the nonmining economy will remain the key to
broad-based and sustained growth of incomes and employment. A medium-term
program to improve the structural policy framework, build up staff and
institutional capacities, and strengthen essential infrastructure will not
only contribute to stronger growth over the coming years, but will also later



permit a more effective utilization of the financial resources likely to be
generated by the mining sector in the further development of the nonmining
economy.2/
B. Main Elements of Adlustment Program
13.      Reflecting the aforesaid objectives, four major principles underlying
the formulation of the present adjustment program were to:
- achieve the necessary reduction of domestic demand for
stabilization purposes primarily by cutting public spending to
minimize the impact of adjustment on private sector growth;
- concentrate the reduction of public spending on consumption
expenditures, while protecting essential social services, in order
to maintain adequate funding of priority invescments;
- focus structural reform on two policy areas central to the
development of the nonmining economy, namely, public resource
management and the environment for private investment; and
- improve the competitiveness of the nonmining economy as the key
means to promoting private investment and economic
diversification.
Given this thrust, the main elements of the adjustment program can be
organized under three broad themes: (a) macroeconomic framework for
stabilization; (b) improvement of public resource management; and
(c) promotion of the nonmining private sector. These are described in detail,
in timetable format, in the policy matrix (Annex V) attached to the Letter of
Development Policy (Annex IV), and are summarized below.
(a) Macroeconomic Framework for Stabilization
14.      The main elements of the program to maintain internal and external
financial stability over the next two years include: (i) cuts in government
expenditure and additional revenue raising measures; (ii) slower growth of
domestic credit and increases in interest rates; and (iii) exchange rate
adjustment, coupled with wage moderation, which, in addition to complementing
fiscal and monetary policies in achieving the stabilization objective, will
contribute to improving the competitiveness of the economy. Consistent with
this policy stance, and in view of the already high debt service burden, the
Government will refrain from external commercial borrowing for budgetary
financing, and keep such borrowing by public enterprises within prudent
limits.
21 The discussion in the following sections concentrates on the policy
agenda for the period covered by the adjustment program (1990-91). For
a detailed discussion of the medium-term development policy agenda, see
Chapter II of the recently issued World Bank Economic Report on Papua
New Guinea, "Strategy for Adjustment and Growth", Report No. 8518-PNG,
April 30, 1990.



- 8a 
15.      Fiscal adjustment targeted under the program is substantial.  The
Government aims to achieve a virtual balance in the overall budget in 1990 and
1991, compared to deficits of 4? and 3Z of GDP that would have resulted in
these years respectively without any adjustment measures (Table 3). As part
of fiscal adjustment, total expenditures are to be reduced by K 74 million
from the already cautious budget announced for 1990 (about 6.8Z of the
original budget and 2.3? of GDP). Strong fiscal adjustment will allow credit
growth to support nonmining private sector activity to be maintained at an
adequate level while still reducing growth in total domestic credit
significantly. Total expansion of domestic credit under the program is to be
limited to about 4.2? in 1990 compared to 11.6? in 1989, but within this limit
credit to the private sector will be allowed to increase by 11.3? compared to
9.62 in 1989. With tight overall monetary conditions, average time deposit
interest rates are expected to rise by 1.5 percentage points in 1990,
following a similar increase in late 1989, thereby remaining substantially
high in real terms.
16.      On January 9, 1990, the Government took the major step of devaluing
the kina by 10X. It subsequently reached agreement with the Public Employees
Association (PEA) whereby the average annual wage increase in the public
sector will be limited to about 4.5? over a three-year period beginning
September 1989. The average increase in public sector wages in 1990 will be
vell below this limit -- between 3-3.52. With inflation projected to rise to
about 8.5? in 1990 because of the devaluation and tax measures, average real
wages will fall by 5-5.5Z during the year. Wage awards in the private sector
are likely to be in the same range as those in the public sector.
17.      Stabilization measures under the adjustment program aim at reducing
the balance of payments financing requirement to a level that can reasonably
be met from supportive concessional and official sources while allowing
foreign reserves to be maintained around four months of nommineral imports.
As shown in Table 3, these measures are expected to reduce the balance of
payments financing requirement in 1990 by about K 125 million (3.8Z of GDP).
Given the balance of payments projection for 1991, a reduction of about
K 170 million (4.6? of GDP) will need to be targeted for that year.
(b) Improvement of Public Resource Management
18.      The agenda for action under this heading comprises three key
structural aspects of public resource management in PNG, namelys strengthening
public resource mobilization; improving public expenditure management; and
enhanci.:g public institutional capacities.
19.      Public Resource Mobilization.  The adjustment program aims at
strengthening public resource mobilization through measures to: (i) broaden
the tax base; (ii) reform natural resource taxation; (iii) strengthen tax
collection; and (iv) improve cost recovery. With the 1990 budget, the
Government took some tax measures that included the introduction of new
witbholding taxes to broaden the coverage of income taxation. Additional
measures will be taken with the 1991 budget that will raise revenues
consistently with the target of maintaining a balanced budgetary position but



- 9 .
w$il also aim at further broadening the tax base and improving its structure.
In direct taxation, the priority is to increase the effectiveness of the
income tax, currently heavily reliant on a narrow base of wages and salaries,
in reaching income from business activities, e.g., through expanding
withholding taxes and introducing presumptive taxation. In indirect taxation,
te priority is to shift toward a broad-based consumption tax, e.g., by
introducing a general excise tax and realigning domestic and international
trade taxation. In the area of astural (forestry and mineral) resource
taxation, the objective is to reform the tax regimes, in the light of recent
sector studies, to secure adequate return to the Government and to ensure
sustainable exploitation of these resources. Measures to improve tax
collection will focus on effective implementation of the withholding taxes
introduced with the 1990 budget and the recovery of assessed income tax
arrears. In the area of cost recovery, priorities includes making timely
adjustments in the prices of services provided by major public utilities in
the light of cost developments; improving cost recovery in transport; and
initiating measures to reduce the high levels of subsidies in higher
education.
20.      Public Expenditure ManaRement.  The key elements of adjustment in
this aLea include: (i) restructuring public expenditures by trimming the large
administrative spending, especially the salary and wage bill; (ii) improving
the funding and management of operations and maintenance (O&M) expenditures in
key sectors; and (iii) directing resources available for public investment to
priority projects and programs. To identify expenditure cuts under the
program, a comprehensive review of expenditures In the original 1990 budget
was undertaken, with the final allocation of cuts determined by a Ministerial
Committee headed by the Prime Minister. Within the recurrent budget,
proportionally the largest cuts (about 20X) have been made in general
administrative expenditure. The allocations for the operation of key public
economic and social services and maintenance of infrastructure have been
protected, and in some cases increased. While the allocation for public
investment in the national budget has been reduced by about R 35 million from
the original 1990 estimate, it is still 2? higher in real terms than the
outcome in 1989, compared to a 14? reduction in real terms in all other
expenditures on goods and services. Cuts made in the public investment
program (PIP) mainly reflect expected shortfalls from the ambitious targets
originally set for the year, and affect primarily project starts. Also, some
lower priority projects have been rephased. The revised PIP for 1990, as a
result, is more realistic in its overall size, and the necessary adjustments
have been made with a minimal effect on priority or ongoing projects. To
ensure that the planned expenditure cuts and reallocations are realized,
expenditure control and monitoring mechanisms are being strengthened.
21.      In order to reduce administrative overheads and release greater
resources fer nonwage O&M inputs and investment, strict control is to be
exercised over employee salaries. Only a marginal increase in the total
salary and wage bill will be allowed during the program period, implying a
substantial reduction in real terms (about 82 in 1990). This will be achieved
bys the wage agreement reached with the PEA (para. 16); the application of a
freeze on most new hirings; and retrenchment of staff identified as surplus.
Through retrenchment, and the freeze coupled with natural attrition, a net



- 10 -
reduction of regular public service of about 4.7S (about 2,200 staff) is
targeted for 1990. At the same time as proceeding with these measures, the
Government is preparing a major medium-term program of rationalizing the
public service that will be put into implementation by early 1991. Under this
program, based on & review of departmental functions and structures, some
departments will be abolished, e.g., the Department of Administrative
Services, and some others will be restructured to improve their efficiency and
eliminate overlapping responsibilities. Of the staff determined to be
surplus, some will redeployed and others retrenched. Annual staff
redeployment/retrenchment targets will be established under tLe program.
22.      To improve the institutional basis for recurrent expenditure
management, a medium-term expenditure plan, to be updated annually with the
budget, will be introduced, which will extend medium-term expenditure planning
(at present limited to the PIP) to recurrent expenditures. Moreover, O&M
strategies and expenditure guidelines are to be prepared for four key sectors:
agriculture, transport, education and health.
23.      To reduce the burden on budgetary resources and induce producers to
become competitive at world prices, the recently initiated reform of the
agricultural commodity stabilization funds will continue. A new scheme for
cocoa was introduced in January 1990 whereby price support will be phased out
by the end of 1992. Proposals for the rationalization of other commodity
funds are being developed. Under the ADB Program Loan, the Government has
undertaken to revise commodity price formulas and implement other reform
measures to make commodity funds fully self-financing over a period. During
this reform process, the Government will refrain from using budgetary
resources to support these funds, and the assistance to be provided through
the banking system will be subject to limits.
24.      Institutional Reform and Capacity Building.  Enhancing staff and
institutional capacities for the planning and implementation of development
activities is necessarily a long-term endeavor, especially in PNG given the
present weak institutional and human resource base. Some improvements,
however, can be made with a payoff in the short term. Moreover, for some of
the measures that take longer to implement and bear fruit, the necessary
foundations can be laid now. Both categories of measures are included in the
adjustment program. Measures in the first category includes (i) completing
the installation of a new project cycle system that has been prepared to
streamline the preparation and implementation of projects in the PIP and
establish clear departmental responsibilities during the project cycle;
(ii) establishing an effective mechanism for monitoring project preparation
and implementation; (iii) simplifying procurement procedures;
(iv) streamlining approval of loan agreements between the Government and
external donors; and (v) revising recruitment procedures to expedite the
appointment of staff, including consultants, with needed skills. Measures in
the second category include: (i) beginning implementation of some key
components of the recently formulated National Training Policy (NTP) aimed at
strengthening in-service training, inclu4ing three-year in-service training
programs for individual departments, strengthening and reorientation of
training programs at the Administrative College (Adcol), and enhancement of
the capacity of the Department of Personnel Management to oversee and



- 11 -
coordinate NTP implementation; (ii) completing preparation and commencing
implementation of the Higher Education Plan (REP) aimed at improving the
efficiency and relevance of higher-level pre-service training; and
(iii) initiating the establishment of a new administrative structure for
forestry recommended by the recent Bank-led Tropical Forestry Action Plan
(TFAP) review to improve control over logging operations and promote
conservation.
(c) Promotion of Nommining Private Sector
25.      The private sector must play a stronger role in the effort to achieve
faster growth of the nonmining economy. As noted above (para. 4), private
nonmineral investment fell in real terms for most of the 19809. Reversing
this trend is vital to an improved growth performance in the future. Major
policies aimed at this objective under the adjustment program are discussed
below.
26.      Wage and Exchange Rate Policies. A central element of the strategy
to promote the growth of the nonmining private sector will be to improve the
international competitiveness of nonmineral productive activities through a
coordinated use of wage and exchange rate policies. This will includes
restraining increases in nominal wages to achieve a significant reduction of
real wages (which are currently high relative to productivity and wages in
competing countries and, hence, constitute a major constraint to the growth of
nonmineral investment); reducing wage indexation to introduce greater
flexibility in wage determination; and continuing the recent move toward a
more responsive exchange rate policy. Some progress has recently been made in
reducing rigidities in the determination of wages. The latest award of the
Minimum Wages Board, covering 1990-92 and fully indexing wages for the first
six percentage point increase in the CPI, will be applied strictly to minimum
wages unlike in the past when the award was applied practically across the
board. Under the present arrangement, wages above the minimum level will be
determined through negotiations between employers and employees. As already
noted, the Government has reached agreement with public employees which will
result in an average downward adjustment of real wages in the public sector of
5-5.5X in 1990, with a similar outcome expected in the private sector. The
Government recognizes that the wage adjustment achieved in 1990, with higher-
level wages rising by proportionally less than lower-level wages, involves a
compression of wage differentials and that this pattern of wage adjustment
cannot continue for long without creating disincentives for the acquisition of
higher-levei skills. Accordingly, it will strengthen its efforts to reduce
the extent of minimum wage indexation in the economy.
27.      The recent wage agreements have weakened the previously close link
between price increases and wages. This will allow greater scope for the use
of exchange rate policy to improve the international competitiveness of the
economy. The 102 devaluation announced in January 1990 is projected to yield
a depreciation in real effective terms over the year of 7-82. The Government
will keep the exchange rate under active review during the program period, and
the stance of exchange rate policy will be reassessed during the second-
tranche review, in consultation with the D14.



- 12 -
28.      Reform of Investment Regulation.  PNG maintains an investment policy
regime that is relatively free of controls over domestic private investment.
However, the entry and operation of foreign private investment have been
tightly controlled. The institutional and regulatory framework governing the
approval of foreign investment, centered on the National Investment
Development Authority (NIDA), is cumbersome and has been a major deterrent to
the flow of such investment into the economy, except for large-scale mineral
projects. The Government intends to implement a drastic reform of this
framework during the current year. Detailed proposals to this end have been
drawn up and are expected to be approved by the Cabinet shortly. These will
includes a major pruning of NIDA's regulatory functions, including freeing
foreign investment in a number of activities from approval requirements;
streamlining of procedures for the approval of investment applications; and
liberalization of the criteria for approval. Moreover, to actively promote
foreign investment, an Industry Promotion Board is proposed to be established
to replace the existing institutional arrangements for promotion which have
proven to be ineffective. With these reforms. the focus of policy will shift
from regulation and control to promotion. To complement these reforms,
restrictions on the employment and entry of noncitizens will be eased.
29.      Privatization.  Steps are being taken to expedite the implementation
of the Government's plans to privatize most of its commercial investments,
both to encourage private sector development and to free up public resources
for alternative uses. Barring the large public utilities and shareholdings in
mineral enterprises, the Government's commercial investment portfolio is not
very large, but returns on it have been poor. A comprehensive list of such
investments has been drawn up and some have been identified for privatization
and others for liquidation. The Government would like to divest its holdings
in several enterprises, particularly in agriculture and forestry, during
1990-91. The privatization program will soon be submitted to the Cabinet for
approval and its implementation will begin before the end of the year.   To
assist with the implementation of the program, services of a merchant bank or
similar agency are to be obtained. As a complementary initiative, the Cabinet
has recently approved the privatizationlcoonercialization during 1990-91 of
several services currently performed by government departments, e.g., the
Government Printing Office. The purpose is to reduce public sector
involvement in services that can be better performed by the private sector and
to make the provision of some public services self-financing, by allowing them
to be run along the lines of commercial statutory authorities, and thereby
reduce the burden on the budget. The implementation of this program is under
way-
30.      Financial Sector Development.  The financial sector is not very well
developed in PNG, and the most urgent issue that needs to be tackled is to put
the rural credit system on a sounder footing. Under the ADB Program Loan
(para. 10), a study is to be undertaken in 1990 which will address issues
relating to rural credit. The recommendations of the study will form the
basis for actions that the Government will take for the development and reform
of the system.



- 13 -
31.      Trade Policy Reform.  PNG's foreign trade regime is relatively
liberal. However, several goods are subject to quantitative import
restrictions. The Government will initiate a phased program of replacing
these with tariffs. The tariff structure has been simplified in recent years,
but there remains room for further improvement to minimize giving unwanted
protection to certain domestic activities and avoid distortions against
exports. Some specific proposals for tariff reform are being considered for
implementation with the 1991 budget in conjunction with the broader reform of
the indirect tax system mentioned earlier (para. 19), with a view to improving
the alignment between domestic and trade taxes.
32.      The Government has decided against the imposition of a ban on log
exports which had been under consideration. Instead, domestic processing of
forest resources will be encouraged through appropriate tax incentives and
policies to improve its efficiency, quality and competitiveness. Feasibility
studies are being initiated to determine the viability of some processing
activities, e.g.. wood-chipping and pulp-milling, and help identify a package
of supportive measures.
C. Economic and Pinancial Outlook
33.      Outlook for Program Period.  Provided the adjustment program is
firmly implemented, the prospects are good for PNG to overcome its immediate
financial difficulties and also to achieve an early recovery of growth. Key
economic indicators for the program period are given in Table 4. The
stabilization package of fiscal and monetary restraint, exchange rate
Table 4: ECONUIC AND FVVANCIAL WILOOK SIAING PUM MM0
AND IEDM MM, Iss-o9
~-~ ~- ~ - Estimato _ Proi cted
1. Drm Perlo      NW] um Term
1989    mv 0    m 191  L992-95  l n8-
Real growth rates (S v.O.)
Cros do mtic product                  1.4      0.8   5.7      0.8      2.8
Mineral                             -4.6    -2.6  29.2    19.2    -3.0
Nontaineral                         2.1      0.8   2.0      8.2      4.6
Gross fixed investment               15.4    13.8  24.8    -9.7        4.4
None)neral                           1.5     2.3   4.6      4.8      6.5
Public                             1.3     2.8   7.5       6.3     8.0
Prtvats                            1.0     2.0   2.5       3.7     6.6
Exporta                               8.8   -10.4  17.0    18.4    -0.4
Nonminer l                          28.5    -6.0   7.5      5.7      0.1
Consumption                           1.5    -2.1   0.4       2.7      6.0
Selected Financial Indietore
Inflation (CPI U p...)               4.5      8.6   7.0      5.6      6.0
Overall fiscal balance/GDP (I)       -1.0    -0.2      0        0      1.0
Current account balsnce/GDP (5)     -11.1   -10.8  -26.9    -6.7        0
NonaineraI                         -17.7   -18.9  -18.3   -14.6   -15.5
Overall 00P (USS miliIon) a           -60      -45     2      106      281
Gross offiecia reserves CUSI millIon) lb   395  850   352     772   1,89?
Months of nonmineral lmports        4.3      3.9   8.9      6.0      9.4
Debt service ratio () lb             24.1    34.4   283.     18.8    11.6
f  Including DI  purchesr and repurchase.
For last yer of ultly ar poriode.
liurce: Date provided by PRO *uthorities and staff projoetions



- 14 -
adjustment and wage moderation should allow macroeconomic imbalances that
could develop in this situation to be effectively contained. Indeed, with
respect to the budget, the target is to eliminate the deficit altogether. The
balance of payments deficit will be reduced to a level that can be financed
from official support and is consistent with the economy's capacity to carry
additional debt, while maintaining foreign reserves at around four months of
nonmineral imports that is considered necessary to ensure maintenance of
private sector confidence. It is estimated that this will involve cutting the
balance of payments deficit by 3.82 and 4.62 of GDP in 1990 and 1991
respectively from what it would have been without any adjustment measures
(para. 17). The current account deficit as a proportion of GDP will still
rise appreciably during this period. However, much of this increase will be
due to substantially increased mineral sector imports associated with the
development of new projects funded predominantly with private capital inflows.
The current account deficit of the nonmining economy will be allowed to
increase in 1990 by only 1? of GDP, compared to a drop in nonmineral export
earnings of roughly twice as much, and is projected to be reduced in 1991 as a
proportion of GDP by about 1.5Z below its 1989 level. The tight monetary
policy stance under the adjustment program should keep inflationary pressures
in check despite the effects of the devaluation. The external debt service
ratio is expected to rise sharply in 1990 to over 34?, partly because of a
bunching of payments on some past public and mineral sector debt and partly
reflecting the fall in export earnings, but is projected to drop back to about
28? in 1991.
34.      Despite the magnitude of adjustment, economic growth should rebound
in 1991. After a dip in 1990, growth in the nonmining economy is expected to
recover to about 2? in 1991, close to its recent trend growth rate. Overall
GDP growth could rise to just under 6? in 1991 as a result of the expected
increase in production and investment in the mining sector, mainly due to the
start of gold production at Porgera and the commencement of construction work
at the Lihir gold mine and the Iagifu oil field.
35.      Medium-Term Outlook.  Despite the recent setbacks, PNG's medium-term
prospects remain favorable. Staff's medium-term projections are summarized in
Table 4.3/   If the current prospects for development in the mining sector are
realized (which include the coming into production of four medium- to large-
size gold mines and an oil field over the next four years), and with
successful adjustment in the short term, the economy's financial position will
strengthen substantially toward the mid-1990s. This will be reflected both in
a much stronger balance of payments/reserve position and, if supported by a
continued prudent approach to external borrowing, in a much improved debt
service position. An assumption underlying the projections in Table 4 is that
the Bougainville mine will return to full production in 1992. However, even
if the mine remains closed, the external financial position is still expected
to improve appreciably over the medium term as the new mineral projects come
on stream (the implications of this scenario are more fully discussed in
Section F below).
3/ For a detailed discussion of staff's medium-term projections, and the
implications of some alternative scenarios, see op. cit., Chapter III.



- 1S -
36.      Provided the efforts toward structural reform and development are
sustained, and the planned increases in investment are realized, the economy's
growth performance, and employment generation, should also improve
significantly over the medium term. On this basis, growth in the nonmining
economy is projected to rise to 3.2Z p.a. during 1992-95 and to accelerate
further to an average of 4.5Z p.a. in the latter half of the decade. Because
of the expected rapid growth in the mining sector in the early- to mid-1990s,
overall GDP growth during 1992-95 could rise to close to 72 p.a. However,
with all of the currently planned mineral projects expected to have been
developed and have reached full capacity by the end of this period, the mining
sector growth rate would fall sharply thereafter (unless new projects are
identified and developed). This could cause a fall in the overall GDP growth
rate to about 22 p.a. early in the latter half of the 19909, before it
recovers, supported by the projected acceleration of growth in the nonmining
economy, to over 3Z p.a. by the end of the decade. This underscores the
importance of developing the potential of the nonmining sectors as the basis
for sustained growth in the long run.
37.      While the aforesaid projections point to a significant improvement in
the economy's growth performance and financial position over the medium term,
these prospects are subject to some important uncertainties and downside risks
that need to be fully kept in view, as discussed in Section P.
D. Social Impact of Adjustment
38.      The shocks affecting the economy in 1990-91 will entail a large loss
of national income (Table 2). The adjustment program has been designed to
help stabilize the economy in the face of these shocks and facilitate an early
economic recovery. Moreover, structural adjustment measures included in the
program should have an overall beneficial effect on the distribution of
income, as they will: benefit exporters, the majority of whom are rural
smallholders; promote growth of employment through wage policy reform; spread
the burden of adjustment to national income losses broadly across the economy,
including employees in the formal sector who had previously been shielded from
such adjustment by full wage indexation; and lay the basis for a stronger
public investment program directed toward improving and expanding public
infrastructure and social services. Nevertheless, the measures of fiscal and
monetary restraint, as well as the wage and exchange rate adjustments, will
have a short-term adverse effect on incomes. This effect will fall more
heavily on urban wage and salary earners.
39.      In order to alleviate these short-term costs of adjustment, the
Government is taking several steps. First, in allocating expenditure cuts,
special attention has been given to protecting basic services and programs
aimed at disadvantaged groups and poorer areas. Second, the Government will
facilitate the reemployment in the private sector of those affected by public
service reform through retraining and improved placement mechanisms, and will
seek Bank support for these activities under the proposed Public Sector
Training Project. Third, the Government will undertake a special program of
interventions aimed specifically at offsetting the social costs of adjustment,



- 16 -
which will include support for housing, health facilities and iAedical
supplies, small industry development, and rehabilitation and maintenance
projects for roads and water supply. These projects, to be implemented on an
accelerated basis, will have a strong poverty focus, with a high social and
economic rate of return, and will utilize labor-intensive methods to the
extent possible to have the maximum effect on employment. A special Bank-led
mission visited PNG in March 1990 to help in the preparation of this program.
Projects involving approximately K 50 million in expenditure in 1990 and 1991
have been identified under the program. This program will be presented to the
donor community at the May 1990 Consultative Group Meeting for support on an
urgent basis.
. Financing of Adiustment
40.      PNG's external financing requirements are expected to be sharply
higher over the next few years. The principal reason for this is the ongoing
and planned development of some major mineral projects, which will be financed
primarily from private equity and loan capital inflows. Part of the increase
in the requirements is due to the significant official balance of payments
financing that will be needed to support the Government's adjustment program.
Official project-related financing will also need to increase to support the
expansion of public investment within the framework of the PIP, but the
increase will be at a relatively moderate pace determined by the rate of
growth of the requisite institutional capacities. Total external financing
requirements will start to fall toward the mid-1990s as the new mineral
projects are completed and begin to generate export earnings. The need for
official balance of payments financing will decline with successful adjustment
and ir.crease in mineral exports from recently or about to be completed
projects. It could disappear altogether in 1992 if the Bougainville mine
returns to full production early in that year.
41.      The total external financing requirement during the program period
(1990-91) is estimated at about US$2.8 billion, US$1.25 billion in 1990 and
US$1.55 billion in 1991 (Table 5). Of this total, about US$1.2 billion
(roughly 40?), or US$600 million p.a., will need to be met from official
sources. This will consist of four types of assistance. First, to ensure
adequate funding of the government recurrent budget (and also to support the
balance of payments), Australian budgetary grants are being maintained at
their present level in nominal terms, which will amount to roughly
US$215 million p.a. Second, technical assistance requirements to support
institution-building and particularly the capacities for project preparation
and implementation are estimated at about US$25 million p.a. Third, to
finance planned investments under the PIP, including the special projects to
alleviate the social costs of adjustment, disbursements of project-related
assistance (loans and grants) of about US$180 million p.a. will be needed.
Fourth, the requirement for special balance of payments financing in support
of the adjustment program is fstimated at about US$190 million in 1990 and
US$135 million in 1991. It is envisaged that this financing will be obtained
wholly from official sources as the Government prudently intends to refrain
from external commercial borrowing for general-purpose financing.



- 17 -
Table St ZEXiRNAL PIRANC W   UM QUIEETS AND SOURCES DURING
PROGRAM PEUOD, 1990-91
(USS million)
Estimate          Proiected
1985-89       1990        1991
(ave.)
Requirements                                    801        1.255       1,566
Current account deficit Ia                    582          871       1,277
of which interest                           135          152         200
Amortization                                  229          429         287
Reserve Increape                              -10          -45           2
Financing                                       801        1,255       1,566
Grants                                        235          278         283
Budgetary grants                            215          213         213
Technical assistance                         14           25          25
Project-related grants                        6           40          45
HLT project loans (public and                 130          240         266
guaranteed)
Official sources                             84          123         156
Commercial sources                           46          117         110
Official balance of payments support            0          190         135
MLT loans (nonguaranteed)                     235          296         475
Direct foreign investment (equity)            01           251         406
a Excluding official transfers.
Sources Data provided by PNG authorities and staff estimates.
Disbursements from the ADB Program Loan already in effect, the recently
approved INF stand-by arrangement and CCFF purchase, and the proposed Bank
loan are expected to provide about US$150 million of this financing in 1990
and US$70 million in 1991. The EEC and bilateral sources including Australia
and Japan are expected to provide the remainder (see Annex I, p. 3, for
further details).
F. Program Risks and Uncertainties in Outlook
42.      The implementation of the adjustment program and the economic and
financial outlook discussed above (Section C) are subject to three main risks:
policy slippage due either to political opposition to some of the envisaged
adjustments or to inadequate implementation capacity within the Government;
the uncertain outlook for the Bougainville mine; and delays in the development
of the new mineral projects and/or shortfalls in their financial contribution
to the economy. (As the Government is moving promptly and firmly with the
adjustment effort, and with the financing likely to be catalyzed by the
approval of the proposed loan, the risk of shortfalls in the availability of
required additional financing is relatively low.)



- 18 -
43.      The structural adjustment effort faces the risk of opposition from
groups that will bear part of the transitional costs of adjustment, e.g..
civil servants facing retrenchment/redeployment, departments facing
expenditure cuts or reorganization, workers facing wage restraint, etc. This
risk, however, is mitigated by several factorss some difficult policy actions
have already been taken, e.g., the devaluation, the public wage agreement, and
cabinet approval of a substantial package of expenditure cuts and a major
civil service rationalization program; the Government has demonstrated strong
camuitment to adjustment by taking these, and other, actions; and the
Government, with the assistance of donors, will be implementing a set of
measures aimed specifically at alleviating the transitional costs of
adjustment (Section D). Weak institutional capacities could also constrain
the pace of adjustment. This is well recognized by the Government and there
are a number of initiatives in hand, several of which are part of the program
to be supported by the proposed loan, e.g., accelerated implementation of the
National Training Policy (para. 24). Adequate and well-focused technical
assistance will play an imporcant role in expediting the build-up of the
requisite capacities. A major program of assistance in this regard is the
ongoing Bank-executed and UNDP-funded project for Strengthening National and
Provincial Economic Management (SNAPEM). The Bank will also be supporting
efforts in this area through the recently appraised Public Sector Training
Project.
44.      As noted above, the report's projections assume that the Bougainville
mine will remain closed throughout the program period (1990-91) but will
reopen in early 1992. In the present situation, and taking into account the
time needed for logistical reasons to bring the mine back to production, it is
unlikely that the mine can reopen sooner than that.  I; is, however, quite
possible that the mine remains closed for a longer period. Key external
financial implications of this scenario are set out in Annex I (p. 4), where
it is assumed for purposes of analysis that the mine is closed permanently.
The major policy implication of this scenario is that the stabilization
program will need to be continued for about two more years beyond 1990-91, and
so will the provision of supportive balance of payments financing, though on a
diminishing scale. By 1994, increasing export earnings from the new mineral
projects should offset the shortfall resulting from the continued closure of
the Bougainville mine. Beyond that, the external financial position should
begin to improve appreciably as earnings from the new projects rise further,
even if the mine remained closed. The improvement would not be as large as in
the projections assuming a reopening of the Bougainville mine in 1992, because
of the loss of income from this highly profitable mine, but would still be
sizable. PNG's creditworthiness remains strong in this scenario.
45.      It is also possible that some of the new mineral projects get
delayed, in which case the improvement in the external financial position will
be further postponed. Besides the timing of development, there are cost,
price and other uncertainties that bear on the expected financial contribution
of the new projects. In view of these uncertainties, an element of caution
has already been built into the staff's projections, but further downside
risks remain possible. In one pnssible scenario, the aforesaid downside risks
in mineral sector prospects -- continued closure of the Bougainville mine,
delays in the development of the new projects and shortfalls in their



- 19 -
financial performance -- can all occur at the same time. In that case, any
significant improvement in the external financial position would be postponed
well into the second half of the 19909. In the meantime, to maintain
fInancial stability and keep the external debt service burden manageable, it
would be necessary to continue to implement tight macroeconomic policies.
Growth in the economy would be appreciably slower than that projected above
(para. 36). While this may be a somewhat extreme scenario, it does serve to
underline the uncertainties impinging on the economy's medium-term prospects.
An implication of the above discussion is that even if the country's immediate
financial difficulties are overcome through successful short-term
stabilization and the reopening of the Bougainville mine, there would still be
the need -- because of uncertainties relating to the new projects -_ to
maintain a cautious stance in macroeconomic management. The various
uncertainties associated with mineral development prospects reinforce the case
for a strong, multiyear prograsL of structural adjustment to develop the
nonmining economy.
PART III - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Loan MistorY
46.      The preparation of the proposed loan commenced in November 1989 when
the Government requested support from the Bank for its stabilization and
structural adjustment program in response to the adverse shocks confronting
the economy. Initial preparatory work was carried out during an economic
mission to PNG that month. The loan was appraised in February 1990. The
close policy dialogue with the Government over the past three years based on
in-depth annual economic reports, and supporting sector work, provided a good
basis for agreement on the structural reform agenda. Negotiations were held
during April 24-27, 1990.  The PNG delegation was led by Mr. Korea Vele,
Secretary for Finance and Planning. Alongside the preparation of the loan,
the Bank has been in close contact with other major donors, within the
framework of the now well-established Consultative Group for Papua New Guinea,
in order to catalyze necessary additional external financing in support of the
adjustment program.
B. Loan Administration
47.      Use of Loan Proceeds.  The loan will finance 1002 of the direct
foreign costs of goods, subject to a negative list, and will be available for
disbursement in two equal tranches of US$25 million. The first tranche will
be available upon loan effectiveness. The second tranche will be available
for disbursement upon completion of a satisfactory review of overall
implementation of the program and the implementation of specific actions
indicated in paragraph 54. The list of ineligible imports will be standard.
i.e., goods intended for military or para-military purposes, luxury
consumption, goods financed from other official multilateral or bilateral
sources, and uranium. Expenditures for goods procured under contracts less



- 20 -
than US$20,000 equivalent will not be eligible for financing under the loan.
Considering the magnitude of the shocks experienced, the consequent need for
early balance of payments support and the significant actions already taken by
the Government in implementing the adjustment pro6ram, it is proposed to
provide for retroactive financing of eligible items procured in accordan-e
with procedures applicable under the loan within four months prior to the
signing of the loan agreement. but after March 1, 1990, up to a maximum amount
of US$10 million.
48.      Procurement.  Both private and public sector imports will be eligible
for financing. All individual contracts estimated to cost US$2 million or
more will be procured through International Competitive Bidding procedures in
accordance with Bank/IDA Guidelines with standard amendments applicable to SAL
operations. Public secttr procurement for contracts under US$2 million each
will be carried out following the standard procurement procedures of the
purchasing institution, provided these will have been examined and found
acceptable to the Bank. Private sector purchases valued below US$2 million
will follow established commercial practice. Subject to the prior approval of
the Bank, commonly traded comodities may be procured through organized
international commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
In accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
49.      Administration.  The Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG) will have
primary responsibility for the administration of the proposed loan on behalf
of the Government and will, inter alia, administer the preparation and
submission of withdrawal requests. Disbursements for contracts of US$200,000
and above will be fully documented following standard Bank procedures employed
in adjustment lending. Disbursements against contracts less than US$200,000
but more than US$20,000 will be made on the basis of itemized statements of
expenditures (SOE's) in accordance with standard Bank practices. The
supporting documentation for the SOE's w'll be centrally retained by the BPNG
and made available for review to Bank supervision missions. All of the
proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be disbursed within 18 months of
the date of loan effectiveness. The Closing Date for the loan is set for June
30, 1992.
50.      Accounts, Audits and Reporting.  The BPNG will establish the
requisite accounts and, in accordance with sound accounting practices,
maintain records of all transactions under the loan. It will be responsible
for reconciling these records from time to time, including the collection and
coordination of all supporting documentation.
51.      Within six months of the end of each fiscal year, the Government will
submit an audit report carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank that will provide a full assessment of the accounts and the withdrawals
under the loan. The auditor's report will contain a separate opinion as to
whether the funds disbursed under SOE's, together with procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied on to support the
related withdrawals.



- 21 -
C. Tranch. Release Conditions
52.      The Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV) and the Policy Matrix
(Annex V) describe in detail the measures that have been or will be taken
under the adjustment program to be supported by the proposed loan. Specific
actions taken as conditions for negotiations included:
(i)    revision of 1990 budget, involving expenditure reduction and
new revenue raising measures, to achieve a virtual balance in
the overall budgetary position;
(ii) agreement to refrain from external commercial borrowing for
budgetary financing in 1990 and to limit such borrowing by
public commercial enterprises excluding the Mineral Resources
Development Corporation (MRDC) during the year to
US$75 million;
(iii)  agreement on the size and composition of the revised 1990
recurrent budget, including reducing the salary and wage bill
to K 330 million and raising the allocation for maintenance
works;
(iv)   reduction of the public investment program (PIP) by about
K 35 million as part of the revision of 1990 budget and
agreement on the composition of the revised PIP;
(v)    devaluation of the kina by 102; and
(vi)   agreement with public sector trade unions to limit the average
annual increase in nominal wages to about 4.5Z during 1990-91
and Government advice to the private sector to exercise
similar wage restraint.
53.      Loan effectiveness and release of the first tranche will be
conditional upon the completion of the following additional actions in a
manner satisfactory to the Bankt
(i)    submission to Parliament of draft legislation to improve
procurement procedures so as to expedite the award of project
contracts;
(ii)   submission to Parliament of draft legislation designed to
expedite the approval process relating to loan agreements
between the Government and external donors;
(iii)  provision to the Bank of a report showing satisfactory
progress on the establishment of the new project cycle system
for public investments; and
(iv)   establishment of an Interdepartmental Working Group on
Structural Adjustment Implementation to facilitate and monitor
the implementation of the program to be supported by the
proposed loan.



- 22 -
54.      A second tranche reviei vill take place within six months of the
release of the first tranche. The release of the second tranche will depend
on satisfactory overall progress on program implementation and the
bmplementation of the following specific actions in a manner satisfactory to
the Banks
(i)    adoption of a budget for 1991 aimed at maintenance of a
balanced overall budgetary positiont
(ii)   implementation of tax measures consistent with the overall
1991 budgetary target and the proposals for restructuring the
tax system as agreed with the Bank;
(iii) continuation of policy to refrain from external commercial
borrowing for budgetary financing in 1991 and agreement to
limit such borrowing by public commercial enterprises
excluding the MRDC to US$25 million during the year;
(iv)   agreement on the size and composition of the 1991 recurrent
budget, including limiting the salary and wage bill to
K 335 million and raising the allocation for maintenance works
to at least K 50 million;
(v)    commencement of the implementation of the medium-term public
service restructuring program;
(vi)   increasing the PIP in the 1991 budget by about 7Z in real
terms over the PIP in the revised 1990 budget, and agreement
on its composition;
(vii) completion of the establishment of the new project cycle
system;
(viii) completion of all measures necessary to ensure satisfactory
implementation of the legislation referred to in para. 53 (i)
and (ii) above;
(ix)   implementation of an exchange rate policy acceptable to the
Bank;
(t)    implementation of agreed wage policy in 1990 and continuation
of agreed wage policy in 1991;
(xi) implementation of measures for the reform of the institutional
and regulatory framework governing foreign investments; and
(xii)  implementation of a program for the privatization or
liquidation of identified public investments and the
privatization or commercialization of identified public
services.



- 23 -
D. Progr  !m lemetation and Mobntoring
55.      The Bank will closely monitor progress in the implementation of the
adjustment program. First, the monitoring of the program will be facilitated
by the establishment of a counterpart group within the Government. An
Interdepartmental Working Group on Structural Adjustment Implementation,
comprising representatives of relevant agencies, will be established to
coordinate the implementation of the program and monitor its progress. The
composition and detailed functions of the Working Group will be set out in
terms of reference which will be finalized following review by the Bank. The
Group will report to the Resource Management Committee (RMC), a high-level
policymaking body comp.ising the secretaries of key central departments. It
will prepare quarterly progress reports on program implementation for approval
by the RMC. Copies of these reports will be provided to the relevant agencies
and the Bank. These reports will provide regular updates on key macroeconomic
indicators and budgetary developments and indicate progress on program actions
in accordance with the timetable for their implementation as set out in the
Policy Matrix (Annex V). Second, through frequent consultations with the
Government, the staff will closely supervise the implementation of the
program. This will be especially important in the preparatory stages of the
1991 budget through which several of the follow-up adjustment measures will be
implemented. Third, close coordination will be maintained with the IMF in
monitoring macroeconomic policies (para. 64).
PART IV - MMN1 GROUP STRATUGY IN PRG
56.      The next three years will be a critical period in PNG's development.
In addition to tackling the inmediate financial difficulties, PNG must also
lay the foundations for accelerated growth by undertaking structural reforms,
strengthening the investment effort and addressing the fundamental constraints
of human skills and institutional capacities. The Bank is well placed to
assist the Government in this endeavor as a result of recent efforts to
clarify and strengthen the Bank's role in PNG. First, a strong program of
economic and sector work has been built up covering all major sectors.
Second, the Bank's position as Chairman of the Consultative Group has enhanced
its role in policy dialogue and in mobilizing support from the donor
community. Third, there is a clearer understanding of lending priorities.
Over the past two years, the Government has undertaken a systematic review of
its development priorities and of its external financing requirements. Based
on this review, the Government has asked the Bank to give particular attention
to lending in education and training, institutional development, forestry and
telecommunications. With a clear accord on lending priorities, the Bank has
been able to prepare a well-focused lending program and proceed speedily with
a Land Mobilization Project (FY89) and a Teleconmmunications Project (FY90).
Looking ahead, the Bank's country assistance strategy is to support the
Government's efforts in the following areas:
(i)   stabilization and structural adjustment to overcome the
disruptions caused by the recent shocks;
(ii)  accelerating growth in the nonmining economy, especially
through promoting private sector development;
(iii) strengthening human resource development through improved
access to and better quality of basic services;



- 24 -
iv)   ensuring sustainable use of natural resources, particularly
forests; and
v)    building up institutional capacities and implementing
administrative reforms required to facilitate and sustain
efforts to achieve the preceding objectives.
57.      Sunport for Stabilization and Structural Adjustment.  The main
instrument for supporting the Government's stabilization and structural
adjustment program is the proposed structural adjustment loan (SAL). But
given that successful implementation of the adjustment program is a central
element of the Bankfs assistance strategy, much of the Bank's economic and
sector work program and other lending operations over the next two years will
also be directed toward this end. A particularly important complementary
operation to the SAL is a special program of interventions that has been drawn
up by the Government with assistance from a multidonor Bank-led mission (para.
39). This program is designed to alleviate the adverse effects of the recent
events on incomes and employment and offset the social costs of adjustment.
The Government has asked the Bank to prepare and appraise a multisector
operation to support this special program in collaboration with other donors.
If the Government successfully implements the ongoing adjustment program, and
the Bougainville mine reopens by early 1992. there would be no need for
further quick-disbursing assistance. If the mine does not reopen, a
combination of further stabilization measures and additional quick-disbursing
assistance would be needed for another two years or so (para. 44). In that
event, depending on progress on the adjustment agenda, a follow-up SAL would
be proposed.
58.      Accelerated Growth of the Nonmining Economy.  Our primary objective
in this area is to support the Government in its efforts to accelerate the
growth of output and employment in the nonmlning economy from the low levels
of the 1980s. This will require a stronger investment effort, both in the
private and public sectors. The policy adjustments initiated in response to
the closure of the Bougainville mine, and supported by the proposed SAL (e.g.,
promoting private investment through wage policy reform, investment
deregulation and privatization), are expected to provide an impetus in this
direction, but a concerted and coordinated set of follow-up actions will be
needed to build up the investment momentum in the medium-term. The Bank's
main contribution in this area will be through its analytical work and in its
capacity as Chairman of the Consultative Group. Through these instruments,
the Bank will support the Government ins (a) bringing about further
improvements in the policy environment for the private sector; (b) building up
a strong and well-defined public investment program; and (c) securing support
for this program from the donor community. In terms of direct lending support
in this area, we intend to be very selective, given the concessional finance
available from bilateral donors. Accordingly, over the next three years,
proposed lending in direct support of the private sector is limited to the Oro
Nucleus Estates and Smallholder Project and telecommunications where the Bank
is viewed as having a comparative advantage over other donors and where we
have worked out a medium-term assistance program.
59.      Human Resource Development.  Our major objective in this area is to
assist the Government in formulating and implementing a human resource
development strategy that will help build up human skills from the present
weak base and broaden access to basic services. To upderpin our policy



- 25 -
dialogue on sector strategy and define appropriate areas for donor assistance,
including from the Bank, we intend to undertake an expanded program of
economic and sector work on human resource development issues. We are
proposing to follow-up the 1987 Education Sector Study with an Education
Strategy Review (FY91) and embark on a Review of Health Sector Issues (FY90).
The health sector review will also address institutional and policy issues
related to the establishment of a population program. We intend to
concentrate our lending activities on education and training. The proposed
Public Sector Training Project (FY91) will support quality improvement and
ensure a more efficient delivery of higher education and in-service training.
Additional projects in the education sector will be introduced at a later
date.
60.      Sustainable Development.  Our objective in this area is to assist the
Government in formulating its strategy on the emerging issues of environmental
management, especially in forestry. Based on a Bank-led Tropical Forestry
Action Plan review, a donor conference was held in Port Moresby in early
April. The conference has provided a renewed momentum to the Government's
initiatives to strengthen forestry management and conservation and secure
coordinated support from the donor community. PNG has one of the last
remaining large areas of tropical forest in the world. An innovative feature
of Bank recommendations was to set aside areas for conservation under the
umbrella of the World Heritage Foundation. The Government announced its
willingness to do so at the conference, and asked the Bank to take the lead in
working out the detailed arrangements. The Bank will continue to give high
priority to assisting the Government in implementing its forestry action plan.
Direct support from the Bank will have five elements: (a) supporting changes
in forest resource pricing and taxes and a restructuring of sector
administation through the SAL; (b) coordinating the preparation of a proposal
for World Heritagelsustainable yield declaration for donor support;
(c) executing a UNDP-funded project to design and coordinate donor assistance
to the sector; (d) preparing a technical assistance project aimed at improving
resource information, management and marketing; and (e) modifying the Bank's
Land Mobilization Project, which is already dealing with important land tenure
issues, to cover related forest land use issues.
61.      Institutional Development and Administrative Reform.  The objectives
in this area are to assist the Government in pushing ahead on administrative
reform to reduce the high cost of government in PNG, and to develop the
institutional capacity to prepare and implement a strong public investment
program and support the private sector. This involves addressing a difficult
set of issues, but in view of its vital importance to PNG's development and
the success of our program, we intend to pursue the objective of institution-
building and administrative reform in a number of ways. First, we will place
emphasis on reducing the size and improving the efficiency of the
administrative budget in the proposed SAL. This will include implementation
of a major program of rationalizing the public service (para. 21). Second, we
will use the ongoing Land Mobilization Project to build up institutional
capacity to alleviate a major constraint to project implementation and the
development of the private sector. Third, we will follow up on the findings
of the recent Absorptive Capacity Enhancement Mission, through the SAL,
through our economic work and through the technical assistance project on
public sector management (SNAPEM). Finally, we will use the Consultative
Group frameaork to ensure strong and coordinated donor support for
institution-building and administrative reform.



- 26 -
62.      Role of IFC and MIGA.  There have been no IFC investments in PNG to
date. However, IPC maintains an active interest in the development of
investment opportunities in PNG and has recently been asked to assist in
financing the development of the Iagifu oil field by private participants in
the venture. The Government has indicated that it would welcome IFC1s
participation, and the initiatives being taken to improve the private sector
environment could lead to a more active role for IFC. The recently
established South Pacific Facility will provide a potentially valuable
instrument for supporting private enterprise development in PNG.
63.      As part of its efforts to promote private sector investment, the
Government has decided to join HIGA and has recently signed its Convention.
In view of the large prospective mineral investments as well as the potential
for nonmineral foreign investment, MIGA membership is of particular value to
PNG.
PART V - COLLABORATION WITH DMF
64.      The adjustment program presented in this report has been prepared in
close collaboration with the DMF staff. The loan appraisal mission was
arranged in parallel with an IMP mission for the use of Fund resources, and
the two missions worked jointly with the Government in developing the program.
On April 25, 1990, the Fund Executive Board approved a 14-month stand-by
arrangement of SDR 26.4 million (40Z of quota). The Board also approved a
purchase under the Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility of
SDR 42.8 million (65 of quota). This is the first time that PNG has made use
of Fund resources in the credit tranches. The macroeconomic policy framework
of the adjustment program to be supported by the proposed loan coincides with
that of the stand-by arrangeaent. The staff will maintain close coordination
with the Fund during the course of the implementation of the program.
PART VI - RRCHKNDA?ION
65.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank. I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 10, 1990



Ames. I
(Pago I of 4)
Pt, - OeW MIOCATWtS
Actual                          SEti,ete                                     Projfetod
~~~~~~~~~- -- -- - -- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - -           -- -- - -- - - - - -- - -- - -- - -- -- - -- - - - - -- -- -- - -- - - - -- -- -- -- - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - -                         
ie9     low     1984    low6    1966    1987    1966    1969    199O    1991    1992    1909    1994    19S9    196    1"99?    1998    1999
CDP  frowt fat.                         0.4      8.4    -1.0     8.6      4.6     2.6     8.1      1.4     O.s     5.7    18.0      2.6    13.8      I.S     1.7     1.S      S.0     S.0
OP Growt Rteo                          -0.1      1.5     1.4     8.3      6.0     2.6    O0,       1.6     1.7     0.8    14.0      s.8     8.9      2.8     6.7     2.?      6.6     8.8
C/Ce.lta e Grow  fR.t                  -2.7    -1.1    -1.1      0.8      8.8     0.0   -4.4    -1.0    -0.7    -1.6    11.2        0.9     3.8      0.1     4.2     0.8      8.0      1.0
C newtion/Cepits Groth Rate            -4.8    -0.2    -3.2      8.6    -3.1    -1.2    -4.8    -0.6    -4.8    -2.8    -2.8        0.6     1.1      2.8     2.7     2.9      2.7     3.2
roa 0I0 I/ (WU  miI ion)              1874.4  1788.8  1872.1  19614.7  1941.7  2216.0  2198.6  234.6  2662.1  8222.1  8664.6  S373.9  6406.   8308.9  669.2  8291.1  8284.1  8S6o1.
000/7S 2/                              188.8   181.6   179.9   13O.0   110.9   146.4   121.2   186.9   161.9   169.    188.7  1S4.8    90.8    85.8    82.9    60.2    75.8    78.9
DW/00P                                 56.0    67.4    7.4   "0.8    78.2    71.2   60.4    68.9    77.8   68.5    60.3    77.6    8.9    68.9    60.s    47.1    48.4    41.4
Debt Servie o(U  eIlIIIn)            217.5   279.7   868.6   822.2   800.8   844.4   4s6.4   414.0    60.2   486.4   666.4   799.8   997.2   726.4   646.0          9.s9   on. 1   82.8
Debt ServitcoDS                        24.8    2e.6    34.9    29.8    2!.8    28.0    20.1    24.1    34.4    28.5    25.8    2S.8   26.4    18.8    16.8    15.6    14.6    11.6
ebt Smwic./W                            9.2    10.6    14.8    18.4    11.3    11.1    12.5    11.4    16.6    12.6    14.6    16.6    17.2    11.6          9.9     9.2      8.4     e.8
Interest/3S                            11.      12u.s    18.7    12.1    10.2    10.8     8.8     9.4    10.4    11.7       9.5     9.6     7.5     6.4      8.7     8.1      4.5     4.2
Intarset/0                              4.6     4.6      8.7     5.5     5.0      8.0     4.8     4.4      4.4     8.2      5.5     5.8     4.0      4.0     8.4     8.0      2.6     2.4
fr. s""tet/00P                         82.2    29.4    27.1    20.0    19.7    21.s    24.1    24.0    29.1    86.9    86.0    27.0    19.1    18.2    18.0    1.8s   18.5    18.5
Demotic sovingep                        11.0    18.7    18.8    10.9    18.6    17.      2D0.8    18.0    12.7    15.9    26.4    25.8    38.o    82.1    29.7    27.2    95.8    2s.7
National s,niga/0                       11.4    1s.1    18.9    11.7    18.6    15.2    17.8    12.9    10.7       9.1    10.8    18.7    21.1    16.8    20.1    17.9   1S.8    16.9
fthrinal Osion*l Sa"vin  Rtte                   ;. ..            ..      ..       ..      ..      ..      0.8     1.1      1.4    -3.0     1.0    -2.0      0.4   -O.7       0.8    -0.4
Pwbli Itnvetmeut                        6.O      .0      8.      4.8      6.6     5.8     8.8      5.9     .2      6.8      .9      6.2     5.8      6.1     6.4     6.7      t.9     7.0   t
public Serin/OP S/                     -8.0    -8.?    -6.0    -7.2    -4.9    -2.9    -2.2        2.7     2.8     2.,      2.2     8.2     2.4      2.6     5.1     4.8      5.5      6.0  's
Priwate Investment/00                  26.1    24.7    18.7    14.3    14.4    15.0    14.6    19.0    28.4    29.7    60.0    20.7    12.7    12.0    11.5    1.5    11.5    11.7
Priva.t Sovinge/" 3/                    19.1    22.3    21.4    18.2    20.S    20.4    28.0    10.2       6.4     6.6    17.1    18.8   1s.7    18.9    14.9    18.1    18.3    10.9
Ratio of PbiC/Private Investment       26.8    20.8   26.1    29.8    45.6    88.6    87.4    81.3    2t.S    21.1    19.7    29.9    45.5    so0.          55.5    58. 1    f0.4    89.6
MMF 4/                                                                    9.0     6.7     6.1     7.8      e.3     s.s      4.7     s.9     8.s     8.8      4.1     5.9      4.6     4.6
Governeent Reve 4/0P                   82.0    29.8    81.8    2.7    29.7    29.8    28.0    82.8    80.2    29.4    26.6    26.4    24.8    28.0    27.4    27.1    27.6    28.2
Gowernenat &VOeniturfsP                se. 1     3.2    82.6    82.1    .2.?   80.6    29.1    SS.$    80.8    29.4    25.6    n.7    26.1    90.7    26.1    2e.7   296.9    27.2
Deficit (-) or Surplue (+)/GOP         -6.2    -3.9    -1.2    -2.4    -8.0    -1.8    -1.1    -1.0    -0.2        0.0      0.0     0.7    -0.8    .0.7      1.8     0.8      0.7      1.0
Eapot Groh Rt.t                        -1.6      1.7     3.1    12.3      9.8     2.8     2.7      1.2    -3.      26.1    56.0     0.6    27.0    -2.4    -1.6    -1.2       1.0      0.6
Eaporte r                               6.6    86. 1    89.6    42.8    48.,    48.6    43.8    42.0    40.9    42.7    56.7    86.4    64.0    61.8    89.2    87.0    ss.7 r         8.9
Isport Growth Rat.                     -1.2    -0.6    -1.8    -2.0    -1.1      8.9      1.9    -2.9      1.7    18.8    16.1   -12.0    -5.1    -0.2       2.2     4.0      4.6     4.8
Importo/P                              60.5    58.4    58.4    52.9    51.8    So.1    4a.9    52.1    57.2    62.7    e6.3    57.9    48.1    47.6    47.5    48.2    48.8    49.0
Current Account (MI il;lo)            -492.   -a70.2  -2S4.0  -199.0  -109.8  -196.2  -239.6  -400.9  -682.8  -18.8  -736.?  499.1    113.          17.8   184.6   -6.4    1.9  -11.7
Current Account/U                     -20.8   -14.4   -11.1    48.S    -4.1    -e.8   -4.8   -11.1   -18.4   -26.9   -16.6    -.3           2.0      0.3     2.1    -0.4      0.8    -1.9
Temr  of Trade Index (989W100) s/      60.8    99.3   100.0    88.8    98.7   101.7   100.0   100.0    02.0    87.6    64.8    84.8    86.4    s8.9    86.8    88.6    06.2    88.9
1I Db8t outoteding end diaberee.
W  Exports of ood  nd A  rvi"e-.
8/ Thea are 'domsic' aving, for 1961-4f end 'national o sving, for 196-099.
4/ Fvs-yeor averag., on. year leg.
5/ 1966.100 for 1982-86.



- 28 -
iAnne I
(Peae 2 of 4)
PM - iALANI OF PAVIUI
(US Gi llian at current pric")
Actual                    Got.                        Projected
1981    196    1906   1967        196       96"     1990     1991     1992     1993    1995      1q99
A.  Exports of Goods A NFS               ..      10S    11l    147         1691    1626    1408    164    281    2716    3774    4404
1. Narchandise (FO8)                  842       972    112    1S40       159      1469     14i6     1480    2895      2517    3546    4105
2. Non-Poctar Service                  ..        64      69      97       122      157    l6        174     lSS       199      228      299
D.  I rt of Good *  FS                    ..     1214   1299   1558        1814    1915    1972    2427    so18         2788    220    4006
1. Marchandise (FM                   10?        66      926   1093       12S0     1866     17       1749    2139      1980    1993    2800
2. Han-Factor Services                  .        49    370    465          4"      59        9an     67       80       868      922    1205
C.  Re ce Bloanc"                                -178   -106   -121        -1i3     -289    -56       -773     -487      -72      854      38
D.  hut Fctor Income                   -16l      -44    -132   -171        -a      -199      -142     486      -372     -361    -802      -99
1. Factor Receipts                               56      95      Se  18             91       56 a      2       54       61       01      172
2. Factor Pyment                         -      200    216    229         a2       290      198      368      42S      422      683      S71
(Inte,tx  psyment.)                 73       1J2    131      14        16       161      152      200      252     287      248      194
E.  Not Current Trnferc                 14S       12S    130       96        se       67       73       70       53       84      -34    -153
1. Current Receipts                                                                262      261      268      266      268      250      205
a. workerl  remittane.                                                           46       46       sO       53       S5       61       74
b. othar current trane.            272       20?    209    200         212      216      213      213      213      213      lag      131
2. Current Paymat.                                                                 175      167      194      213      284      283      358
F.  Current Account Balance            -a        -199   -109   -196        -240    -401      -2    -1089    -757    -399          1s    -1E4
0.  Long-Tore Capital Inflow            384       198    151    177         128      a2n       0S    10S5      620      S31      160      411
1. Direct Inv etent                                                                222      251      406      352    3S6       210      W30
2. Official Capital Ornt.               9         4       8       4         5       85       SO      6S        46       40       20       10
a. Not LT Lans (On dat)               a7        229    270      112       120      e6       192      564      422       95      -70       98
a. Diatursmant.                    419       420    439    J0a         412      319      620      6E1      837      614      378     436
b. Reaywnt.                         62       191    169    190         292      25S      428      267      415      819      446     339
4. Oter U Inflwe (net)                                                               0        0        0        0        0        0        0
H.  Total Other Item  (net)              40        27    -2        14        64       19        0        0        0        0       0        0
1. Nt Slhort Tre Capital                0         0       0       0         0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0
2. CapitalFlowe,N.E.I.                  0         0       0       0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
S. Error and Omieaon-                  40        27    -25       14        64       19        0        0        0        0        0       0
I.  Change in Rweervsa                  9s        -13       0      10        59       60       45      -2      -es    -118    -147    -257
1. Nt Credit fro theF                 -46         8               5         5        0      -4        -6        0       14      81        0
2. Other Rwe rv- Change                107      -21    -16        5        54       6o      130        4      -63     -132    -178    -2b7
C- indicatea increase)
Sharee of CDP (Current (W):
1. Rleeurce Balance                              -7.4   -4.1   -3.9        -3.4    -8.0   -16.4   -20.0    -9.6    -1.5    13.9           4.9
2. Total Interest Payments              2.9        5.5    5.0    5.0        4.5      4.4      4.4      5.2      5.5      5.5      4.0      2.4
3. Curret Account Ialance             -21.2      -8.8   -4.1   -6.3        -4.6   -11.1   -18.4   -26.9   -16.6    -8.3           0.3    -1.9
4. LT Capital Inflow (ins 0)           18.8       8.0    5.7    5.7         S.4      8.9    14.6    26.7    18.0    11.0          2.6     8.0
S. Not Cree it from the DW             -1.9       0.8    0.6    0.2         0.1      0.0    -2.5    -0.2        0.0      0.3      0.5     0.0
I morandum Item:
(MP (Hil of Current )UM                2S06      240C   2652   3118        38s7    861       3446    3670    454    4813        SI62    6168
Forein Exchange Rsrvec:
1. Int'l. Reerves (IFS lid)             S96       440    425    437         89S
2. Gold (London price. US/*a)           460       817   8s        44t       437
S. Creas Reeerve. mndl Cold             426       44S    42    501          474      395      850      852      415      883      772    1697
4. Gross Res. in Monts of
Nanineral Iworts                   4.7       6.8    7.4    6.4         5.6      4.3      3.9      3.9      4.2      0.0      6.0      9.4
Exchange Ratee (Kina/U):
1. Noc. off. X-Ite (VFS rh)           0.672     1.000  0.971   0.90       0.967    o.8S2   0.962   0.962   0.962   0.962   0.962   0. s2
2. Real Eff. XatIboe e198               117       1OS    102    101         t00      103      9f        95       95       95       95       95
3. X-ate for OC  Conversion           O.672     1.000   0.971  0.908    0.867   0.862   0.962   0.962   0.92    0.9S2    0.962    0.962



- 29 -
Annex I
(page 3 of 4)
SPECIAL BALANCE OF PAThENTS FIRMING                 la AND SOURCES
DURING PROGRAM PERIOD, 1990-91
(US$ million)
Estimate     Proiected
1989     1990     1991
Requirements                                         60        235      133
Overall BOP deficit without adjustment lb          86        365      310
Reduction in BOP deficit due to adjustment         26        130      177
Likely Financins                                      -        190      135
ADB Agricultural Sector Program Loan LS             -         40       40
OECF Cofinancing of ADB Program Loan                -         10       10
IWP CCFF Drawing /c                                 -         56        -
IMP Stand-by Arrangement /c                         -         29        5
IBRD Structural Adjustment Loan                     -         25       25
Other Financing L4                                  -         30       55
Change in Reserves                                  -60        -45        2
Memo:
Gross Official Reserves                           395        350      352
(months of nonmineral imports)                    4.3       3.9       3.9
Source: World Bank staff estimates.
/a Adjustment-linked balance of payments support.
/b Before inclusion of any adjustment-linked BOP financing, and excluding
valuation adjustments.
/c Already approved.
fd Includes likely financing from the EEC and bilateral sources including
Australia and Japan.



- 30 -
Annex I
(page 4 of 4)
EXTERNAL FINANCIAL DULICATIONS OF A PROLONGED CLOSURE OF
BOUGFAINVUiL NINE, 1990-99
1990    1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1999
Current account balance
(US$ million)
Mine opens 1992                 -632  -1,039  -757  -399   114    18  -154
Mine closed throughout          -632  -1,039  -998  -564   -48  -104  -278
Special BOP financing requirement /a
(US$ million)
Mine opens 1992                  190     135      -     -     -      -     -
Mine closed throughout           190     135    85    60      -      -     -
Gross official reserves
(months of nonmineral imports)
Mine opens 1992                  3.9     3.9   4.2   5.0   5.4   6.0   9.4
Mine closed throughout           3.9     3.9   3.9   3.9   4.2   4.8   7.3
Debt service ratio (Z)
Mine opens 1992                 34.4    28.5  25.3  28.8  26.4  18.8  11.6
Mine closed throughout          34.4    28.5  31.8  33.4  30.2  21.5  14.1
la Excludes STABEX/SYSMIN.
Sources Staff projections.



- 31 -
Anne2 II
STATUS OF MM GROUP OPhRTIONS IN PAPUA MW GUINE
A. Statement of lank Loans and IDA Credits  lb
(January 31, 1990)
Amount (less
cancellations)
Loan or                                                                 Undis-
credit   Fiscal  Bor-            Purpose               Bank      IDA    bursed
number    year   rower                                  -----(US$ million-----
11 loans and 13 credits fully disbursed                 117.3   113.7        --
2265-PNG   1983   PNG   Road Improvement                31.0        --      7.8
2276-PNG   1983   PNG  Agricultural Support Services   8.5          --      0.1
2395-PNG   1984   PNG   Secondary Education             49.3        --      8.7
2475-PNG   1985   PNG  West Sepik Provincial             9.7        --      4.4
2608-PNG   1986   PNG   Nucleus Estate & Smallholder   27.6         --     16.7
2722-PNG   1986   PNG   Yonki Hydroelectric             28.5        --     13.0
2742-PNG   1987   PNG   Transport Improvement           45.5        --     36.6
3051-PNG   1989   PNG   Land Mobilization               19.6        --     19.6
3154-PNG   1990   PNG   Third Telecommunications        17.2        --     17.2
Total                                             354.2    113.7    124.1
of which has been repaid                           58.2       3.4
Total Now Outstanding                             280.1    110.3
Total Undisbursed                                 124.1       0.0
la The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank-/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
lb Prior to exchange adjustments.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
None.



- 32 -
Annex III
PAPUA NEW GUINE
STRUCTURL ADJUSn Es LOAN
SupplementaEy Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project    t  3 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project    s  Ministry of Finance and Planning/
Bank of Papua New Guinea
(c) First presentation to the Bank   5  November 1989
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission   s  February 1990
(e)  Completion of negotiations        t  April 1990
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness    :  July 1990
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Tranche release conditions are set out in paragraphs 52-54 of the
Report.



- 33 -
mnex IV
(Page 1 of 13)
27th April, 1990
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Conables
PAPUA nW GUINEt STRUCTUR   ADJUSMMT LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.       The Government of Papua New Guinea (PNG) is currently implementing a
wide ranging stabilization and structural adjustment programme. By this
letter, the Government wishes to request a Structural Adjustment Loan from the
Bank in support of this programme. The letter sets out the objectives of the
Government's programme and the policy actions that have been taken or are
planned under the programme.
Background
2.       Because of militant activity on the island, the Bougainville copper
and gold mine has been closed since May 15, 1989. As the mine contributed
about 35Z of L   rt earnings and 152 of government revenue in recent years,
its closure has caused the balance of payments and fiscal positions to come
under severe pressure. An aggravating factor has been the sharp drop in the
prices of most of PNG's exports. In response to these developments, the
Government promptly tightened fiscal and monetary policies, and also announced
a cautious budget for 1990. These initial policy adjustments were based on
the assumption that the mine would reopen in early 1990. However, as militant
activity on the island continued, it became clear toward the end of 1989 that
the mine would not reopen in early 1990, and, in late December, the decision
was taken to place the mine on a "care and maintenancel basis until the
seclarity situation on the island improved. While the Government is continuing
its efforts to reach a settlement with the militants, the mine is now likely
to remain closed throughout 1990, and possibly longer.



- 34 -                Annex IV
(Page 2 of 13)
3.       Anticipating the continued closure of the mine, the Government had
been preparing a comprehensive programme of stabilization and structural
adjustment. Building on the already cautious budget for 1990, further
stabilization measures bave been, and are being, taken in view of the much
larger financial imbalances now expected. On January 9, 1990, the Government
took the difficult step of devaluing the kins by 10 and has since announced
other adjustment measures encompassing expenditure reducti'ns, further
tightening of monetary policy, and wage restraint. The Government has also
recognized that the financial difficulties stemming from the closure of the
mine underscore the need, as well as provide an opportunity, to undertake more
fundamental structural adjustments to promote the d'velopment of the nonmining
economy,_and has embarked on a programme of structural reform.
4.       To support its stabilization and structural reform efforts, the
Government approached the Bank for a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL). The
adjustment prograume described below has been prepared in consultation with
Bank missions that visited PNG in November 1989 and February 1990. The
Government also approached the IMP for a stand-by arrangement and a drawing
under the Fund's compensatory financing facility. The macroeconomic framework
of the adjustment programme has been developed in joint consultation with the
Bank and the Fund. In parallel with these efforts, the Government has
initiated a programme of structural adjustments focused on the agricultural
sector, for which it has secured support from the Asian Development Bank under
an Agricultural Sector Programme Loan.
Objectives of the Proarame
5.       The adjustment programme to be supported by the requested loan and to
be implemented during 1990-91 has three central objectivess to preserve
external and internal financial stability in the face of the shortfall in
revenues; to strengthen structural reforms aimed at promoting faster growth of
the nonmining economy; and to minimize the social costs of adjustment.
6.       Mr. President, the Government of PNG has established a good record in
macroeconomic management in recent years, wibch is reflected in the
substantial improvement in its external and internal financial indicators over
this period. The closure of the Bougainville mine posed a new challenge to
maintain financial stability. It is estimated that, without any policy
adjustments, the overall balance of payments deficit would 'save amounted to
over US$300 million in 1990. With a projected deficit of this magnitude, the
Government recognized that substantial stabilization measures were needed to
protect foreign reserves and avoid an excessive build-up of the debt service
burden. The Government's aim is to reduce the balance of payments financing
requirement through appropriate adjustment policies to a level that can
reasonably be met from concessional and official sources and will allow
reserves to be maintained at about four months of nonmineral imports which we
consider to be the minimum prudent level in our present circumstances.



- 35 -          ~~Annex IV
(Page 3 of 13)
7.       As noted above, recent developments have also increased the urgency
of addressing some longstanding structural impediments that have kept growth
of the nonmining economy low. Removal or reduction of these impediments will
facilitate a more growth-oriented adjustment process and will contribute to
stronger and broad-based development of the nonmining economy. Prospective
development of the country's substantial mineral, including petroleum,
resources could lead to a major improvement in its financial strength later in
the 19909. However, mining being a largely enclave and highly capital-
intensive activity, the generation of adequate employment opportunities for
the rapidly growing labour force will continue to depend primarily on growth
in the nonmining economy. Actions to improve the structural policy framework
and strengthen institutional reform will not only contribute to higher growth
in the short run but will also permit a more effective utilization of the
prospective financial resources generated by the mineral sector in the
development of the nonmining economy. Through growth-oriented adjustment
policies, we are aiming at restoring nonmining GDP growth, following a dip in
1990, to its recent trend rate of about Z-2.5Z p.a. in 1991 and achieving a
gradual increase in the growth rate over the medium term to 4-SZ p.a. by the
middle of the decade.
Programme CoaMonents
8.       Mr. President, the formulation of the adjustment programme has been
guided by four major principles: achieving the necessary reduction of domestic
demand for stabilization purposes primarily by cutting public spending to
minimize the impact of adjustment on private sector growth; concentrating the
reduction of public spending on consumption expenditures, while protecting
essential social services, in order to maintain adequate funding of priority
investments; focusing structural reform on two policy areas central to the
development of the nonmining economy, namely, public resource management and
the environment for private investment; and improving the competitiveness of
the nonmining economy as a key means to promoting private investment and
economic diversification. Policy actions that the Government has taken or
intends to take under the adjustment programme can accordingly be organized
under three headings; macroeconomic framework for stabilization; improvement
of public resource management; and promotion of the nonmining private sector.
The policy actions are set out in detail, in timetable format, in the matrix
attached to this letter and are snmmarized below.
A. Macroeconomic Framework for Stabilization
9.       To maintain internal and external financial stability, the Government
is implementing a coordinated set of macroeconomic policies. These comprise:
cuts in government expenditure and measures to increase revenues; slower
growth of domestic credit and increase in interest rates; and exchange rate
adjustment coupled with wage moderation, which, in addition to complementing
fiscal and monetary policy in achieving the stabilization objective, will also
contribute to improving the competitiveness of the nonmining economy.
Consistent with this policy stance, and in view of the already high debt
service burden, the Government will refrain from external commercial borrowing
for budgetary financing, and keep such borrowing by public commercial
enterprises within prudent limits.



- 36-                 Annex V
(Page 4 of 13)
10.      Specific actions in these policy areas are set out in the attached
matrix, and will form part of a parallel stand-by arrangement with the IMP.
The fiscal adjustment aied at under the programme is substantial. The
programme aims to achieve a virtual balance in the overall fiscal position in
1990; without policy actions, the fiscal deficit would have amounted to around
S4 of GDP. Strong fiscal adjustment will allow credit growth to support
nonmining private sector activity to be maintained at an adequate level while
still reducing growth in total domestic credit significantly, consistent with
the stabilization objective.
11.      The Government will ma!ntain a restrained fiscal and monetary stance
in 1991. In the fiscal area, the Government is aiming at maintaining an
overall balanced budgetary position in 1991 and over the medium term. Precise
macroeconomic policy targets for 1991 will be determined in consultation with
the Bank and the Fund later in 1990 on the basis of a review of the outcome
during the year and the outlook for 1991.
S. Imrovement of Public Resource Management
12.      Actions under this heading are designed to address three key
structural aspects of public resource management in PNG, namely: strengthening
public resource mobilization; improving public expenditure management; and
enhancing public institutional capacities.
Public Resource Mobilization
13.      The Government has taken several revenue measures as part of the 1990
budget, with an estimated revenue effect of about 11 of GDP. These included
the introduction of new withholding taxes to broaden the coverage of income
taxation. Under the budget for 1991, the Government will take another set of
tax measures which will generate at least K30 million in new revenue during
the year. In addition to raising revenues consistent with the overall
budgetary target for the year, these measures will aim at improving the
structure of the tax system and broaden its base. The Government is reviewing
several specific proposals, both for short-term revenue raising purposes and
for medium-term reform of the tax system, prepared by the Bank and will begin
Implementation of proposals agreed with the Bank with the 1991 budget. The
Government's aim is to broaden the base of both direct and indirect taxation,
while incrementally increasing reliance on indirect taxes. In the area of
direct taxation, several new measures are being considered for implementdtion:
interes Aithholding; presumptive taxation; and capital gains taxation. In
indirect taxation, the major initiative under review is to shift toward a
broad-based consumption tax at import and manufacturing stages by introducing
a general excise tax and realigning trade and domestic indirect taxes. The
Government is also considering changing the valuation base of import tariffs
from f.o.b. to c.i.f., and a phased prograsme of replacing nontariff barriers
with tariffs. In addition, further efforts will be made to ensure the
adoption of a umiform sales tax by the provinces and to increase the
effectiveness of the tax.



- 37 -                Annex IV
(Page 5 of 13)
14.      The Government is reviewing forestry and mineral tax arrangements
with the objective of ensuring that these arrangements provide adequate return
to the Government from the exploitation of these natural resources while also
offering due incentives to private investors. In line with the
recommendations of a recently completed forestry sector review conducted under
the auspices of the Tropical Forestry Action Plan (TFAP), the Government has,
under the 1990 budget, introduced progressive taxation of log species, in the
process also raising the average export tax on logs to 192 of f.o.b. value.
The Government is also reviewing a proposal to move to a system of collecting
indirect levies on logging as cash payments at the beginning of the logging
operations rather than contributions in kind as at present. In line with the
recommendations of the TFAP report, the Government will take steps in 1991 to
strengthen the State Purchasing Option to minimize transfer pricing. A study
of mineral and petroleum taxation has recently been completed. Based on our
current review of the findings of this study, a determination will be made
before the end of the year of what adjustments, if any, in the present tax
regime are necessary and the timetable for their implementation.
15.      The Gcvernment has  introduced a new business withholding tax under
the 1990 budget. During 1990-91, measures will be taken to enhance the
institutional capability for effective administration of this tax, including
the hiring of necessary additional staff. The Government will also step up
efforts for the recovery of income tax arrears, which will include setti"-g up
an additional tax court, if deemed necessary.
16.      Alongside these tax measures, the Government will take actions to
Improve recovery of the costs of providing some key public services. Tariffs
for services provided by public enterprises will be reviewed annually to
determine the need for adjustments in the light of cost developments. Before
the end of the year, the Government will agree with the Bank on specific
measures to improve cost recovery in the transport sector. The Government
recognizes that subsidy levels in higher education are high. During 1990, on
the basis of a review of the structure of student financial support undertaken
as part of a Higher Education Plan being prepared, the Government will
determine, in consultation with the Bank, actions that need to be taken and a
timetable for their implementation.
Public Expenditure Kanagement
17.      Notwithstanding the increase in expenditure due to security
operations on Bougainville island and the effect of devaluation, total
government expenditure in 1990 will be reduced by K74 million from the level
projected in the original budget for the year (about 6.8Z of the original
budget). With this reduction, total expenditure in 1990 will be about 2.8S
less than the estimate for 1989, which translates into a reduction of about
102 in real terms. In reducing expenditure, the Government has attempted at
the same time to improve its stsucture. For this purpose, a comprehensive



- 38 -                Annex IV
(Page 6 of 13)
review of expenditures has been carried out. Proportionally the largest cuts
have been made in general administrative expenditure -- about 201. Wages,
salaries and other employee payments of national and provincial departments,
including retrenchment compensation, will be limited to K330 million, allowing
no increase over the estimated total for 1989. Within the recurrent budget,
expenditures for the operation of priority public services -- e.g.
agricultural extension and research, education and health -- have been
protected from large cuts, and the allocation for maintenance works (upkeep of
infrastructure, especially roads) has been increased as the original budget
allocation was assessed to be particularly inadequate. While the allocation
for public investment in the National Government budget has been reduced by
about K 37 million from the original 1990 estimate, it is still about 2?
higher in real terms over the outcome in 1989, compared to a 14? reduction in
real terms in all other expenditure on goods and services. Cuts made in the
public investment programme (PIP) mainly reflect expected implementation
shortfalls from the ambitious targets originally set for the year. Also, some
lower priority projects have been rephased. The revised PIP for 1990, as a
result, is more realistic. The restructuring of expenditure is being
complemented by measures to strength- expenditure control and monitoring to
ensure that expenditure is consistent with budgeted provision.
18.      The Government has reviewed and agreed with Bank staff the overall
size and composition of the revised 1990 budget and the PIP. The recurrent
budget and the PIP for 1991 will be similarly agreed with Bank staff. To make
up for some loss of ground in 1990, the Government is aiming at increasing the
PIP by about 71 in real terms in the 1991 budget over the revised 1990 budget
level.
19.      The Government will maintain firm control over general administrative
expenditure in order to release more resources for higher priority operations
and maintenance (O&M) expenditure and new investments. This will be achieved
through restraining increases in employee salaries and rationalizing the
public service. The Government has recently reached agreement with the Public
Employees Association covering the period September 1989 - September 1992
whereby the average annual increase in salaries will be limited to about 4.52
during this period. The average increase in salaries in 1990 will be well
below this limit, between 3-3.52. Given the projected increase in consumer
prices of about 8.51 in 1990, this will result in an average fall in salaries
in real terms of 5-5.52 during the year. The Government has announced a
freeze on new hirings which it intends to enforce firmly. The freeze exempts
some selected parts of the public service where the need for new hirings has
been established, e.g. teachers. Through the application of the freeze and
natural attrition, the Government is targeting a net reduction of the public
service by about 2? in 1990 (about 95C employees). In addition, the
Government has identified about 1,250 surplus staff who will be retrenched
during the year. Thus, the total reduction in the size of the public service
in 1990 will be about 2,200 (roughly 4.7? of the total).
20.      At the same time as proceeding with the retrenchment of surplus staff
who have already been identified, the Government is preparing a medium-term
programme for rationalizing the public service that will be finalized by July
1990 and put into implementation by January 1991. Under this programme, based
on a review of departmental functions, some departments will be abolished and



39 -                Annex IV
(Page 7 of 13)
some others will be restructured to improve their efficiency and eliminate
overlapping functions. Of the staff determined to be surplus, some will be
redeployed and others retrenched. Annual staff redeployment/retrenchment
targets will be established under the programme. Wages, salaries and other
employee payments, including retrenchment compensation, of national and
provincial departments will be limited to a ceiling of K335 million in 1991.
21.      The Government is taking steps to improve the funding and management
of O&M expenditure. With the 1991 Budget Circular, the Government will issue
to departments a policy statement on O&M, emphasizing the importance of
effective operation of public economic and social services and adequate
maintenance of infrastructure and clearly indicating the priority to be
attached to this objective in the allocation of budgetary resources. Work has
been started on the preparation of O&M strategies and expenditure guidelines
in four key sectors -- agriculture, transport, education and health -- which
will be completed in time to guide the preparation of the recurrent budgets of
these departments for 1991. The ongoing phased introduction of programme-
oriented budgeting will be continued which will, inter alia, facilitate the
planning and monitoring of O&M expenditures. With the 1991 budget, the
Government will institute a medium-term expenditure plan, to be updated
annually with the budget, which will extend medium-term expenditure planning
(currently limited to the PIP) to recurrent expenditure.
22.      The Government will continue with the recently initiated reform of
the agricultural commodity stabilization funds in order to reduce the burden
on budgetary resources and induce producers to become competitive at world
prices. A new scheme for cocoa was introduced in January 1990 to phase out
price support within three years. Proposals for the rationalization of other
commodity funds are being developed. Under the current Agricultural Sector
Programme Loan from the ADB, the Government has undertaken to revise commodity
price support formulas and implement other reform measures to make commodity
funds fully self-financing over a period of time. The Government has also
undertaken to limit the use of budgetary resources to support these funds
during this reform process. Before January 1991, the Government will review
with the Bank progress on rationalizing the agricultural price stabilization
policy under the ADB loan in order to determine what further actions, if any,
may be necessary.
Institutional Reform and Capacity Suilding
23.      To improve the operation of public services and build up and
effectively implement the PIP, public institutional capacities need
considerable enhancement. The Government is fully cognizant of this need and
has recently taken several initiatives aimed at increasing the supply of
skilled staff and streamlining the institutional framework and procedures for
the planning and implementation of development projects and programmes. To
strengthen in-service training, a National Training Policy (NTP) has been
drawn up. Preparatory work for implementation of three key components of the
NTP has been substantially completed. These comprise: enhancing the capacity
of the Department of Personnel Management to oversee and coordinate NTP
implementation; preparing a three-year training programme for individual



- 40 -              Annex IV
(Page 8 of 13)
departments; and strengthening and reorienting training programmes at the
Administrative College (Adcol). Full implementation of these components will
begin by July 1990. To improve the efficiency and relevance of higher level
pre-service training, the preparation of a Higher Education Plan (HEP) is
nearing completion. The Plan will be finalized by July 1990 and its
implementation will comnence by January 1991.  The Government will also
streamline appointment procedures for personnel, including consultants, in
order to expedite the recruitment of staff with needed skills. Also, the
compensation of staff with highly specialized and scarce skills will be
reviewed, and adjustments made, if necessary, to ensure that their
compensation remains competitive, thereby preventing high turnover among such
staff.
24.      To streamline the preparation and implementation of projects in the
PIP, and establish clear departmental responsibilities during the project
cycle, a new project cycle system has been prepared. The system will be fully
installed by January 1991. Other steps that will be taken during 1990 to
expedite project preparation and implementation will includes establishing an
effective mechanism for monitoring project preparation and implementation;
raising the ceiling for project contracts that can be awarded without
requiring the approval of the National Executive Council (NEC), the State
Solicitor and the Governor General to K3 million; streamlining approval of
loan agreements between the Government and external donors; and reviewing the
feasibility study status and land acquisition requirements of all projects
included in the 1990-94 PIP.
25.      To strengthen the institutional capacity for the management of forest
resources, the Government will take several actions during 1990 based on the
recommendations of the TFAP report. An administrative structure for forestry
consistent with the recommendations of the report will be adopted and its
implementation will get under way including the completion of the design of
the new forestry servlce and the sppointment of a National Forestry Board.
Steps will be taken to determine and effectively monitor allowable logging
levels. A TFAP round table conference was recently held to discuss the
overall action plan proposed by the report (including some major initiatives
aimed at conservation) and the need for donor support in its implementation.
C. Promotion of Noaminig Private Sector
26.      As noted above, notwithstanding the prospects for mineral development
over the medium term, sustained and broad-based growth of income and
employment in the economy will depend mainly on improved growth performance in
the nonmining sectors. The Government believes that the private sector must
play a stronger role in achieving faster growth in the nonmining economy. A
major thrust of the Government's structural adjustment programme, accordingly,
is to improve the environment for nonmining private sector investment and
growth. Major policies that the Government will pursue toward this end under
the programme are described below.



- 41 -                Annex IV
(Page 9 of 13)
Wage and Exchange Rate Policies
2w.      A key element of Government strategy to promote growth of the
nonmining private sector will be to improve the international competitiveness
of nodmineral productive activities through coordinated use of wage and
exchange rate policies. This will includet limiting increases in nominal
wages in order to achieve a significant downward adjustment of real wages
(which are currently high relative to productivity and wages in competitor
countries); reducing wage indexation to introduce greater flexibility in the
process of wage determination; and maintaining a responsive exchange rate
policy.
28.      In the area of wage policy, some progress has recently been made in
reducing rigidities in the determination of wages. The latest award of the
Minimum Wages Board, covering 1990-92 and fully indexing wages for the first
six percentage point increase in the CPI, will be applied strictly to minimum
wages unlike in the past when the award was applied practiollv lto all wages.
Under the present arrangement, wages above the minimum level will be
determined through negotiations between employers and employees. Even at
minimun wage levels, the application of the wage award has been made
contingent upon the employers' capacity to pay. As already mentioned (para.
19), the Government has reached agreement with the Public Employees
Association which will result in an average downward adjustment of real wages
in the public sector of 5-5.5Z in 1990. The Government will encourage the
private sector to exercise similar wage restraint. The Government recognizes
that the wage adjustment achieved in 1990 involves some compression of wage
differentials and that this pattern of wage adjustment cannot continue for
long without creating disincentives for acquisition of higher-level skills.
Accordingly, it will strengthen its efforts to reduce the extent of minimum
wage indexation in the economy.
29.      The recent wage agreements, by weakening the previous one-to-one
relationship between price increases and wages, allow greater scope for the
use of exchange rate policy to imr'ove international competitiveness, while
reducing its repercussions on domestic inflation.  The recent devaluation, in
addition to contributing to structural adjustment through improving
competitiveness, was also aimed at contributing to the present stabilization
effort. The Government recognizes that the exchange rate has a role to play
in alleviating the burden being carried by public resources and the banking
system in supporting farmers' incomes in the face of the current slump in
treecrop export prices. The Government will keep the exchange rate under
active review, and will fully take into account the aforesaid considerations
in determining its exchange rate policy during the prograume period.
Reform of Investment Regulation
30.      The existing institutional and regulatory framework governing the
approval and operation of foreign investment has proven to be cumbersome, and
has discouraged the flow of such investment into the nonmining economy. The
Government has prepared a detailed set of proposals for the reform of this
framework for implementation during 1990. These include: a major
reorganization of the institutional arrangements for the approval of
investment applications (including a trimming of the regulatory functions of



- 42 -                Annex IV
(Page 10 of 13)
the National Investment Development Authority); streamlining of procedures for
approval; and liberalization of the approval criteria. Furthermore, to
actively promote foreign investment, an Industry Promotion Board is to be
established to replace the existing promotional arrangements that have proven
to be ineffective. To complement these measures, restrictions on the
ekployment and entry of noncitizens will be eased. Following NEC approval,
the implementation of these proposals will begin by July 1990. and our aim is
to have made substantial progress in implementation by the end of the year.
Privatization
31.      The Government has also decided to expedite the implementation of its
plans to privatize most of its commercial investments, both to encourage
private sector development and to release resources tied up in these
investments for alternative uses. Excluding the major public utilities and
shareholdings in mineral projects, the Government's commercial investment
portfolio is not very larga, but returns on it have been poor. A
comprehensive list of inv stments for either privatization or liquidation has
been drawn up. The Gove sment would like to divest its holdings in several
enterprises, especially in agriculture, during 1990-91. To help with the
technical/financial aspects of the implementation of the privatization
program, services of a merchant bank or a similar agency will be obtained.
The privatization program will soon be submitted to the NEC for approval and
its implementation will begin before the end of the year. As a complementary
measure, the NEC has approved the privatization/commercialization of several
services currently performed by government departments. The objective is to
reduce public sector involvement in services that can be better performed by
the private sector and to make some services self-financing by allowing them
to be run along the lines of commercial statutory authorities. The
implementation of the NEC decision is under way.
Financial Sector Development
32.      Two central objectives of the Government's financial sector policies
are to increase savings and improve the allocation of financial resources.
Most commercial bank interest rates are market determined. An objective of
monetary policy will be to ensure that deposit rates remain sufficiently high
in real terms. A major financial sector issue is the weak rural credit system
and the need to place it on a sounder footing. Under the ADB Programme Loan,
a study will be undertaken in 1990 which will examine the cost and
availability of rural credit as well as issues relating to the operations of
the Agriculture Bank of Papua New Guinea. The recommendations of this study
will form the basis for actions that the Government will take to strengthen
the rural credit system. Before January 1991, the Government will review with
the Bank progress on rural credit reform under the ADB loan in order to
identify what further measures, if any, might be needed.



- 43 -
Annex IV
(Page 11 of 13)
Trade Policy Reform
33.      The Government is reviewing several specific proposals for
rationalizing the trade regime, most of which are linked to the tax reform
proposals described above (para 13) that the Government is considering. These
include: determining a timetable for replacing import bans by tariffs;
changing the tariff valuation base to c.i.f.; merging the non-protective
tariff rates into the proposed general excise tax; limiting tariffs to
protective purposes only; retaining a single, and lower, protective rate; and
instituting effective ways to ensure that protective rates do not harm export
competitiveness. Implementation of actions, agreed with the Bank, vill begin
before January 1991.
34.      The Government has decided against the imposition of a ban on log
exports which had been under consideration. Instead, domestic processing of
forestry resources will be encouraged through appropriate tax incentives and
policies to improve its efficiency, quality and competitiveness. Feasibility
studies are being initiated to determine the viability of some processing
activities, e.g., wood-chipping and pulp-milling, and help identify a package
of supportive measures.
Social Costs of Adlustment
35.      Mr. President, the closure of the Bougainville mine, the disruption
of nonmining activity on the island and depressed world prices for PNG's
treecrop exports have combined to create a strong deflationary effect on
employment and incomes in the economy. Tne adjustment programme that is being
put in place is designed to achieve an early recovery of economic growth and
to improve the distribution of income. In particular, the structural measures
will: promote growth of employment, through wage policy reform and gains in
competitiveness; benefit exporters, the majority of whom are rural
smallholders; and lay the basis for a stronger public investment programme
directed toward improving and expanding public infrastructure and basic
services.
36.      Nevertheless, the fiscal and monetary restraint, as well as the wage
and exchange rate adjustments, that are necessitated by the large shortfall in
revenues will have a short-term adverse impact on incomes, particularly among
urban wage earners. The Government is accordingly taking a number of steps to
mitigate these short-term costs of adjustment and to ensure the sustainability
of the adjustment package. First, in allocating expenditure cuts, special
attention has been paid to protecting basic services and programmes aimed at
disadvantaged groups and poorer areas. Second, the Government will facilitate
the reemployment in the private sector of those affected by civil service
reform through retraining and improved placement mechanisms, and will seek
Bank support for these activities under the proposed Public Sector Training
Project. Third, the Government will undertake a special programme of
interventions aimed specifically at offsetting the social costs of adjustment.



- 44 -                Annex IV
(Page 12 of 13)
This programme will include, inter alia, support for housing, health
facilities and medical supplies, small business development, and road and
water supply/drainage maintenance works. The Government has prepared this
programme in consultation with a Bank-led multi-donor mission that visited PNG
in March 1990 and we expect to present the programme for financial support to
the donor community at the Consultative Group meeting scheduled for May 17-18,
1990.
Proarams Implementation and Monitoring
37.      The Government intends to monitor carefully the various elements of
the adjustment programme to ensure successful implementation of the envisaged
policies and measures. The Government will monitor and review the
macroeconomic targets on a regular basis, and will provide a quarterly report
on key macroeconomic indicators to the Bank. In view of the expenditure
reductions that we are now undertaking, we intend to institute the necessary
mechanism for expenditure reporting to ensure that these expenditure
adjustments are implemented, including in the wage and salary bill.
Similarly, we will monitor the PIP and the O&M budget closely to ensure that
the allocative objectives are met. This information will be provided to the
Bank on a quarterly basis. Progress on other adjustment measures under the
programme will be reported to the Bank in accordance with the timetable for
implementation set out in the attached matrix.
38.      To facilitate the implementation of the programme and ensure
effective monitoring, an inter-Departmental Working Group on Structural
Adjustment Implementation responsible to the Resource Management Committee
(3WC) will be established, comprising representatives of agencies involved in
the implementation of the various components of the programme. The Working
Group will prepare quarterly progress reports on programme implementation for
approval by the RMC. Copies of these reports will be provided to the relevant
agencies and the Bank. These reports will include, inter alia, the
information noted in the preceding paragraph.
39.      Over the coming months, the Government will be formulating follow-up
policy actions in a number of areas including revenue mobilization, civil
service reform, streamlining of planning, budgeting, and monitoring of both
investment and recurrent expenditures, reform of trade policy and investment
regulation, and privatization. Many of these follow-up measures will be
implemented under the 1991 budget. The Government will discuss these
proposals with the Bank in the preparation of the budget, and would appreciate
support, as needed, on specific initiatives.



- 45 -
Annex IV
(Page 13 of 13)
Conclusion
40.      Mr. President, as this letter makes evident, the Government is
undertaking a comprehensive programme of stabilization and structural
adjustment. With your support, we are confident that this programme will not
only enable us to overcome the immediate financial difficulties facing Papua
New Guinea but also lay the foundations for accelerated growth in the medium-
term so as to meet the employment and development needs of the country.
Sincerely yours,
el  __
Paul Pora, MBE, MP
Minister for Finance and Planning
Attachment



(pass 1 of 10)
ATTAC5O(          Annex  V
PAUA  MW OUWEA - STmUCTLRI. ADThr8E  L,*                               Note: UdAer#tind actions
-- - ------ ----------------------------------            in col_nv worked to and
lb ore specific OdWton,
POUlCY K%IR1X                                                  of effectiveness and
__________                                                    second trerch. relew,
resmpctively.
Actions T k avto bo Takk.n Under the Program
___ ___  __  ___ __  ___ __  ___ ____. __ ---------_ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ _ -_                        _  _  _ _  _  _ -  _________    -- - - -- -     -- - - - -- - --          --- - -- - - -
Polcy otbjective                     Action  Taken Atready                 dy JOly 190 Is                 Sort Janary 199  lb                       Foleptv Action
A. lhcroeonosic Frework for Stabiliastlon
Mlass Policy
AdJ.t fisal Poticy In               NM  revnu  r;aisng  eamer                                               Adopt a budgt for 191.             Continua a Prsdent fical
respos. to flical eWd balanc       with   revans affect of about                                            --_______ _____                    tance.
Of paymtet, isplicetinea of        1 of CP teen with originel                                              aiming  t maintnace of a
cotineod clomer of OML in           190 bedgs,  toe    peditr                                                -       --------
ordr to preerv  d_;metic            rvised dowwrd by K(74 SilI;on                                          bal nd  overall fical
financial sbtiity  ..d              from original 19tO budgt with                                             -----_____________---
;mintain a viable onterna           the aim of ; chisung dpproiae;_te                                       vositon (in DWF formt). 
py t poition.                       balaes in orll fil                                                     ------------------                                                            CJ
position (in IF  formt).
Mon.tsry and C;redi Policy
tsp overalt doetic erdit            Inereases in not d_sstic                                               Adapt *reeod cii Inogo on not       Continua to Sim mn.tcry policy
rowth to a leve  consietent        assets of the bantk ng Sytem                                            donstic seeste of twe banking       st meting credit reouilrements
with maintenance of dometic        to bo ititeod to 4.75 in 1t90.                                           At" Ond nat credit to              of Ori.vte sor growth
end  external finncial             with net credit to Government                                           Covernment la 1991.                 cansiatent with maintena    of
stablity withot unduly             subject to   ce l;ng of K14                                                                                 domestic nd  eternal
restricting availability of        nillion at end-IWo compaed to                                                                               financatl otSbility.
credit to privat sector,           en *ctite_d Ill8 oillIon at
and-19S (quprterly credit
cei iltN for 19110 agreed under
parallel DaF td by).
AdJust intereot rot" t.             Increae in comorcial  bent tis.                                        Adopt Interest rate policy for
complee nt pol Icy of mnotery      deposit interest rates of 1-1.t                                         1991 with the objectiv of
restraint and reduce potential     Percentge poInts  in lat  1009g                                         maintaini interest rates
for cpital outflow,                a further increes  in sverag                                            sufficiently high n rel torm.
t;__-depoet rat** of about one
parcentege point since the
January 1990 devaluation.



(page 2 of 10)
Annex V
PAUA .NM   1IA - STM RA. ADAJSTBT LOAN
_____________________________________--_______
P0l?CY KATRIX
Actions Taeen/to be Taken Under the Program
Policy Objcttive                     Act;ion Toa % Already                 0y .lAty 1990 to              Rafer. .olwry 1091 /b                      Follow-t  Actions
bt.mrrl DObIt lt4eng t
frAu'e that external do"           OD"eyenaet to rrein froe                                                Cet;nu  to rfraim froe               s;ntelo i  cautiue iproecb
sorevic obligotne  r_mmoin          Ster.t ce Jrcla  borrmwin                                              .----.... .    ______._..           to externul comercial
noeble.                            to lo190 fe  budgetary                                                 *oetenel    lrcls  borroen           borreoing.
fiancing;  uch brring by-----------------
pubalic cmomwciat entapriase                                           In 199  for budgetary
eacluding Nlinsial Reoure.m
D Cotepwt Corporation (pC)                                             financing. otd lait eUdi
to be lisid to USS sillion                                             ----------------------
during the Mo..                                                        borrowing b, pubtic ceomercial
entrprla   eeacuding NC
during the beer bo
@, Zaprov,t of Pwbi c  _esure ig nt
Pbblc Re rce Ioblizatlon
Re;-  additionl tr   n   we        NW reve  Peian           ree                                            Intruce ne  too a"ouree wit%         stain rvenue rmioing efforst
pert of twe fisca  edjueteeti      aeeetisng be about It of                                                     tn191 budet to gmerste at      ae reuired by fiscel
cffort,                            announeod wslh 1990 budge.                                              I *at (Om ml Mion, coneistent       *itu,ti@n.
with the objective of
sl"ntening a belpn"cd overall
f;ecal poltion.
lrladn the tea bon, Increaee       Soe aeeereteo b*rod   the                                               ComwpIlete mee af aforeid           Continue Wi  effort *ith l19
teo ieeeticity en  reduc.          tea bee tAe,, under I9O0                                                --------    ----- -   b-udg-t.
d     ;iortione in tbe eec ejete   budget,  e.g. introduction of                                           proosal-; ipwlemet tax
awing en disincntieg to            NW Wiotdoin    ;   rgid %40                                              ------ --- -----.
trae, production  nd  eSnga.       o with biet wcifie proposas.                                            eneoure conietent with the_
for ;iplementtion begii----------------_-_----- 
xith  99tl  Sutot, to; increase                                        proposls end the oerall 191
efficac  ot        twation.-- ----                                                 ------- --____ ---
Currently %mvily depwndent on                                          bwdgetry toret.
an *d eslariaa. In _a _in_
.ncoe. fre other eCR.
eageiali  business a       a
(bt y wgndns withholdi.a
tawution ed introducing
presumptive tewalo); toe
capital ge;  an  introduce
brgsd-taaad cweuaption
taawt;on by instituting a
general eucise too and
*n lignitsg d_etic end
intornotionat trade teantion.



(Pe*. 3 of 10)
Annex V
PIAP  UA9   @JIWA - STJUTrUAL ADAZTNS4  LOAN
POLIC MATRIX
Actions Tebon/to be Take.n Under the Prr"e
Policy Objective                     Actions Taken Alredy                  Sy July low0/a                Sforb January 1991 /b                      Follos4lp Actions
Secure adoto retur* for            Higher export te* rates for         Rsvis proosel to sove to        *    t..wi.  level of log *%port        Strengthen 11"t Purchasing
aO.r,,et from .eloitition rf    bhghtr. value too epecie               system, of col lecting  idrect      te".. for 1991 budgt.               Option to sinis.iz  trenefer
Ostartl reo ce   liI.              introduced snd averag  tan          levi-e an loggbig so cD"                                                Priclfle.
meplotinihg due inent;ive. for      reimed to sbout 191 of f.o.b.      payments at bg;Ining of
Pr.;Vat  _oc.                       .51...                             rper tier rather tAn
cotr;butons In kind so at
preeot. and decide en ec;tm*
to be toen.
A revi_ of *;neral end             £velaat fiodoige of the avies.    Obeide on acticos to be takn.         Zeplet *gred actions.
Petroleum tee regimls
completd
lapewe ten eollectien.             Targt estebl eIed to reover                                             mpl_ ent _aarne  to inhane         Deeaine and i;leen  further
at 1ost 1(10 eIIten of                                                 capcitw for reovery of income       pcti;o  to ieprow. tee
espoesed Income box artw re  In                                        ta errre a agreed *twith Sak.   eoI action.
29110.                                                                 including e.ttlag up of so
additioal I ta cowrt. if
neceesary; estebticb targst for
collection of s_eeaeed Incs 
tee st re In 191.                                                           00
go  implementation of              CelN*te Implementatin Of
me_reee agreed with 96ol to        theme  _meres.
erpand capacity for
administration of the now
busin_e sIttbolding tea
introduced under 1990 budgt.
tmrove  oat r_eove r               Prices of tevc   provided by                                            Implmnt the policy of annully    Conti". te ptolicy of annually
Public enerprise  to be                                                re;iming prices of *orvices         reviewing pries of corvice
r;_iema  aally. alloewing                                              Provided by  ublic enoerpr;ise      providd by public emtote4iee
greter sometcl ey in                                                   in light Of caet d41evePente.       in light of cet developeante.
djeeting prrcie  in reepo__  to
cot incrtesee beond the
eoterprlel- control* e.g. dun
to excleng. rate  dJ nt end
Inflation; el*etricity tariff
rcied by 105 In P uber 1909.
Coet recovery t_imu   being        Rnaies *tructre of student          Agre on actions to reduce the       Imleent gred  ectione.
*arined In the Higr                financial enpport to ensare         high, level of aubeidy In
Uucaticn Plan currently under      berficisties of higher              higher education  nd on a
prpepration.                        duestion eontribute to ita        timetable for teir
coet and to strgthen               impleantetion.
incentive for bettor academic
performsen.
Out. on diehel rele d under        Reoview  mt recovery for            Segin impleena_ tion of a*red       Continue lplmentetion of
1990 budget.                       tranaport infraetructure            ectione to ;iprove trensport        enviaobd ection-.
intMn-ct and mei tence.            snctor mot recovery with 19,
budget.



(page 4 of 10)
PAPUA MNi GEFA - SRB RAIL ADAIST?   LOAN                                            Annex  V
POUCY 4ATRIX
Actions Taken/to be Taken Under the Proram
Policy Objective                     Actions Taken AIrady                 8y July lo0 /a                Beor January 1991 hb                      Fol la-IP Actions
Pubic Eipenditare Ilonagemot
Reduce the currently hlgh          Government reached agreement       Contlius Implementation of 1990    Bein fatl implmntetion of           Continue Implementation of
proportion of budgetary            aith FPulic Eploye                 re chmt pro            comple           ------------                   puibil service reetrctaring
resourcee abeorbed by             A_miatlon that will lecly           prearation of mdiu-tero             mdiu_-ter  public service          program; maintain tight contol
administrative expenditures.   l iolt average annual tncresse          oram for reebruturing of                            ------            of  ge and "Ialry bill and
and Improv the structure and       in public employo wagee and        public ervitce, Including a         retracturig proa,                  overlnit administrative
efftivenew   of publc service,   salarles to 4.55 during 1990-2      revie of retnchent                  ------          ---                *%pendItar.
(84.81 In 1990); a selective       compensation (the progrm  ill      Including retrenchmnt of
freez  imposed an new hirna;       complse, labr *lla. proposed       -
wags. saelarie mnd other           ns depsrtmnta  structuresn         targeted nueber of staff (to
employee paonto of nntional        retrenchment mod redeplqon -t
nd prowincial departme             targete, sdi7u-tere  senpower      be agreed with Book). rflecting
oimit d to NW  omillIon in         ceilIng. end memre to
revised 1990 budget; 1,20          strengthen metabislmt              revlie  departmental structuree
public officra Identified for      mngemwnt and Improve   P.nper P
retrecment in 1990, nd             statiics).                         and stffing levels In 1991
iaeantce of sreptlon notce                                             _
nd payent of etrechmnt                                                budgt; limit wge, a* laries
compe_etton strted;
praration of a medium-term                                             nd other employee payents of
program to restructre pubIlc
serIce etrted, with a nuaber                                          national and provincial
of deartmet  ndW activities
identified for restructuring and                                      dep rtments to KISS million in
stff retrsncbmant/roedploy,nt.
1991 budgt.



(page 5 ,f 10)
PAPUA NtE OUDEA - SIRUC1LtAL ADUSP6TM   LOAN
----- _-- - -----_  ---------                                                     Annex  V
POLICY AMArIX
Actiono Taken/to be T iten Under the Pra,
Policy Objective                      Act;eww Taken Alrody                 BP July 19O /a                Sfore January 19I /b                      FPpllow-  Actions
Iarove funding and mnug.mnt        Recrrent budget for 1990            Jsse a polIcy ott      t on          mplent tb- prepared 0U4            Prere and Imp leent DiM
of oerations and _ninttnanc         revised and  gre"d *ith  ank.       adequate funding of DIM with       strategis and guidelines for        strateies and guidolines for
expenditure.                 including raising allocation for   1991 Bodge  Circular,                the indicated mactore in            other major Sectors.
aintena    works;      Icd                                             prepring 1991 budget; aee"
piase  introduction of progro--
oriented budeting to leprovs                                            ith Sanik on 1991 recurrent
bais for rcrrent epediture
pswnning end _nagemat; wcrk                                            budget including raising
strted on prprton of WtM
straei_e end expenditure                                                allocation for maintenance works
Guidelines for agriculture, road
transport. education ed  health                                        to at lwent ISO milIIon;
inatitute a aadiua-tero
emsenditure plan to be updated
aamIly with th  budget.
incorporttng presnt rolling
five-year Pbi tc Instment                                                       I
Progrm (PIP) and ontending
_diua-tu_e  eapenditure pl ining                                                0
to reurrnt eapenditue".
Re;.. public invstnt end            PP for 1990 reduced by                                                  Increae PIP by about 7m in r  l   Further deelop PIP and improew
direct it to priority projea        ( 37 mi  lion as part bof revision                                         s---         --      ---        i   impl_aenttion.
nd progrse.                        of 1990 budgt and ito                                                   term In 1991 budget over
composition ared cith Bank.
rwlued 1990 budget levol  nd
agree on Its copoeition.
Strengthe  eaenditure control       Computerization of  c ting          lame      eircular oa             Maintain rwular monitoring of       Continue implesentation of
to e re  ep   dittur-o _I eyeim an  budgt prepereti-t                  explnditure control procedures;     expenditure. taking particular      ewnisgd actions.
nistnt with budgeted                empleted in Janury  990;            renforce   nthly and qarterly    care to enure final quarter
provision end misapplication of    hi-losul miniterial committee    reviw  of budget prformunce            cemit_ant  nd  P spnditurn are
fund  is *ini-ixsd.                 est_bli;ed  to overeeo             betwen  DFP and epndino             consistent with warranted funde;
impleantation of apenditure        dparteento.                         initista  preparation of annual
cute and ralocatiope in                                                financitl reporte by spending
rewi_d 1990 budgt; OFP                                                 dcpartaento.
circular on rewised 1990 budgt
tergat, lrmed to deart_mnto
and agenies; strengthening of
Inmptctions Branch initiated.



(Page 6 of 10)
Annex V
PAM  mm OJVA - STRAL ADJUPW ET LOa
POLJCY PATRIX
Actions Taltn/to be Talton Urhder the Proprm
Policy Objective                      Action Taken Already                  By JuIy 1990 /a                Before Janury 1991 /b                      Follo-k* Action
ut price support to                I am Scheme for coa                                                      Review with  an  rwor    an         Cooplet reform of e_tdity
agricultural cdity                  lintrodced is Janury 1990 to                                             rationaliring  egriculturat          etobiI I cti on funds.
stabe IIetion f*nda, r duci;n       ph_  oat price suwport within                                            price ebillation policy
burden oan budgetry reuree r            years; a etudy beinr                                                 under ADO Progr      n, and
end inducing producer to            initiated under the ADS ten                                              agree on any furher ectione
become ceogtitive at world          to underpia bror reform of rnecery.
pricee.  (Coered by the AS          c_ity staoilization policy.
Progrem Loan).
Institutional Rform and Crpecity  Juldg
AlleVIate  Worte" of ehill d        A Hationel Training Policy (tP) (     egin full inmlementation of        Continue iplemwntstion af WtP.    Continue itplentation of NTP
ewteff.prepred to strengthen                                             WP.
in-osruice  rainin; preparatory
work subatantially cePlated faor
iaplupunfttion of three key
con ents af NtW: enuacine
capacity of Departent of                                                                                                                                Vl
Pereannal Wnaent to oversee
and eordin ate NWP
ieplementtion; three-year
training prras    for individual
line department.; and
stengtheing *nd reorientine
training progreme at Adcol.
Preparation of a Higher             Couple  preparation of lEI.         Begin full lapleentetion of          Continue iple_mntation of HEP.
Eduection Plan (HEP) aimd at                                            KP.
inprowing efficiency end
relewnce of higher-level
proe-ervice training
subentially coupleted.
Instructions ieutd                 Couplete Stream ining of            Hakn adjustment  In
establishing liits on tie           appointwant proceduree for          coup enstion of sch staff in
taken up at venous etegoe of        personnel, Including                 light af this review, subject
recruitmnt process.                  onulnt; review                     to agreed celling on total
coupnnation. Including hroing       goernment *eae and salary
needs, of specialied staff at       bill.
upper levels.



(pag 7 of 10)
PAM  NEW WANEA - S 5JCT13AL ADJSTN IrAN                                             Annex  V
Action Takelt/o be Taen Wader te Progrrw
Policy Objectivs                     Actions Taken Alredy                 b, July IWO/a                 Bere January 199  /b                      Piolow-1i   Acl e 
Stpedite prpepration an            A ne  project cycle pates          Complete revew of f...ibi I tTy     Coplete a. Iabldmnt of the         Contine effort to atrengthen
Implementation of doeeipmnt        prepared and approvd by    .       stuNC  statue and land             project preparation and             capabilIties of Ine
projects ad prograV   its installation cose_scad;    acquisition r"ifremants of *a1                       iwlreeatatTon monItorl             dcpartssnt to prepare and
a review of feaibility study       project  in 1t0-94 PIP;            aehANimi complete                   implement development project
sttus  nd land tqisition           initiate  tWs to establish  n                 -                        and Progm  in accordancs with
requrXemts of alIl projets In    effective projec preparation         Ietallation of the Pew projct    secbor strateies.
1990-94 PIP initiated.             aNW Implementation sonitoring
.eeantiasl extend ue of            cycle system  take all  *r"
standard contract doven*t;
prepare and aubit to Par lTant   nece"ry to enre satiefToy
draft leislation to raise           mplementation of aforeid
ce IIng (to KS mIIion) for         legTilation.
project contre  that ca be
wrded withut reqiring
approvl of INC , State
SolieTeor and Governor Genral
and to *xpe dte approval of loan
agreent betwen aov*rnmnt
and eaternat donors; provide
fntk with report shing
satisfactory progres on
indxtalation of the new project
eycle System.



(Pago a of 10)
PAPUA NEW (UINEA - STRUCTURAL ADJUCTMhT  LOAN                                  Annex  V
POLICY MATRIX
Actions Taken/to be Talen Under the Program
Policy Objective                      Actions Taken Already                  By July 1990 /a               Before January 1991 /b                      Follom-Up Actions
Strengthen inetitutional            A comprehenive foreotry eector       Adopt an administrative             Begin Implementation of the now      Continue ;Iplementetion of
capacity for maonagement of         report, led by Bank. prepared        structure for foreetry              adminietrative structure for         forestry sector adamnistretive
forest resources.                   under auspices of Tropical           conaistent with the                 forestry. including coepletion       reform and caopcity building
Forestry Action Plan (TRAP); a      r*cosmendatione of TFAP report.    of de ;gn of the now forestry          effort.
TFAP round table confrence hold                                          aervice, and appointment of a
In April 1990 to diecueo the                                             National Forestry Board,
snt;on plan propomed by tho                                              deterineo end begin Monitoring
report and donor aseistance in                                           of ollowablo loging levels.
it. implementation.
C.  Promotion of Nonm;ngnq Private Sector
Wage and Exchange Rate Policieo
Improve international               Xina devalued by 10t on January                                          Agree on exchange rate pQolicy       Cont;nue to pursue a responsiv 
competitivenese of nonmining        9, 199.                                                                            ------ ----------          exchange rate policy.
4ecnoy,.                                                                                                     for 199.
Full Ind-eat;on of wageo for                                             Sattefactory implementation of       Further actions as needed to
Inflation up to 6S p.s. ovor                                             ------------- -                      Introduce greater flexibility
the next three years to apply                                            ogreed sage policy In 1990 end       in wae  determination.
to oiniwum wgee only, and                                                ----___-________________-
subject to employers' capecity                                           continuation of agreed wage
to Pay; higher- level wage  to                                           ---------- ------
be determined through                                                    policy in 1991.
negotiations; ofreement reached                                          --------
with Public E ployse
Aemociation that sill limit
incrase in wage  *nd  ttlorlee
of public employees to an
averaget of 8-8   1 In 199o;
ovwernment advising private
sector to ex;erise simitar maps
restraint.



(Pago 9 of 10)
PAPtA NWI GJIA - STRUCTUR. AD UThKWT LOa                                               Annex  V
POLICY MATRIX
Actions Tcken/to be Taken Under tho Proram
Policy Objective                      Action. Taken Already                  by July 1990 /a               Before January 1991 /b                      Follow-Up Actlons
Inveetmnt Rgulation
Streemi ne regulations and          Dta iled propoeale for refore        Approval by NBC of reform           lapimntation of pproved             Ensure effective functioning of
procedure  overning foreign         prepared includifeip                 propo_al- and a tie_table for       -----        ----        -           the now system.
in_eetment,                         rorgnni;zmntg the inatitutional      smplementation acceptable to        meaure In l;in with egreed
frmework (e.g., triming NWA         Bank.                                -------------------------
regulatory functione),                                                   timetable.
streamlining procaduree end
liberal ting criteri; for
inveotmnt approval; mnd
eetabli;hing a n_ Institution
for inveetmnt prootieon.
Privatization
Encourag  private aector            A comproonaelw lest of public       ben Implementation oa                Continu  impl_mentation of          Coplote implementation of the
developent. improve efficiency      inve_tw nto for Privatization/       comercallzation/privatiation        -     --         -o--------          prgrm.
of operationo, and reducc           liquidation dran up for NEC          of identified public services.      commercimlioation/privatizmtion
public *ector Involvement in        conelderation, including
commrcial activities that can       proposals for institutional                                              of identified public servicee;
be performd by private *ector.      arrangeto facilitating                                                    ----
implemntation of thil progros;                                          approval by NE of a program for
NW approved comercialiiatiion/                                           -----------------------------
privatization of everal public                                           privatizaionfliquidmtion of
services currently performd by                                           ------ - ---- - ------
ove rnMnt departmnt.                                                     public investmnt. acceptable to
bank, including a Precce
identiiiction of compan;oe
covered by the program and a
timntable for implemntation;
begin full impleentation of
thie prorm.



(page 10 of 10)
PARA NEW  OJXNEA - STRUCTIIAL ADJATM4T LON                                               Annex  V
POUCY NATRIX
Actions Taken/to be Taken lMder the Program
Policy Objective                        Actions Taken Already                   By July 1910 /a                Before January 1991 lb                        Pollw-lUp Actions
Pinancinl Sctoer Devlopmenb
Increase eavinge *nd improve         Increac ;n Intereet rat.. as                                                Intnreat rnte policy sctronc *a
*llocatien of financial               indicated *bowe.                                                           indicated *bove.
Strengthen tt- rural credit          A study of the rural credit                                                 Review with Bank progr*m  on          Ioplmntation of further
system.  (Covered by ADO             systea being initiated under                                                rural credit refore under ABS         neceaery actions.
Progra  Loan).                        the ADO Lan to serve as bac ;                                              Proram  Loan and  grge  on any
for reform.                                                                further *ctione necesary.
Irade Policy
Imrove efficiency of dometic         Rei wed with bank Specific                                                  Co"mlete review of aforecaid          Continue troda policy reform as
production  nd direct                 propaols to- replace, In a                                                 propoele; Implement aotion.           noeded.
reourcee  in line with               #hased manner. nontariff                                                    aereed with Bank to replace                                                         I
comparative  advantage,              barriers with teriffe; and                                                  non- tariff barrier. with
rationalize tariff structure by                                            tariff. and rationalize the                                                        Un
replacing non- protective                                                  tariff etructure.
tariffs with general eacises                                                                                                                                   I
(as noted above) and limiting
use of tariffs to protective
purpos  only. with provisions
to avoid distortione ageinat
exportS,
Becision taken not to impose                                                                                     Rtview finding  of industry
ban on log exporte until                                                                                         *tudtee as basis for
neceesry industwy feasbility                                                                                     formulsting policy on too
studios are comploted.                                                                                           *rporte and encouragemnt of
deetic proc"ting.



t ? - . r 5Xt,s, ~~I R I A N J A YA ( I N D O N E S I A )
_v_   _~~~~----             --         --!---.-t-                                                         -- 
- -_ --- -  - - --  - - -X                                           \ -                                                         ,
st        <~~~              ~      ~~------- ---------------- j 
\ t i : 2 1~~~~~~~~~--------------------------<
! __--_    g   V                                         t\          f - --------
I              g                        %                          #t' 1      -           ; ---------  - ------
|.. .... ------------------2
t  t              |              _                    |       ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~    4~
I                   N                      aa   W                      I                    ;~~~~~~~~~
. ; Uri lillill ; . b, ' gt - * 
G)



