Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13994
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3218-PNG)
FEBRUARY 27, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit           = Kina (K)
US$1.00                 = .860 K (end-1989)
US$1.00                 = .974 K (end-Sept. 1993)
K 1.00                  = 1.163 US$ (end-1989)
K 1.00                  = 1.019 US$ (end-1993)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ACRONYMS
AIDAB      -    Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
CCFF       -    Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility
GDP        -    Gross Domestic Product
GOPNG    -    Government of PNG
ICR        -    Implementation Completion Report
IMF        -    International Monetary Fund
IPA        -    Investment Promotion Agency
O&M        -    Operations and Maintenance
PNG        -    Papua New Guinea
SAL        -    Structural Adjustment Loan
SIP        -    Special Interventions Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U. S. A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                   February 27, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Papua New Guinea
Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 3218-PNG)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Papua New Guinea: Structural Adjustment
Loan (Loan 3218-PNG), prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, with Part II,
prepared by the Borrower.
The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), for an amount of US$50 million, was approved in
June, 1990, and closed in June 1993, a year after its original closing date. The loan was made in
support of the Government's efforts to undertake a program of macroeconomic stabilization and
structural reforms, following major economic shocks from domestic and external sources. The
reform program had three major objectives: (a) financial stabilization; (b) improvement of public
resource management. and (c) promotion of the non-mining private sector. In early 1990, the
Government devaluated the currency and instituted macroeconomic reforms by tightening government
spending. The public management program aimed at strengthening the tax base, improving tax
collection, as well as cost recovery. Expenditure reform was designed to trim the wage bill through
civil service reform and to institute budgetary controls, allowing a favorable change in composition of
public expenditure. The promotion of the private sector was to be undertaken through investment
promotion, regulatory reform, and trade liberalization.
The PCR indicates that there were only moderate delays in substantially meeting the SAL
conditions, but that the operation was not successful in meeting its objectives as the reforms did not
take root. Although the loan supported a successful short-term stabilization operation, it did not
initiate the expected extended process of economic reform. The PCR attributes this failure to a
combination of design flaws (including an underestimation of the extent of adjustment required to
achieve some of the objectives), and lack of sufficiently widespread support for the reforms,
particularly as new oil and gold revenues eased the financial pressure for immediate reform.
Based on the PCR assessment, the project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory and its
sustainability as unlikely. The institutional development impact of the operation is rated as modest.
The PCR quality is satisfactory.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3218-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  i
Evaluation Summary .iii
PART 1. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                              I
A. Project Identity .
B. Background .1
C.  Objectives of Reforms ... .....................1....... 
D. Implementation of Reforms.                                                       5
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                             6
F. Impact of the Loan.                                                              7
G. Assessment of Outcome  ..............................                            10
H. Role of the Bank .12
I. Loan Administration and Coordination .13
Part II. BORROWER'S COMMENTS .15
Part 111. LOAN DATA .17
ANNEX I: MAJOR ECONOMIC POLICY REFORMS, 1990-93 .18
ANNEX II: STATISTICAL TABLES    ..20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PAPUA NEW GUINEA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (LOAN 3218-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Structural Adjustment Program in Papua
New Guinea, for Xhich Loan 3218-PNG in the amount of US$50 million was approved by the Board of
Directors of the Bank on Junle 5. 199() and made effective on October 4, 1990. The loan was closed on
June 30, 1993. compared wvith the original closing date of June 30, 1992. The first tranche, released upon
effectiveness, was fully disbursed by December 6, 1990. Of the second tranche, US$23 million was
released on December 20. 1991 and was fully disbursed by December 23, 1991. The remaining $2 million
wvas set aside to support techniical assistance under the SAL, and resulted in the extension of the original
closing date of the loan, it was fully disbursed by January 8, 1993.
This PCR was prepared by the Countny Operations Division, Country Department 3, East Asia
and Pacific Region. The Borrower provided comments that are incorporated in Part 11.
Preparation of this PCR was undertaken during the Economic Mission to PNG in November
1993. The report is based Uponi the President's Report. Supenrision Reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower. internal Banlk memorandum and annual Countnr Economic Memorandum
prepared during the period of the loan.



I



EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.         Introduction. Following some years of promising growth in the mid-1980s, the PNG
economy faced major shocks in 1989 when the giant Bougainville mine closed due to local civil unrest
and the country's external terms of trade began a steep, extended drop. While these shocks obliged the
Government to undertake a strong stabilization program, they also presented an opportunity to begin
addressing certain long-standing structural impediments to PNG's growth and national development. The
Loan being reviewed in this Report represented the Bank's attempt to underwrite this effort.
2.         Around the end of 1989, the Government of PNG approached the Bank, the International
Monetary Fund, and other agencies regarding support for a program to address their potentially-
destabilizing situation. The Government quickly assembled a program of stabilization and structural
adjustment that could be supported by the aid donor community. At the forefront of the stabilization
component of this package were two consecutive stand-by programs from the International Monetary
Fund and drawings under the IMF's Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility. The main
structural adjustment components of the program comprised this Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL); an
agricultural sector program loan from the Asian Development Bank; a structural adjustment program
grant from the European Economic Community; and complementary assistance from the Japanese and
Australian Governments. Total commitments of such special assistance amounted to some US$360
million in 1989-91; of this, the Bank's contribution was relatively small, being roughly 1/7th of the total.
3.         Objectives. The program comprised three broad themes: (a) financial stabilization; (b)
improvement of public resource management; and (c) promotion of the private non-mining sector. To
preserve financial stability, the Government devalued the kina by 10% at an early date (on January 9,
1990, just before Appraisal) and undertook substantial fiscal adjustment supported by the two consecutive
IMF stand-by programs. The authorities followed-up with an appropriately tight wage policy that had
two main aims: first, to hold down government current spending; and second, to minimize pass-through
effects of the January 1990 devaluation.
4.         To improve public resource management, the Government undertook significant measures
on both the revenue and expenditure sides of the fiscal accounts. On revenues, the program aimed to:
broaden the tax base; strengthen tax collection through withholding taxes and recovery of tax arrears;
reform the external trade regime; and improve cost recovery. On expenditures, a major restructuring was
undertaken. Concerning current spending, the wages and salaries bill was to be trimmed by the restrained
wage policy noted above, by a freeze on most new hirings, by retrenchment of staff and by natural
attrition. There was to be improved funding of operations and maintenance (O&M) spending in key
sectors; expenditure controls were to be strengthened; and price support to agricultural commodity funds
was to be phased-out. On capital spending, resources were to be directed to priority programs; large real
increases in investment spending were to be undertaken; and certain legislative and institutional reforms
were to be taken to improve project selection and implementation.
5.         To promote the private non-mining sector, coordinated wage and exchange rate policies were
expected to lead to a marked improvement in the competitiveness of the PNG economy. In addition, the
Government undertook institutional reform of the regulatory framework governing foreign direct
investment and expedited the early stages of its program of privatization. It also set up a joint (public



iv
and private sector) committee to advise on regulatory reform, and initiated a phased reform of quantitative
restrictions in the external trade regime.
6.          Implementation Experience and Results. This operation was quite successful in meeting
the conditions--and immediate objectives--of the Loan.  On stabilization, the Government met, or
substantially met, all of the Loan's policy criteria. Success in this regard is particularly notable as
concerns Government's performance under the two consecutive IMF stand-bys; it was not necessary tor
the Government to draw on either of the available stand-bys, and virtually all the performance criteria
were observed for both arrangements.
7.          Regarding public resource management, the Government achieved striking successes in the
1991 Budget in the area of tax reform and trade policy. These mainly comprised: (a) phased introduction
of a general excise tax on domestic manufacturing; (b) new withholding taxes to broaden the tax base;
(c) elimination of a wide range of import duties on non-competing inputs into the productive sector; and
(d) immediate replacement of some import bans by tariffs coupled with the announcement of a schedule
to replace all remaining bans by tariffs by 1994.
8.          There was also encouraging evidence of progress on the expenditure side of the fiscal
accounts. Spending on O&M increased appreciably in 1991; important legislation was passed to expedite
contracts associated with loan agreements with external donors; a new expenditure control system was
introduced in mid-1991; agreements were in place to phase-out subsidies to commodity support programs;
and spending on the public investment program appeared to be on a sharply rising trend. However,
results were more mixed on trimming administrative spending and on civil service reform. For example,
real wages of public employees declined significantly and retrenchment of public servants was well above
target in 1990. But, achieving a lasting reduction in the size of the civil service proved to be more
difficult than expected; the initial decline was smaller than intended, and it could not be sustained beyond
1991.
9.          In the area of promotion of the private non-mining sector, some encouraging progress was
recorded at an early stage, but it was not sufficient to generate the required supply and investment
response.   Most significantly, the competitive gains from the January 1990 devaluation have been
preserved, owing in large part to restrained monetary and wage policies. But, in hindsight, the gains
were insufficient to compensate for the loss of PNG's uncompetitiveness. There was also notable--albeit
somewhat delayed--reform of the foreign investment regime, as the out-moded National Investment
Development Agency was replaced by the Investment Promotion Authority. Some delays were also
encountered in the privatization package, but in July 1991 the Cabinet approved a wide-ranging package
that initialized early stages of the process of privatization, commercialization, corporatization and
consolidation of public enterprises.
10.         Sustainability. Despite only moderate delays in meeting, or substantially meeting, all of
the SAL policy conditions, this operation was not successful in achieving the objectives of the Loan, as
the reforms did not take root as deeply as anticipated.  Consequently, the major issues with
implementation of these reforms concern their sustainability and effectiveness, which are summarized in
the following paragraphs.
II.          This Loan was intended to be only the beginning of a long process of economic reform
in PNG, but it was largely ineffective in this regard. In substantial part, this result stems from certain
design features of the SAL itself. For example, it seems that the extent of the adjustment required to
achieve certain of the objectives (eg, sustainable growth of the private non-mining sector) was
significantly underestimated (see below for further discussion). But in addition, some of the internal
momentum for reform was lost around the time of release of the first tranche; as mentioned, there were



v
moderate delays in release of the second tranche; and some important components of the SAL reforms
were reversed after release of the second tranche.
12.        To its credit, the PNG Government was able to continue the momentum of rejbrm in some
areas, despite interruptions occasioned by national elections at mid-1992. Most importantly, a major step
was taken to de-regulate wage-setting arrangements through the Minimum Wage Board's decision in
August 1992.  In other areas, there was a significant easing of foreign exchange controls, and a
parliamentary committee presented its recommendations on reform of provincial governments.
13.         However, these positive developments were largely overshadowed by, a lack of sustainability
as regards several other reforms undertaken during the SAL. One of the more notable areas concerns
reforms in tax and trade policy. The manufacturers' sales tax (introduced in the 1991 Budget) could not
be implemented, the announced schedule for removing import bans was not pursued in subsequent
Budgets and some new trade restrictions were introduced. Moreover, the Budget for 1993, which
announced "supply-side" tax cuts of the order of 2 % of GDP, effectively reversed several of the tax and
trade reforms undertaken under the Loan. For example, the non-mining tax base was significantly
narrowed; dependence upon import duties was increased; the base for cost recovery was narrowed; and
the indirect tax system was tilted even more in favor of production for the domestic market, rather than
for export.
14.        In other areas, reforms also lacked sustainability. On the side of fiscal expenditures, there
has not been the compositional change that had been sought: O&M spending has dropped off markedly
from its 1991 levels; the new expenditure control mechanism has proven to he largely ineffective in
containing expenditure overruns at year-end; and spending on commodity support programs has increased
markedly. On investment promotion, the privatization initiative, and civil service reform, progress has
been irregular, marked by setbacks and generallv slow. With further regard to privatization and civil
service reform, little of real substance had been achieved two years after initialization of the respective
processes.  Also, it should be noted that there are indications that PNG's successes in the area of
stabilization are also proving to be unsustainahle. Despite significantly higher tax revenues from oil
production, the fiscal deficit has widened progressively in recent years, and domestic debt is increasing
rapidly. Mirroring these developments, the balance of payments has deteriorated markedly.
15.        Reasons for Lack of Sustainability. Certain design features of this Loan contributed to
lack of sustainability of the SAL's reforms. For instance, sustaining the momentum of reform might have
been easier had the Loan concentrated on a few key areas where the PNG authorities had greater on-
going leverage (for instance, in improving competitiveness, in reforming trade and tax policy, and in
restructuring expenditures). As specifically concerns competitiveness, perhaps if structural reforms had
been undertaken against the backdrop of a more aggressive exchange rate policy, the resulting
improvements to competitiveness would have better supported sustainablility of reforms. Also on design
features, the SAL's timetable for implementation of retorms appears to have been excessively optimistic
in some areas.
16.        A second, important factor contributing to the lack of sustainability was the earlier-than-
expected influx of fiscal revenues from news oil and gold projects. To be sure, these revenues were partly
offset by higher-than-expected costs of security operations (including those on Bougainville). But, on
balance, the prospect of significantly greater resource revenues eased the immediate financial pressure
on the Government and contributed to a more relaxed attitude toward reform on the part of the
authorities.
17.        Third, the new Government (which assumed office just after the middle of 1992) felt little
proprietorship for the reform program of the previous administration and soon launched its own bold



vi
program of economic expansion in pursuit of a different policy agenda. Also at the political level, time-
consuming parliamentary processes were an unanticipated cause of delay in the implementation of some
policies (eg, passage of the IPA-enabling legislation).
18.         Key Lessons Learned. There are many lessons to be learned from the Bank's experience
with this Loan. Most importantly, it seems that achieving a wide, sustainable consensus on the need for
reform in PNG is likely to be very difficult, except perhaps in an atmosphere of serious financial
difficulties. Second, it seems that initial steps--particularly those directly affecting competitiveness-should
have been far holder.
19.         On matters related to technical design, it seems in retrospect that more attention could have
been paid to thefeasibility of implementing certain of the envisaged reforms, most notably reform of the
civil service. Two points should be made in this regard. First, civil service reform has turned out to be
a much more difficult area of reform than appears to have been anticipated during appraisal. To be
effective, more broad-based commitment to reform was needed on the part of the PNG Government; more
technical background studies (eg, a public expenditure review) should have been undertaken prior to
negotiations; and supervision could have been more intense.
20.         Second, without some deeper technical analysis, the basis for certain of the reforms appears
to have been somewhat unclear. This is particularly the case as regards the targets tor net downsizing
of the civil service, which became virtually unattainable in the light of the high priority subsequently
attached to improving delivery of certain basic services in, for example, health, education, and law and
order. Subsequent analysis suggests that the larger problem is the relatively high level of public sector
wages, not the size of the civil service.
21.         On technical matters related to design of the Loan, several of the Loan's conditions tor
tranche release were specified in terms of budgeted amounts of spending. In the event, actual spending
would have been a more relevant indicator of performance. Finally, it seems that the SAL should have
included a conditionality clause related to the introduction of new restrictive trade policies.
22.         At present, there are no plans to undertake further structural adjustment loans to PNG.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3218)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name                :Structural Adjustment Loan
Loan No.            :3218-PNG
RVP Unit           :Africa Region
Country            :Papua New Guinea
Sector              :Balance of Payments Support
B. Backaround
1.         Following several years of slow growth in the first half of the 1980s, the PNG
economy picked up between 1985 and 1988, owing mainly to development of the nation's
mineral wealth and to a recovery of agriculture. However, these promising developments came
to an abrupt halt in 1989 when the giant Bougainville mine closed due to local civil unrest and
the country's external terms of trade began a steep drop (see text Table 1). These shocks, which
were of major proportions by international standards of the 1980s, obliged the Government to
undertake a strong stabilization program. However, they also presented an opportunity for the
Government (in conjunction with the aid donor community) to begin addressing certain long-
standing structural impediments to growth and development. The Loan whose implementation
is being reported in this Report, represents the Bank's attempt to underwrite this effort.
2.         On June 5, 1990, the Bank's Executive Board approved this Structural Adjustment
Loan. The Loan, which was in the amount of US$50 million, was to be disbursed in two
tranches. The first tranche of US$25 million was released upon loan effectiveness in October
1990 and the second tranche of US$23 million was released in December 1991, roughly half a
year behind schedule. The remaining US$2 million was set aside as financing for technical
assistance in support of implementation of the adjustment program; it was fully disbursed by
June 1992.
C. Objectives of the Reforms
3.          As detailed in the President's Report,l/ this Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL)
was made in support of the Government's stabilization and structural adjustment program that
was undertaken in response to the shocks noted above. In this capacity, the SAL was only one
1/   "Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Structural Adjustment Loan to the
Independent State of Papua New Guinea", World Bank Report No. P-5307-PNG, dated May 10,
1990.



component of a much larger package of quick-disbursing assistance. At the forefront of the
stabilization component of this package were two consecutive stand-by programs from the
International Monetary Fund,2/ and drawings under the IMF's Compensatory and Contingency
Financing Facility. The main structural components of the program comprised this SAL; an
agricultural sector program loan from the Asian Development Bank; a structural adjustment
program grant from the European Economic Community; and complementary assistance from
the Japanese and Australian Governments. In total, commitments of such special assistance
amounted to some US$360 million in 1989-91 as support for the Government's program. Of
this amount, the Bank's contribution was relatively small, approximately 1/7th of the total. As
main objectives, the program  comprised three broad themes: (a) financial stabilization; (b)
improvement of public resource management; and (c) promotion of the private non-mining sector
(see next page).
4.          Financial Stahilization.   To preserve financial stability, substantial fiscal
adjustment was envisaged, underpinned to a great extent by the IMF stand-by arrangements.
The Government aimed to achieve virtual balance (excluding certain expenditures to counter the
social costs of adjustment; see at the end of this Section) in the overall budget for 1990 and
1991, compared with deficits of 4 percent and 3 percent of GDP that were anticipated in the
absence of any adjustment measures.  As the main instrument to achieve this result, total
expenditures were to he reduced by some 2 1/4 percent of GDP. Expansion of domestic credit
was to be restrained (to 4 1/4 percent during 1990 versus 11 1/2 percent during 1989), and
overall monetary conditions were to be tightened, as evidenced by rising time deposit rates.
Consistent with these policies, the Government decided to refrain from external commercial
borrowing for general budgetary financing, and to keep such borrowing by public enterprises
within strict limits.
5.          At an early stage of its stabilization program (on January 9, 1990, just before Loan
Appraisal), the Government devalued the kina by 10 percent, and agreed to a mid-term review
of exchange rate policy. Very shortly after (on January 26, 1990), the Government followed-up
by entering into agreement with the Public Employees Association whereby the average real
wage in the public sector would decline by about 4 percent in 1990, and by a little more in the
subsequent years of the three-year agreement. The Government also agreed to strengthen its
efforts to reduce the extent of minimum wage indexation in the economy. This restrictive
approach to wage policy was expected to hold down the inflationary effects of the January 1990
devaluation as might be transmitted through wage awards in PNG's private sector which tend
to mirror increases in the public sector.
2/    The first IMF stand-by covered the period April 1990-June 1991. A second covered the period
July 31, 1991-September 30, 1992. Both were largely of a precautionary nature. The  CCFF
purchase was effective on May 1, 1990.



- 3 -
Table 1: PAPUA NEW GUINEA: BASIC ECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1985-93
1985-88    1989    1990       1991      1992      1993
Growth and Inflation
(% change, per annum)
Real GDP                          3.6    -1.4       -3.0       9.5      11.8      14.4
Mineral (incl. oil)            18.3   -37.9      22.9       41.9      56.0      63.8
Nonmineral                      1.8     4.9       -5.6       5.2       3.8       1.1
Consumer price index              4.1      4.5       6.9       7.0       4.3       4.5
Fixed Investment/GDP
(as %)                         20.6    26.0      25.1       28.0      23.8      20.4
Of which:
private non-mining              8.7      9.6       8.6       7.4       7.5       6.8
Public Finance
(as % of GDP)
Total revenue & grants           29.7    33.3       32.1      28.5      27.2      25.5
Revenue                         22.5    27.1      24.9      22.5      22.4      21.6
Grants                          7.2     6.2        7.2       8.6       4.7       3.9
Total expenditure                31.3    34.4       35.4      32.9      32.8      31.8
Current                        27.0    30.0       30.4      28.7      28.8      27.4
Capital                         4.2     4.5        5.0       4.2       4.0       4.4
Overall balance                  -1.6    -1.2       -3.3      -1.8      -5.6      -6.3
Money and Credit
(% change, per annum)
Broad Money                       9.8      6.5       4.3      17.7      12.6      10.8/a
Credit to:
Private sector                 14.5     9.6        1.6      12.9       4.4       1.9/a
Public sector (net)           -48.6    95.0      83.1       53.1      39.6/a
Balance of Payments
(% change per annum)
Exports (fob)                    12.5   -10.2       -9.5      23.9      22.5      32.6
Mineral                        28.4   -20.5        0.4      33.1      34.7      24.7
Imports (fob)                    10.0    -2.7    -17.8        26.8      -5.8      -8.4
Terms of trade(l993=I 00)       123.7   110.4       95.7      98.7      97.4     100.0
Nonmineral                    128.4    92.9      69.3       77.7      82.7     100.0
Current account balance
(as % of GDP)                    -6.9   -10.4       -3.0      -6.6      -2.4       8.7
Of which: Non-mining
(as % of GDP)                 -17.4   -17.0    -12.1         ...    -16.7    -11.7
Gross reserves (eop)
(in millions of US$)            588         398       403       318       238       222
(in months of non-
mineral imports)                  6.5      4.7       5.0       3.6       2.7       2.7
External debt service
(as % of exports)                25.8    32.1       39.5      32.1      34.7      39.5
Of which: public               13.1    14.4       17.7      12.8       8.9       6.2
Source: Data provided by PNG authorities and staff estimates.
/a Scptember 1993 relative to December 1992.



- 4 -
6.         Improving Public Resource Management. On the side of revenues, the program
aimed at measures to: broaden the tax base, mainly by the introduction of a manufacturers' sales
tax (which was to be the first step towards a broad-based consumption tax); reform of the
external trade regime (which was already fairly liberal); strengthening of tax collection through
effective implementation of withholding taxes and recovery of assessed income tax arrears; and
improved cost recovery by, inter alia, timely adjustment of public utility prices and better cost
recovery in transportation.
7.          On expenditures, a major restructuring was undertaken. The wages and salaries
bill was to be trimmed by a restrained wage award (see Financial Stabilization, above), a freeze
on most new hirings, retrenchment of staff, and by natural attrition. Taken together, these last
two items were expected to result in a net reduction of some 2,200 staff (some 4 3/4 percent of
the civil service). Over the medium-term, a broader, on-going restructuring program was
envisaged for reform  of the civil service.  Also on current expenditures, there was to be
improved funding and management of operations and maintenance (O&M) spending in key
sectors; expenditure controls were to be strengthened; and price support to agricultural
commodity funds was to be phased-out under the Asian Development Bank agriculture sector
program loan. On capital spending, available resources were to be directed to priority projects
and programs; large real increases in investment spending were to be undertaken; and certain
legislative and institutional reforms were to be taken to expedite evaluation, preparation and
implementation of projects.
8.          Promotion of the Private Non-Mining Sector.  An important element of the
strategy to promote the private sector was coordinated wage and exchange rate policies (see
above). The combination of a restrictive public sector wage policy and a nominal devaluation
of the kina was expected to lead to a marked improvement in the competitiveness of the PNG
non-mining economy.  In addition, the Government undertook institutional reform  of the
regulatory framework governing foreign direct investment (the National Investment Development
Authority).  Furthermore, the Government expedited the early stages of its program  of
privatization; it set up a high-level joint (public and private sector) committee to advise on
regulatory reform;3/ and it initiated a phased reform of quantitative restrictions in the external
trade regime, noted above. Moreover, under an Asian Development Bank Program Loan, a
study was undertaken to address issues related to rural credit.
9.          Implementation and Monitoring. To facilitate implementation and monitoring of
the Program, the Government was to set up an inter-Departmental Working Group on Structural
Adjustment Implementation which, inter alia, was to prepare quarterly progress reports on the
Program.
10.        Mitigating the Social Costs of Adjustment.  To mitigate the social costs of
adjustment, the Government's program of adjustment included two key elements. First, in
allocating fiscal expenditure cuts, basic services and programs aimed at disadvantaged groups
and poorer areas were to be protected. Second, the Government (supported by the Bank in
conjunction with other members of the aid donor community) prepared a special program of
interventions on an accelerated basis, aimed specifically at offsetting the social costs of
3/   This commnittee, which was a very successful initiative in the early phase of structural adjustment,
was known as the Government Regulations Advisory Committee (GRAC).



adjustment through, inter alia, projects in housing and public works, improvement of health
facilities, and small industry development.4/
D. Implementation of Reforms
11.         As documented in various other sources,5/ this operation was quite successful in
meeting the Loan's conditions (which are summarized in Annex I). On stabilization, the
Government met, or substantially met, all of the Loan's conditions. Success in this regard is
particularly notable as concerns Government's performance under the two consecutive IMF
stand-bys; it was not necessary for the Government to draw on either of the available stand-bys,
and virtually all the performance criteria were observed for both arrangements.6/ Inflation was
held well below the target level; official international reserves were maintained at prudent levels
(despite early repayment of an external commercial loan in late 1990); there was no external
commercial borrowing during the period of the Loan; and recovery of the non-mining economy
began in 1991 (see text Table 1 and Section D). The only notable slippage in the stabilization
area concerned the Government's fiscal targets. However, this slippage was small relative to
the SAL's targets,7/ and a significant proportion of the slippage was accounted for by a
weaker-than-expected non-minerals economy (which resulted in revenue shortfalls) and by
stepped-up security expenditures, including on operations related to the Bougainville situation.
12.         Regarding public resource management, the Government achieved striking
successes in the 1991 Budget in the area of tax reform and trade policy. These mainly
comprised: (a) a general excise tax on domestic manufacturing, covering a selected range of
products in 1991, but to be extended to cover all products in 1992; (b) new withholding taxes
to reach incomes from sources other than the formal sector payroll; (c) the elimination of a wide
range of import duties on non-competing inputs into the productive sector; and (d) immediate
replacement of some import bans by tariffs coupled with the announcement of a schedule for
replacement of remaining bans by tariffs in a phased manner by 1994.
13.         There was also encouraging evidence of progress on the expenditure side of the
fiscal accounts. Spending on operations and maintenance (O&M) increased appreciably in 1991;
4/    The resulting Special Interventions Project was presented to the Executive Board in Report No. P-
5426-PNG, dated November 27, 1990.
5/    See: "Papua New Guinea" Structural Adjustment, Growth and Human Resource Development",
World Bank Report No. 9396-PNG, dated May 1, 1991; "Papua New Guinea--Progress of the
Structural Adjustment Loan: Second Tranche Release", Memo from the President to the Executive
Board, dated December 1991; "Papua New Guinea" Competitiveness, Growth and Structural
Adjustment", World Bank Report No. 10319-PNG, dated March 31, 1992; and "Papua New
Guinea: Jobs, Economic Growth and Intemational Competitiveness", World Bank Report 11653-
PNG, dated May 3, 1993.
6/    Under the first stand-by, a waiver was granted on some performance criteria as the 1990 budget
deficit was expected to be slightly higher than programmed. Under the second arrangement, the
ceiling on net domestic assets of the banking system at end-1991 was exceeded largely because of
faster growth in the private sector than had been envisaged in the program. In this particular case,
nonobservance was essentially technical and the Fund would have granted a waiver but considered
it unnecessary given the precautionary nature of the arrangement.
7/    A budgeted deficit of 1 1/4% of GDP (excluding SIP expenditures) in 1991, versus an overall
balanced budgetary position.



- 6 -
important legislation was passed to expedite the award of contracts and the approval of loan
agreements with external donors; a new expenditure control system was put-in-place in mid-1991
(with the support of technical assistance from the IMF); agreements were in place to phase-out
subsidies to commodity support programs; and spending on the public investment program
appeared to be on a sharply rising trend. Moreover, a new project cycle system was introduced
to improve the process of project selection and implementation. Results were more mixed on
trimming administrative spending and on civil service reform. For example, real wages of
public employees declined significantly and retrenchment of public servants was well above
target in 1990. But, achieving a lasting reduction in the size of the civil service proved to be
more difficult than expected, the initial decline was smaller than intended, and it could not be
sustained beyond 1991.
14.        In the area of promotion of the private non-mining sector, some significant
progress was recorded at an early stage, and built upon in subsequent actions.  Most notably,
much of the competitive gains from the January 1990 devaluation have been preserved, even
through mid-1993 (Figure 1), owing in large part to successful implementation of restrained
monetary and wage policies. There was also significant--albeit delayed--reform of the foreign
investment regime,8/ as the out-moded National Investment Development Agency was replaced
by the Investment Promotion Authority, which brought a new business-like approach to the
process of approving foreign investments.  Some delays were also encountered in the
privatization package,9/ but in July 1991 the Cabinet approved a package of public enterprise
reform that began the process of privatization, commercialization, corporatization and
consolidation of public enterprises. As follow-up, steps were taken around the end of 1991 to
set-up a Privatization Unit in the Department of Finance and Planning to assist with
implementation of the privatization package. 10/
15.         Despite these successes and notwithstanding only moderate delays (of roughly six
months) in meeting the SAL policy conditions, the economic reforms did not take root as deeply
as anticipated. Consequently, the major issue with implementation of these reforms is their
sustainability. an issue that is discussed in the following three Sections.
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project
16.         Major unforeseen factors affected this project in both positive and negative ways.
On the one hand, resource development projects had a larger economic impact at an earlier date
than had been expected. Whereas the SAL had assumed that new projects would begin to make
a major contribution only in 1994, production at the Porgera gold mine (the largest in the world
outside of South Africa) was initially much higher than predicted and oil exports from the
Kutubu project came on-stream earlier than anticipated and the volumes of production were
8/    These delays stemmed principally from certain legal and technical ambiguities in the legislation that
necessitated re-drafting of the enabling legislation passed in May 1991. Re-worked legislation was
submitted to Parliament in November of 1991, but could not be passed due to absence of a quorum
of the final day of that sitting of Parliament. The legislation was finally passed into law at the
subsequent session of Parliament, in February 1992, as one of the first items on the agenda.
9/    These delays were related to internal disagreements over the breadth of the mandate of the
privatization committee.
10/   Funding for this initiative was provided by the Japanese Grant Facility.



considerably stronger than forecast.Al/ These projects contributed in an important way to
economic recovery, which was significantly stronger and came earlier than expected. Real GDP
rose by almost 12% per annum in the period 1991-93 compared with a little more than 7% that
had been expected at the time of preparation of the SAL.
17.         On the other hand, the economic costs associated with the Bougainville crisis
proved to be significantly greater than originally expected. For instance, the mine did not re-
open in early 1992. as had been assumed for the purposes of medium-term projections; 12/
indeed, that mine remains closed to this day. As well, the cost to the national government of
security operations in Bougainville accounted for a substantial part of the overruns in
expenditures mentioned above. Also, the downturn in international commodity prices was more
extended and deeper than had been anticipated at the time the SAL was designed. At the
administrative level, a change in government following national elections approximately six
months after release of the second tranche of the SAL, was also a significant exogenous factor
affecting sustainability of the prolject, as the new Government brought a new set of development
priorities to the national economic agenda.
F. Impact of the Loan
18.         The Government was successful in meeting the conditions envisaged under this
Loan, especially in the area of stabilization as detailed at the outset of Section C. Viewing the
positive impacts of the Loan reforms in a broad perspective, large amounts of financial assistance
were mobilized by the donor community on a relatively tighlt time schedule that assisted the
Government in averting a financial crisis; important breathing space was provided to initiate
long-term structural retorms, and a strong economic recovery ensued. These are all significant,
positive impacts of measures undertaken, in part, as a consequence this Loan.
19.         Despite the conditions of this Loan having been satisfied, only limited success was
achieved in attaining the objectives of the operation. As emphasized in many pieces of Bank
analysis on PNG. this Loan was intended to be only the beginning of a long process of economic
reform in PNG. The deep-rooted nature of many of PNG's problems clearly called for long-
term commitment to sustainable economic reforms, which were not nurtured by this Loan.
Despite many initial successes--and notwithstanding some important progress since the end of
the SAL--several reforms envisaged under the Loan proved to be unsustainable (Annex I). In
part, this result stems from certain design features of the SAL itself (see Section F). But in
addition, some of the internal momentum for reform was lost around the time of release of the
first tranche: as mentioned, there were moderate delays in release of the second tranche; and
some important components of the SAL reforms were reversed after release of the second
tranche.
11/   Credit for this outcome is due to strong government support for the Kutubu project and to an
excellent implementationi record on the part of the private sector project manager.
12/  It was explicitly recognized that the mine was unlikely to open sooner than this, and that the mine
could remain closed for a longer period.



-8-
Figure 1: PNG - TRENDS IN EXCHANGE RATE, 1986-93
1986=100                                                               US$
104                                                                    1.250
102
1.200
100
88  Z  >a    l       l       l       l       01.150
98: 
96                                                                   1.100
REERnt
94~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
942
Source: IMF, International Financial Statis.1.00
90                                            US$*K*
88    0*95
198    197 18         99 190 19               92 19
REER: Rea efeciv exhnert;dcieniaemrvmn
92- ecnoywie opeitvnes
Sore    IM ,Itrntoa    innilSttsis



- 9 -
20.         Further Progress in Some Areas. As just noted, the PNG Government was able
to continue the momentum of reform in some areas, despite policy re-assessment and process
interruption occasioned by the elections at mid-1992. Most importantly, a major step was taken
to de-regulate wage-setting arrangements through the Minimum Wage Board's decision of August
1992, which unified the dual system of urban and rural minimum wages at the much lower rural
rate. This landmark decision has the potential to dismantle PNG's rigid system of centralized
wage determination. As concerns other policy reforms, there was a significant easing of foreign
exchange controls; steps were taken towards resolving management problems at both the
Agricultural Development Bank and the Post and Telecommunications Corporation; and a
parliamentary committee presented its recommendations on reform of provincial governments.
21.         Unsustainability in Other Areas. However, these positive developments were
largely overshadowed by a lack of sustainability as regards several other reforms undertaken
during the SAL (Annex 1). At the most fundamental level, it appears that the competitiveness
gains that were undertaken--and by and large attained--were considerably less than the amount
needed to support sustainability (see the discussion in Section F). However, viewing the issue
of reform sustainability in a narrower perspective, the experience with trade and tax reforms
constitute one important example; as noted, the Government had made significant progress in
the 1991 Budget. But, the manufacturers' sales tax could not be implemented,13/ and the
announced schedule for removing import bans was not pursued in subsequent Budgets. In
addition, an activist industrialization policy was announced by the Ministry of Trade and Industry
around the middle of 1991.14/ and some new trade restrictions were introduced during the
period covered by the Loan.15/ Moreover, the Budget for 1993 announced large (nearly 2
percentage points of GDP) tax cuts in the expectation of generating significant "supply-side"
benefits. Effectively, these cuts and other measures in the Budget reversed several of the tax
and trade reforms undertaken under the Loan: the non-mining tax base was significantly
narrowed; dependence upon import duties was increased; the base for cost recovery was
narrowed; and the indirect tax system was tilted even more to favor production for the domestic
market, rather than for export.
22.         Reforms also lacked sustainability in other areas.   On the side of fiscal
expenditures, there has not been the compositional change that had been sought: O&M spending
has dropped off markedly from its 1991 levels; the expenditure control mechanism introduced
in mid-1991 (and subsequently strengthened) has proven to be largely ineffective in containing
expenditure overruns at year-end; and spending on commodity support programs has increased
13/   The 1991 Budget (which was presented to Parliament in November 1990) introduced a 3%
manufacturers' sales on a small subset of goods. The tax base would be broadened to include all
manufacturers in January 1992 and the rate would be increased over time.  Unexpected
administration difficulties caused extension of the tax to be delayed one year, that is, until January
1993. However, the Budget for 1993 (which was handed down in November 1992) abolished this
tax, as well as certain other minor taxes.
14/   The Plan documents include: J. Giheno, Minister for Trade and Industry, Statement to National
Parliament, 29 August 1991; and GOPNG, Medium Term Industry and Trade Development Action
Plan, June 1991.
15/   The most notable of these concerns a cement (clinker) plant, which is supported by high tariffs that
provide a guaranteed rate of return to the foreign investor. In other cases, high tariffs (of 30 to
100%) were introduced to protect domestic producers. Similar actions are pending on imports of
canned mackerel.



- 10 -
markedly. On investment promotion, identifiable progress has been made,l6/ but government
policy remains too regulatory-minded; policing and statistical activities occupy too much of the
Promotion Agency's resources; and PNG is being left well behind in the highly competitive
business of attracting (non-extractive) foreign direct investment. With regard to the privatization
initiative and civil service reform, progress has been irregular, marked by setbacks and generally
slow; little of real substance had been finalized even two years after release of the second tranche
of the SAL.
23.          As mentioned earlier, the stabilization component of this Loan was relatively
successful. However, it should be noted that there are indications that these successes are also
proving to be unsustainable. Fueled in large part by an expansionary shift in fiscal policy in the
second half of 1992. the tiscal deficit has widened progressively (from 3 1/4 percent of GDP in
1990 to an estimated 6 1/4 percent in 1993)17/ despite significantly higher tax revenues from
oil production. Mirroring these developments, the balance of payments has also deteriorated
markedly. By early 1994, ofticial international reserves were down to less than 1 3/4 months
of import cover, compared with 3 1/2 months at the end of 1991 and more than 6 months of
coverage before the Bougainville crisis developed. In addition, domestic debt is increasing
rapidly.
G. Assessment otf the Outcome
24.         Viewed in two contexts, this Loan can be seen as a notable success. First, it was
a timely effort that supported a successful short-term stabilization operation in the face of major
shocks to the PNG  economy.  And second, the Loan helped to initiate several important
economic reforns. However. it is difficult to credit this Loan with initiating an extendedprocess
of economzic reJbrm in PNG, as discussed in Section E. The reasons for this outcome, which
include design features of the Loan itself, are discussed in this Section. together with some
lessons to be learned from the experience.
25.         On Design Flaws. Several factors associated with this Loan contributed to a lack
of sustainability. First. loan design could have made more of a contribution to sustainability in
several ways.  If structural reforms had been undertaken against the backdrop of a more
aggressive exchange rate policy, the resulting improvement to competitiveness would probably
have added to sustainablility. Also, the SAL's timetable for reforms appears to have been
excessively optimistic in some areas, for example, on civil service reform and privatization, as
well as on the role of the Inter-Departmental Working Group on Structural Adjustment
Implementation. 1 8/
16/   For example, a well-organized, business-like team had been set up at the Investment Promotion
Agency (IPA); IPA's management is sensitive to its role in PNG's development; the Agency seems
responsive to legitimate enquiries from potential investors; and the Agency appears to be able to
meet the target 45-day turnaround on completed applications.
17/   It should be noted that in 1991, a deficit of approximately 4 1/2 percent of GDP was technically
avoided by the EEC's conversion in that year of some K95 million in outstanding STABEX loans
(a below-the-line financing item) to grants (a revenue item), which served to hold the deficit to 1
3/4 percent of GDP.
I8/   As noted earlier, this Group was to facilitate implementation and monitoring of the SAL. In the
event, it appears that the Group never met and none of the envisaged reports were ever finalized.



- 11 -
26.         New Oil and Gold Revenues Ease Financial Pressure. Development of PNG's
natural resources constituted an exogenous, second factor contributing to the lack of
sustainability. When it became apparent that new oil and gold projects would yield apppreciably
more revenues earlier than expected, there was an easing of the financial pressure for immediate
reform.  This contributed to a more relaxed attitude toward reform  on the part of the
Government. 19/
27.         Lack of Wide Local Constituency. As a third factor hindering sustainability, it
became clear in the course of Loan supervision that the constituency that favored the reforms
narrowed as PNG earned additional revenues from development of its resources. Effectiveness
would have been significantly greater if a broader consensus view of the necessary reforms could
have been in place throughout the period of the Loan and maintained in subsequent years.20/
In these circumstances, it is hardly surprising that implementation delays occurred in those areas
that required institutional reform and the accompanying internal impetus for change (eg, civil
service reform, privatization, the Investment Promotion Authority, trade policy, and expenditure
control). Also, scarce PNG staff resources were stretched thin to implement the reforms, and
key staff were inevitably diverted to other priority tasks.
28.         Fourth. the new Government (which assumed office just after the middle of 1992)
felt little proprietorship for the reform program of the previous administration and soon launched
its own bold program of economic expansion. Also at the political level, time-consuming
parliamentary processes were an unanticipated cause of delay in the implementation of some
policies (eg. passage of the IPA-enabling legislation).
29.         As specifically concerns measures to alleviate the social costs of adjustment, the
Government made reasonable efforts to safeguard vital services. Indeed, spending in some areas
(such as agricultural subsidies) was significantly increased with the explicit intention of
channelling public resources to the rural poor.  However, experience with the Special
Interventions Project--which is still under implementation--was more mixed during the period
of the SAL. For instance, some components of the Program (eg, the development of provincial
drainage works) performed well. But other components of the Program lagged and the number
of newly-created jobs fell short of expectations, due mainly to problems with implementation of
the housing component.
30.         Lessons to be Learned. There are many lessons to be learned from the Bank's
experience with this Loan. Most importantly, PNG--like many other countries--undertook
reform at a time of financial crisis. As the financial pressure eased, stemming in part from
earlier-than-expected development of oil and mineral resources, much of the internal impetus for
reform was lost.
31.         With further regard to the issue of sustainability of the reforms, it seems that loan
design should have been less complex and wide-ranging. Perhaps it would have been more
productive in the longer term to have focussed instead on a few key areas where policy-makers
had greater sustainable leverage. At the same time, it seems that the extent of the adjustment
needed to ensure sustainability of growth in the private non-mining sector was significantly
19/  In the event, the fiscal inflows from these projects dissipated quickly as they served as the basis
for the program of economic expansion undertaken by the new Government beginning in the
second halt of 1992.
20/   Turnover (among both Bank and PNG staff) added to this lack of consensus.



- 12 -
underestimated; in retrospect, far bolder initial steps in the area of competitiveness were needed
to support sustainable, broad-based growth.
32.         Concerning implementation, it appears that judgements on PNG's capacity to
implement SAL conditions might have taken greater account of PNG's well-known history of
limited project implementation capacity. As a general principle, the evidence of this Loan
suggests that the lessons from experience with project implementation are broadly applicable to
SAL implementation. Also on implementation, it seems that too much was expected of the Inter-
Departmental Working Group set up to oversee implementation of the SAL. With the full
benefit of hindsight, it might have been more productive to make use of an existing committee
that had similar terms of reference (for example, GRAC; see footnote 3).
33.         On technical matters related to design of the Loan, several of the Loan's conditions
for tranche release were specified in terms of budgeted amounts of spending; in the event, actual
spending would have been a more relevant indicator of performance. At the design stage, it was
reasonable to use budgeted amounts, as these were expected to be the only data available on the
time schedule envisaged during loan design. However, this design feature became a liability to
conditionality when the timing of tranche release began to fall behind schedule.21/
34.         Also on technical design, the benefit of hindsight also suggests that more attention
might have been paid to the feasibility of implementing certain of the envisaged reforms, most
notably reform of the civil service. Two points should be made in this regard. First, in
retrospect, civil service reform is a much more dificult area of reform than appears to have been
anticipated during appraisal. To be effective, more broad-based commitment to reform was
needed on the part of the PNG Government; deeper technical background studies (for example,
a Public Expenditure Review) should have been undertaken prior to negotiations; and supervision
could have been more intense. And second, without deeper analysis, the basis for certain of the
reforms appears to have been somewhat unclear. This is particularly the case as regards the
targets for net downsizing of the civil service; these became virtually unattainable in the light
of the high priority subsequently attached (by both the Bank and the Government) to improving
the delivery of certain basic services, eg health, education, and law and order. Finally on
technical design, it seems that the SAL should have included a conditionality clause related to
the introduction of new restrictive trade policies.
35.         At present, there are no plans to undertake further structural adjustment loans to
PNG.
H. Role of the Bank
36.         The Bank has been involved with PNG since 1963, and its first lending operation
was approved in 1968, well before Independence. In 1987 a major effort was undertaken to
improve the quality and effectiveness of Bank support to PNG. The vehicles for this effort
included more comprehensive economic and sector work, initiation (in 1988) of the Consultative
Group for PNG, and operational interventions which included this SAL. With these vehicles
21/   For instance, the Government was able to satisfy certain fiscal conditions (which were specified
in terms of budgeted amounts), when preliminary data (which were available because the SAL fell
behind schedule) indicated that the budgetary targets were overly optimistic.



- 13 -
already well-established by late 1989, the Bank was able to respond expeditiously to the
Government's request for assistance.22/
37.         Dialogue Based on Economic and Sector Work.  The Bank's Economic and
Sector Work Program is the instrument to maintain and deepen the economic policy dialogue.
The Program includes two main elements. First is the annual Country Economic Memorandum,
whose preparation in 1989 was the means for identifying the basis for this SAL. It also
represents the focal point for discussions between the Government and the donors with other
donors at the time of the Consultative Group Meeting. The second element, sector work, has
been directed towards increasing productive potential in the indigenous, non-extractive sector and
enhancing human resource development.
38.         Chairman of Aid Donor Meetings. The Bank chairs the annual Consultative
Group for PNG, which provides a donor forum to discuss recent economic, social and political
developments. With the Bank acting in this capacity, the Group was a particularly effective
mechanism for mobilizing special assistance from the aid donor community during PNG's
stabilization period. As mentioned earlier, the Bank's contribution in the regard was this SAL,
which served as the catalyst for mobilizing substantial resources on concessional terms.
39.         Operational Interventions. The Bank, which has a limited number of direct loans
to PNG,23/ has generally played the role of "lender of last resort". All other aid donors
provide concessional financing (or grants) on more favorable terms, and the Government wishes
to limit borrowing from the Bank as long as cheaper financing is available elsewhere. PNG has
made active use of the Bank's non-lending forms of operational interventions, and the Bank has
acted as executing agency for projects and grant arrangements in some cases. Currently, the
Bank will undertake new lending operations where it can concentrate on institutional
development, employment generation, sustainable development in rural areas, the environment,
or human resource development, and where it can provide other exceptional value added.
I. Loan Administration and Coordination
40.          Supervision.   Time spent on supervision of this loan is estimated to have
amounted to some 15 staff-weeks per year, compared with 20 and 12 for the Bank-wide average
and the Asia Region, respectively.24/  The supervision effort was stepped-up as policy
reforms appeared to be losing momentum, and the approach paid some dividends; policy drift
was identified at an early stage, and serious efforts were made by both PNG and Bank officials
to sustain the reform effort. Nonetheless, more time in the field by Bank staff likely would have
22/   For example, staff were able to proceed directly to appraisal of this SAL, without the usual, time-
consuming earlier steps of missions for identification and preparation.
23/   To date the Bank has extended 27 loans and 13 IDA credits to PNG, amounting to US$532 million
and US$114 million, respectively. Nevertheless, Bank lending constitutes only around 5 percent
of annual aid to PNG. There have been no IDA credits since 1983, and in August 1993, IFC's
Executive Board approved a US$13 million tuna canning operation, the first IFC investment in the
country.
24/   See "Effectiveness of SAL Supervision and Monitoring", World Bank Report No. 9711, dated June
26, 1991. Data for Bank and Asia Region averages refer to 1990, the most recent year covered
by the Report.



- 14 -
helped to keep borrower attention focussed on the reform effort. It might also have contributed
to a greater sense of proprietorship for the reform program on the part of the borrower.
41.        Procurement and Disbursement.  The proceeds of the Loan reimbursed
expenditures made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of
the Structural Adjustment Program, subject to a standard list of ineligible imports. Withdrawals
for expenditures estimated to cost less than US$200,000 were to be permitted upon the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Contracts for the procurement of goods costing in excess of
US$2,000,000 were to be awarded through international competitive bidding; commonly traded
commodities might be procured through international commodity markets.  Apart from
US$2,000,000 million that was used to finance technical assistance in support of the Structural
Adjustment Program, all disbursements were used to finance imports of oil commodity products.
42.        Donor Cooperation. During this SAL, there was exceptional cooperation among
members of the aid donor community. This is particularly the case as regards the Bank, the
IMF, and the Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB, the Australian
aid agency). IMF missions (stand-by negotiations and reviews) and SAL missions (appraisal and
supervision) were timed to overlap; IMF and AIDAB staff participated in SAL supervision
missions; and, staff shared information on a regular basis. There was also frequent contact with
other bilateral and multilateral aid agencies. Such cooperation was key in mobilizing aid to
PNG, as well as a useful means to minimize the burden on the PNG Government of supervision
missions.
43.        As mentioned earlier, PNG's last IMF stand-by expired on September 30, 1992.
The last Article IV consultation discussions were held in Port Moresby in July 19-30, 1993 and
concluded at a meeting of the IMF Executive Board on December 6, 1993. PNG is on the
standard 12-month cycle. Close cooperation continues between Bank and Fund staff.



- 15 -
PART II: BORROWER'S COMMENTS
44.        Overall. The Government broadly agrees with the Bank's views on the Structural
Adjustment Program (SAP); of what happened and why; its admittance to mistakes that could
have been avoided; of the difficulties in achieving the desired outcome of some components of
the SAP. It goes without saying that with the Bank's extensive experience in structural
adjustments elsewhere, we still made avoidable mistakes.
45.        Factual Information.  Data contained in Part III of the Report appear to be
adequate and accurate.
46.        Objectives f' the Project. The three main objectives; (a) financial stabilization;
(b) improvement of public resource management; and (c) promotion of the private non-mining
sector, are long term in nature. The SAP (as it turned out) concentrated on an immediate rescue
package for the Government thereby diverting attention from much longer term considerations
of the program such as sustainability. The report submits that while there have been successes,
they are likely to be unsustainable.
47.        It therefore would have been more beneficial to focus on several components (rather
than the full range of activities) to achieve the immediate objective while a program covering
longer term structural adjustments was developed.
48.         Internal Implementation Capacity. The capacity to implement a project of this
magnitude, involving many components and multi-donors, was not sufficiently considered which
can prove to be costly. This project was designed and implemented against our (well known)
capacity constraints.
49.        With the benefit of hindsight, the project was overambitious. Structural adjustment
is always difficult and it is far more effective if targeted and gradually introduced as an ongoing
exercise rather than a big, multi component program as in this case.
50.        Aspects of' Project Design. An important factor in successful implementation of
a project is the willingness to implement. This project involved (directly and indirectly) and
affected different agencies of the Government. It appears, in retrospect that, there was generally
a lack of thorough understanding of the project and the interrelationships between the different
components. Some of the implementation problems can be attributed to this lack of
understanding. It is therefore worthwhile to spend sufficient time in the design stages to involve
all participants so that a clear understanding is established of the objectives of the project prior
to implementation.
51.        Bank's Performance. While assistance of the Bank to the Government was useful,
more could have been given during the design stage. It is felt that Government's forecast on
terms of trade, our uncompetitiveness, our capability to implement and generally the financial
situation could have benefitted more from the Bank's expert assessment and advice which would
have formed the basis for a more realistic project design. PNG also could have benefitted more
from the Bank's extensive experiences in similar structural adjustments program elsewhere than
it did.



- 16 -
52.         PNG's Performance. The coordination of different components of the project and
the requirements under the loan proved difficult as expected. Under this situation PNG has
performed well. However, expectation of the outcomes in some cases were unrealistically high
and could not he met as its implementation capacity was stretched to the limits.
53.        It is felt that the project was largely driven by the urgency to formulate a structural
adjustment program that important issues relating to the impact of the project and sustainability
of outcomes may have been overlooked.



- 17 -
PART III: LOAN DATA
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Amounts (US$ million)
As of: January 31, 1994
Original    Disbursed     Canceled     Repaid    Outstanding
Credit 3218-PNG         50.0          50.0         0            0            50.33 *
Ori2inal Loan Dates    Actual or Reestimated
Letter of Development Policy      April 27, 1990          April 27, 1990
Negotiations                     April 1990               April 1990
Board Approval                   June 5, 1990             June 5, 1990
Loan Agreement                                            August 24, 1990
Effectiveness                    July 1990                October 1990
Loan Closing                     June 30, 1992            June 30, 1993
Cumulative Loan Disbursement
FY91        FY92        FY93
(i)   Planned                  50           0           0
(ii)   Actual                  25           49          50
(iii)  (ii) as % of (i)      50%          98%        100%
Mission/Staff Input Data
No. of     Staff       Date of
Month. year   persons    weeks         report
Preparation **                     Late 1989         5        17.1       ...
Appraisal                         Feb. 1990          5        11.3       Mar. 6, 1990
Negotiations                      Apr. 1990          9         6.4       May 7, 1990
Supervision                       Sep. 1990          6          14       Oct. 5,1990
Supervision                       Dec. 1990           1          1       Jan. 2, 1991
Supervision                       Apr. 1991           1          2       Apr. 25, 1991
Supervision                       Aug. 1991           1        1.5       ...
Supervision                       Nov. 1991           1          1       Dec 5, 1991
Tranche Release                   Dec. 1991           1          2       Dec 18, 1991
Completion                        Mar. 1993           1          4
* Exchange adjustment: .33
** Prior to Feb, 1990. the PNG SAL was not a separately identified task; preparations were
incorporated in the November 1989 CEM mission.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN                                                  Annex I
Summary of Major Economic Reforms
Summary of ActionLs Taken
Policy Objective               Areas of Intervention                 During Loan              Situation in Late 1993
A. Macroeconomic Stabilization
Adjust fiscal policy to preserve  Tax policy and expenditure        Inflation kept under control;     Fiscal and Balance of Payments
financial stability               control                           official reserves maintained at   deteriorating markedly.
adequate levels; IMF stand-by
targets virtually all met.
Maintain domestic credit growth   Net credit to the government and  Virtually all IMF stand-by targets    Rapid expansion of net credit to
at rate consistent with financial  interest rates                   met.                             the government and limited
stability, without crowding-out                                                                       growth in private sector credit.
the private sector
00
Ensure external debt service      Foreign commercial borrowing      No foreign commercial borrowing    Returned to foreign commercial
remains manageable                for general budgetary financing   undertaken.                       borrowing, but public debt
service at low levels.
B. Public Resource Management
Raise additional revenues and     Tax policy                        Significant actions announced in  Several actions of 1991 Budget
broaden the tax base                                                1991 Budget (see main text).     reversed or not implemented.
Reduce the high proportion of     Tight Wage Policy                 Restrictive Wage Agreement        Significant follow-up action taken
budget absorbed by administrative                                   negotiated and restrictive stance  on Minimum Wages (in main
expenditures                                                        maintained.                       text).
Reduction in size of Civil Service    Large retrenchment but       Results not sustained. New study
significant new hirings; overall  commission; report not finalized.
size of civil service little changed.



Summary of Actions Taken
Policy Objective                 Areas of Intervention                    During Loan               Situation in Late 1993
Improve funding of O&M spending     Budget allocation                   Over-performance relative to         Results not sustained.
performance criteria in 1991.
Raise public investment spending    Public Investment Program           Over-performance relative to         Pace of improvement not sustained.
performance criteria in 1991.
Certain ceilings raised in          Results sustained.
contracting procedures.
Project cycle system introduced.    Results sustained.
Phase-out price support to          Budget allocation                   Agreement reached to phase-out       Commitment re-affirmed on a
commodity stabilization funds                                           support.                             delayed schedule, but spending
(covered by ADB Program Loan)                                                                               increased.
Strengthen expenditure control      Internal monitoring of spending     Expenditure control system put in    System not fully effective.
place at mid-1991.
C. Promotion of Non-mining Private Sector
Improve international               Exchange rate policy                Kina devalued by 10% vis-a-vis the   Roughly unchanged.
competitiveness                                                         US$, January 1990.
Wage policy                         Restrictive stance on wage policy   Progress significantly extended by
maintained.                         Action on Minimum Wages.
Streamline procedures governing     Institutional reform                NTDA replaced by IPA                 IPA functioning.
foreign investment
Reduce public sector involvement    Privatization/commercialization     Cabinet approval of plans and unit   Second group set-up to implement
set-up to implement.                but little substantive progress.
Improve efficiency of domestic      Trade Policy                        Schedule for lifting of import bans  Schedule not followed, and new
production                                                              announced in 1991 Budget and         restrictive measures introduced.
some bans lifted immediately



- 20 -
Annex 11
Table 1: GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT BY INDUSTRIAL ORIGIN
AT CONSTANT 1983 PRICES, 1984-93
(In Millions of Kina)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992   1993
Est.
Agriculture, Forestr, & Fishing      720.9   699.9   710.7   748.7   775.0   785.6   802.9   781.7   829.2   868.7
Mining & Quarrying                   185.4   274.6   364.5   354.4   363.5   225.8   277.3   393.4   426.9   403.7
Petroleum                                                                                                186.8   601.7
Manufacturing                       235.8   242.4   220.4   222.3   230.9   250.3   193.3   223.9   241.9   264.5
.lectricity, Gas, & Water             35.2    34.4    34.2    36.0    36.0    36.6    36.6    38.6    40.2    40.9
Construction                         104.5    87.8    90.3    84.5   105.0   119.1   108.9   144.8   133.2   110.7
Trade, Transport & Finance           404.4   410.0   423.3   446.6   447.0   458.7   415.5   478.6   485.7   466.4
Community and Social Services        358.5   377.8   377.8   379.0   379.1   395.3   384.7   382.4   401.6   426.7
Sub-Total                           2044.7  2126.9  2221.2  2271.5  2336.5  2271.4  2219.2  2443.4  2745.5  3183.3
Plus Import Duties                    90.2    93.4   103.3   117.3   121.8   151.7   131.3   131.3   133.3   110.8
Gross Domestic Product              2134.9  2220.3  2324.5  2388.8  2458.3  2423.1  2350.5  2574.7  2878.7  3294.2
Source: Data provided by PNG authorities.



- 21 -
Annex II
Table 2: MINIMUM WAGE RATES, 1982-93
(K per week at current prices)
End Period                           Urban      Rural                 Whole
Country
1982                                  38.82     14.65
1983                                  41.51     15.48
1984                                  43.59     16.25
1985                                  45.51     16.97
1986                                  47.57     17.70
1987                                  49.84     18.58
1958                                  51.34     19.14
1989                                  53.96     20.13
1990                                  55.71     20.78
1991                                  59.10     22.00
1992 11                               61.79     23.03 2/               23.19 3/
Sept Qtr.                                                            22.96
1993
Sept Qtr.                                                             24.24
Source: National Statistical Office.
1 /The dual system (urban and rural) of minimum wages
was unified at the lower, rural rate with effect from September 1992.
2/ Average for first half of year based on 1989 MWB determination.
3/ Average for second half of year based on new MWB determination.
Source: National Statistical Office.



- 22 -                                                 Annex II
Table 3: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT REVENUE AND GRANTS, 1984-93
(K million at current prices)
1984   1985   1986   1987  1988   1989    1990   1991   1992   1993
Est.
Tax Revenue                              412.8  421.5  441.4  501.3  570.4  689.2  591.6  624.2  762.5  965.4
Taxes on Income and Profits             231.0  225.8  227.0  256.3  310.3  366.7  280.7  312.0  418.7  573.8
Companies                               88.0   84.8   70.8   94.4  129.1  176.7   94.5   89.9  158.9  370.0
Mining Sector                         39.3   15.2   18.8   28.7   46.5   91.4    0.0    0.0   66.9  262.0
Other                                 48.7   69.6   52.0   65.7   82.6   85.3   94.5   89.9   92.0  108.0
Individuals                           132.2  133.0  145.0  146.8  156.8  172.7  186.2  206.2  235.5  185.0
Dividend Withholding tax                10.8    8.0   11.2   15.1   24.4   17.3    0.0   15.9   24.3   18.8
Mining Sector                          5.2    2.0    4.6    6.0   16.8    8.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Other                                  5.6    6.0    6.6    9.1    7.6    9.3    0.0   15.9   24.3   18.8
Excise Duties                            58.5   61.8   65.2   68.2   66.8   82.5   90.0   79.2   93.0   93.9
Taxes on International Trade            112.3  117.0  137.0  161.5  173.4  216.0  193.7  207.9  224.0  270.4
Import Duties                          99.5  103.9  122.7  144.3  157.1  204.1  181.0  189.5  197.9  195.0
ExportTaxes                             12.8   13.1   14.3   17.2   16.3   11.9   12.7   18.4   26.1   75.4
OtherTaxes                               11.0   16.9   12.1   15.4   19.9   24.0   27.2   25.1   26.8   27.3
Nontax Revenue                            78.1  102.2  141.4  152.2  144.7  135.0  175.1   187.2  166.7  109.3
Revenue from Investment                  41.0   45.7   70.7   82.5   78.6   68.5   91.3   99.1   82.8
Mining Sector 1/                       11.0    6.5   12.6   15.7   28.5   20.3   13.7   13.3   15.8
Other                                  30.0   39.2   58.1   66.8   50.1   48.2   77.6   85.8   67.0
Other                                    37.1   56.5   70.7   69.7   66.1   66.5   83.8   88.1   84.0
TOTAL REVENUE                            490.9  523.7  582.8  653.5  715.1  824.2  766.7  811.4  929.2  1074.7
MINING SECTOR 2/                         55.5   23.7   36.0   50.4   91.8  119.7   13.7   13.3   82.7  266.0
OTHER                                   435.4  500.0  546.8  603.1  623.3  704.5  753.0  798.1  846.5  808.7
GRANTS                                   228.4  215.5  204.7  184.3  189.9  189.7  222.1  311.6  196.3  195.1
TOTAL REVENUE & GRANTS                   719.3  739.2  787.5  837.8  905.0  1013.9  988.8  1123.0  1125.5  1269.8
Source: Data provided by the PNG authorities and staff estimates.
1/ Includes payments by BCL & OTML into MRSF as tax and nontax receipts, but excludes
royalties to provincial governments and local authorities.
2/ Excludes import duties.



- 23 -
Annex II
Table 4: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES, 1984-93 1/
(K million at current prices)
1984   1985   1986   1987  1988   1989    1990   1991   1992   1993
Est
Departmental Expenditure                 302.9  343.2  348.3  370.6  403.8  458.6  467.7  524.6  603.5  623.9
(Of which: Wages & Salaries)            129.0  161.0  165.8  175.4  183.8  204.3  225.8  232.8  255.8  266.3
Capital Works                             48.2   37.1   59.7   56.5   55.9   58.4   86.7   70.5   72.6  101.0
Maintenance Works                         35.5   41.3   44.6   40.6   43.9   47.8   33.4   50.2   46.6   44.1
Grants to Provincial Governments         210.4  234.5  222.5  237.2  245.2  282.6  275.1  315.9  338.0  347.1
Other Grants                              44.7   49.2   53.6   57.1   65.9   70.5   63.4   69.4   82.1  145.9
Interest Payments                         72.9   71.0   83.8   77.7   84.9   90.9  108.6  116.5  145.0  159.2
Net Lending & Investment                  22.9   -1.7   27.1   14.7   18.5   23.0   30.3    7.0   -5.4   10.2
(Of which: Commercial Investment)        14.4    5.0   32.2   24.1   28.3   31.3   53.3   16.4    8.0
Other                                     4.9   12.8   14.0   14.3   17.4   17.4   23.9   33.8   76.0  151.9
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                        742.4  787.3  853.6  868.7  935.3  1049.1  1089.1  1187.8  1358.4  1583.3
Capital                                  95.0   97.5  123.0  118.7  125.2  135.8  153.1  152.4  165.8  217.8
Current 2/                              647.4  689.8  730.6  750.0  810.1  913.3  936.0  1035.4  1192.6  1365.5
Memorandum Item:
Expenditure on Goods & Services 3/      655.1  711.3  737.6  766.9  822.1  926.9  927.2  1054.9  1205.4
Source: Data provided by PNG authorities and staff estimates.
1/ Excludes payments to the Bank of PNG to compensate for revaluation losses on international reserves.
2/ Computed as residuals.
3/ Total expenditures less commercial investments and interest payments on public debt.



-24-
Annex II
Table 5: MONETARY SURVEY, 1984-93
(K million at current prices)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Sept.
TOTAL ASSETS                    749.4  814.3  929.2  943.0   984.9  1037.5  1081.6  1272.5  1431.7  1585.5
Foreign Assets (net)           354.1  397.5   4140   407.4   330.4   259.0  243.7  179.4   142.3   110.0
Monetary Authority            389.2  435.4  442.8  445.6   398.2  338.1   321.3  255.8   184.5   41.3
Commercial Banks               -35.2  -37.9  -28.8  -38.2   -67.8   -79.1   -77.6  -76.4   -42.2   68.7
Domestic Credit                497.3  613.8  708.4  759.4   904.2  1009.3  1090.6  1326.6  1505.6  1677.7
Claims on Govt. (net)          -1.4   21.0   30.6       9.9   46.9    69.7   135.9  248.8  380.8   531.5
Claims on Private Sector 1/    498.8  592.8  677.8  749.5   857.3   939.6  954.7  1077.8  1124.8  1146.2
Other Items (net)             -102.0  -197.1  -193.2  -223.8  -249.7  -230.8  -252.7  -233.4  -216.3  -202.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES                749.4  814.3  929.2  943.0   984.9  1037.5  1081.6  1272.5  1431.7  1585.5
Broad Money (M3*) 2/           669.2  733.5  840.0  877.8   971.9  1034.9  1079.6  1271.0  1431.1  1585.5
Deposits of stabilization funds
Bank ot PNG                    80.2   80.8   89.2   65.2    12.9        2.6    2.0    1.5    0.6         --
Memorandum Items:
Deposits of stabilization funds
Commercial Banks               74 6    87.7   89.2   36.7    11.0    11.7    8.0    2.3    3.6          1.6
Deposits of Mining Companies    3.3   10.6   17.5   24.1    19.6         6.1    5.7    1.2       1.4    0.8
SoUrce Data provided by PNG authorities and staff estimates.
Includes local government arid public enterprises,
2' Total liquidity M31 less deposits of stabilization funds with BPNG.



Annex II
Table 6: INTEREST RATE STRUCTURE, 1985-93
(As of End-Period)
(Percent per Annum)
1985        1986        1987         1988       1989        1990       1991       1992        1993
Oct.
Commercial Banks
Deposit Rates
Passbook Savings                         3.0-6.0     3.0-7.0      3.0-7.0     3.0-7.0    3.5-7.0     3.5-7.0    3.5-7.0    3.5-5.75     3-4.25
Term deposits under K 1 00,000 1/
3-12 months                          8.25-12.0      7.0-9.0    7.25-8.75    7.25-9.25   7.25-9.50   8.50-10.0   8.50-10.0   5.50-6.75   4.25-5 25
12 months and over                   8.75-12.0    7.25-8.75     6.0-9.0    7.00-9.50   7.75-9.50    9.0-10.0    9.0-10 0   5.75-7.50   5.00-5.25
Term deposits of K100,000 & over 1/
6 months or less                     12.5-17.5    7.0-10 25    8.0-9.25     7.5-9.75   8.0-10.25   9.0-10.75   9.0-11.25   5.50-7 25   4.50-5.50
6-12 months                          14.5-17 0     7.5-10.5    8.25-9.5    8.5-10.25   8.5-10.75  9.75-11.25  10.5-11.25    6.0-7.75    5 0-5 75
12 months and over                  13.75-17.0    7.75-10.5     7.0-9.5    8.0-10.25  8.25-10 75  10.0-11.25  10.0-11.25  7.0-8.0    5.0-5.85
Average of Term deposit Rates             16.40        9.49        10.49       11.66      12.93        9.94       9.59       6.62        5.19
Lending Rates
Overdraft                              13.0-22.0    11.0-14.0   12.25-19.0   11.75-19.0  11.75-21.0 11.25-22.50 11.25-21.50    8.0-21.5   7.75-19.0
Personal Loans                         10.0-12.0        8.0      9.0-9.5      9.0-9.5      195    6.0-12.0   10.0-12.0    9 0-12.0  7.25-13.25
Prime Lending Rate                       1400         11.80       12.75        12.25      13.75       14.50      12.75      11.50        925
Average Lending Rate                      16.11       12.89        14.31       13.92      14.76       15 04      15.20      13.80       11.14
Bank of Papua New Guinea
Exchange Settlement Account                  9.0         9.0         8.25        8.25       9 00        8.75       8.75          --         --
Discount Rate 2/                               --      11.40         8.80       10.80       9.55        9.30       930         7.12       6.30
Treasury Bills (182 days) 3/               12.25        9.35         9.50       12.00       10.75      10.50      10.50        6 50       625
Source: Data provided by PNG authorities.
11 Term deposits rates quoted as of April 29 1987 are for less than K10 000.
2/ Bank of PNG s discount facility was int-oduced in May 1983 and withdrawn in November 1985
A new disccunt facility was introduced in February 1986. As of January 1992 the discount
facility rate is dcetcrmined on a daily basts, and the rates shown are monthly averages.
3. Treasury bills are scid at a discount, rates shown are calculated effective yields.



- 26 -                                          Annex II
Table 7: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, 1984-93
(USS million at current prices)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Est.
Exports, f.o.b.                      920.0  971.6  1053.3  1258.7  1472.2  1322.7  1196.4  1482.1  1815.3  2407.6
Mineral                             365.5  548.4  577.6  787.4  993.4  789.9  793.4  1055.7  1422.4  1773.6
Nonmineral                          554.5  423.2  475.7  471.3  478.8  532.8  403.0  426.5  392.9  634.0
Imports, f.o.b.                     -945.0  -864.6  -928.7 -1096.8 -1383.4 -1346.1 -1106.4 -1403.3 -1321.8 -1210.4
Mineral                            -175.5  -169.7  -246.1  -314.9  -415.4  -453.4  -259.6  -453.8  -364.9  -330.8
Nonmineral                          -769.5  -694.9  -682.6  -781.9  -968.0  -892.7  -846.8  -949.6  -956.9  -879.6
Trade Balance                         -25.0  107.0  124.6  161.9   88.8  -23.4   90.0   78.8  493.5  1197.2
Services(net)                       -422.0  -429.3  -364.5  -455.9  -505.4  -427.7  -300.4  -489.5  -724.7  -853.8
Mineral                            -143.1  -206.1  -45.3  -93.6  -143.1  -99.3  -239.7  -223.0  -442.3  -404.4
Nonmineral                          -278.9  -223.2  -319.2  -362.3  -362.3  -328.3  -60.7  -266.5  -282.4  -449.4
Official Transfers (net)             253.0  207.1  209.0  199.3  212.3  212.7  220.9  223.7  191.8  203.5
Private Transfers (net)              -90.0  -83.8  -79.3  -104.6  -124.6  -130.9  -106.8  -64.1  -62.2  -105.7
Current Account Balance              -284.0  -199.0  -110.2  -199.3  -328.8  -369.2  -96.3  -251.0  -101.6  441.2
Mineral                              46.0  173.7  286.2  378.8  435.0  237.2  294.1  378.9  615.2  1038.3
Nonmineral                          -330.0  -372.7  -396.4  -578.1  -763.8  -606.5  -390.4  -629.9  -716.8  -597.1
Project-related Grants a/              5.0    4.0    4.1    4.4    4.6    4.7    4.2   99.8   63.2          --
Public & Publicly
Guaranteed Loans (net)                19.0   52.5   30.9   51.8  -28.8  -22.2   87.9  -55.7   59.1   61.0
Official Sources                     37.0   40.4   44.3   98.0   43.8   37.4  177.9   17.9   52.9   15.6
Commercial Sources                  -18.0   12.1  -13.4  -46.3  -72.7  -59.6  -90.0  -73.5    6.2   45.5
Private Capital(net) b/              266.1  128.3   99.9  116.7  263.1  267.6  128.7  118.7  -81.9  -516.0
Mineral                             234.8   46.0   80.3   -4.4  141.9  175.3   74.3   50.0  -131.0  -480.2
Nonmineral                           31.3   82.3   19.6  121.1  121.1   92.3   54.4   68.7   49.1  -35.8
Capital Account Balance              290.1  184.8  134.9  172.9  238.8  250.1  220.9  162.8   40.4  -455.0
Mineral                             234.8   46.0   80.3   -4.4  141.9  175.3   74.3   50.0  -131.0  -480.2
Nonmineral                           55.3  138.8   54.6  177.3   96.9   74.8  146.5  112.8  171.5   25.2
Errors & Omissions                    26.0   27.3  -23.7   18.7   27.7   57.3  -79.5    3.2   -9.3   -2.5
Overall Balance                       32.1   13.1    0.0   -8.8  -62.3  -61.9   45.0  -85.1  -70.5  -16.3
Mineral                             280.8  219.7  366.5  374.4  576.9  412.5  368.4  428.9  484.1  558.1
Nonmineral                         -248.7  -206.6  -366.5  -383.2  -639.2  -474.4  -323.4  -514.0  -554.6  -574.4
Memo Items:
Current Account/GDP(%)                -11.1   -8.2   -4.2   -6.3   -9.0  -10.4   -3.0   -6.6   -2.4    8.7
Nonmineral Current Account/GDP (%)    -12.9  -15.4  -15.0  -18.4  -20.9  -17.0  -12.1   -16.6  -16.7  -11.7
Current Account(excl.
Official Transfers)/GDP(%)           -20.9  -16.8  -12.1  -12.7  -14.8  -16.4   -9.9  -12.5   -6.8    4.7
Gross Reserves                         447    455    473    506    588    398    403    318    238   222.0
Months of nonmineral
Imports                              6.2    7.0    7.2    6.9    6.5    4.7    5.0    3.6    2.7    2.7
a/ Does not include technical assistance and some other grants in kind.
b/ Includes commercial banks.
Source: Data provided by PNG authorities and staff estimates.



- 27 -
Annex II
Table 8: VALUE OF EXPORTS BY TYPE OF PRODUCT, 1984-93
(USS million at current prices, f.o.b.)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989         1990    1991    1992       1993
Est.
Mineral                365.5   548.4   577.8   787.2   994.0   790.0   792.9  1046.0  1421.8    1773.6
Copper                151.5   209.1    160.6   310.4   515.6   403.0   365.5   336.9   325.0    212.0
Gold                 205.0   334.7   410.3   465.7   467.4   370.3   411.6   693.9   773.3    717.8
Silver                  8.9     4.7      6.9    11.1      11.0    16.7    15.8    15.2    11.1         12.3
Oil                      --      --       --       --       --       --       --       --   312.5    831.5
Non-Mineral            528.4   409.7   426.8   430.3   415.6   437.5   306.1    317.6   372.3          634.1
Agricultural          425.8   330.2   341.7   296.1    294.4   315.6   214.2   212.9   210.6    222.7
Cocoa                75.0    62.4    58.1       61.9    53.1      52.8    31.3    35.4    35.1        33.0
Coffee              123.8   117.5   214.7   148.3    131.0   164.1    108.1        82.7    70.6       77.0
Tea                  19.2    11.6       7.7      6.2     7.3      7.1      7.0      5.5      2.7       2.8
Copra                54.9    33.4    10.3    16.7    22.4    16.4          9.1      5.4      9.7      10.5
Copra Oil            44.1    23.7    10.7    16.0    20.1         17.9    12.1     13.3    22.8       17.1
Palm Oil             84.7    61.6    29.1       26.3    38.0    44.8    34.2    54.6    55.3          59.2
Rubber                2.6      3.9      3.1      3.4     5.1      3.0      1.8      1.9      1.1       1.2
Other al             21.5    16.1       8.0    17.3    17.7       9.6    10.5    14.0    13.2         21.9
Forest Products        91.4    67.3    76.9   122.1    112.5    112.4    83.3    93.9   153.6    395.4
Logs                 78.2    58.4    70.0    113.4   104.4   105.2    68.2    84.5   145.1           386.4
Other bl              13.2     8.9      6.9      8.7      8.1      7.2    15.1      9.4      8.5       9.0
Marine Products        11.2    12.2      8.1    12.1       8.7      9.5      8.6    10.8      8.1      16.0
MAJOR EXPORTS          893.9   958.1   1004.6  1217.6  1409.6  1227.5  1098.9  1363.6  1794.1    2407.6
Other Exports c/        25.6    13.5    48.7    41.1       62.7    95.2    97.5   118.5    21.2            --
TOTAL EXPORTS          919.5   971.6  1053.3  1258.7  1472.2  1322.7  1196.4  1482.1   1815.3   2407.6
Source: Data provided by PNG authorities and staff estimates.
a/ Includes a very small amount of manufactured goods.
b/ Includes timber, plywood & woodchip.
c/ Includes re-exports.



