Page  1
                                                      May 24, 1991
The Minister for Finance and Planning
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Department of Finance and Planning
Post Office Wards Strip
Waigani, N.C.D.
Papua New Guinea
            Re:   Loan N. 3218-PNG
                  (Structural Adjustment Loan)
                  Amendment of the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
      We refer to the above referenced Loan Agreement (Structural
Adjustment Loan) dated August 24, 1990, between the Independent
State of Papua New Guinea (the Borrower) and the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank).  We also refer to
your telex dated March 27, 1991, requesting amendments to the Loan
Agreement.
      We are pleased to inform you that, after due consideration,
the Bank has agreed to the above request.  Accordingly, the Loan
Agreement is amended as follows:
1.    A new Section 3.04 is added in Article III of the Loan
Agreement, as follows:
      "Section 3.04.  (a) In order to assist the Borrowr in carrying
out the Program, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.  Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with the principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
      (b)   Without limitation upon any provisions of this
Agreement, the Bank, acting as Executing Agency for the United
Nations Development Programme, will assist the Borrower in carrying
out sub-section (a) of this Section."
2.    The existing paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
is renumbered to read "2".
3.    A new paragraph 1 is added to Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement, as follows:
"1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts o the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated        % of
                                 (Expressed in        Expenditures
      Category                 Dollar Equivalent      to be Financed
(1)   Goods                      48,000,000           100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures
(2)   Consultants'                2,000,000           100%
      services
                                 __________
Page  2
      TOTAL                      50,000,000
                                 ==========
4.    A new paragraph 3 is added to Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
as follows:
      "3.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means the expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower."
5.    The first sentence of the existing paragraph 2 of Schedule 1
to the Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
      "4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2
above, no withdrawals shall be made under Category (1) in the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule in respect of:"
6.    The existing paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
is renumbered to read "5".
7.    The existing paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
is renumbered to read "6", and the words "under Category (1) in the
table set forth inparagraph 1 of this Schedule" are added after the
words "entered into" in the second line of said paragraph.
8.    The existing paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
is renumbered to read "7", and the words "paragraph 4" are amended
to read "paragraph 6".
9.    The title of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is amended by
replacing the words "Paragraph 4(b)" by the words "Paragraph 6(b)".
      Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating the enclosed letter of confirmation and returning
it to us.
                         Yours sincerely,
                            Antony Cole
                          Acting Director
                       Country Department V
                            Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
By: /s/ Gerea Aopi, Deputy Secretart, Financial and Fiscal
Management
Date: 12th June 1991
