Page  1
                                                  October 19, 1990
The Minister for Finance and Planning
Ministry for Finance and Planning
Department of Finance and Planning
Post Office Wards Strip
Waigani, N.C.D.
Papua New Guinea
                              Re: Loan No.3218-PNG
                                  (Structural Adjustment Loan)
                                  Amendment of the Loan Agreement
         We refer to the above referenced Loan Agreement (Structural
Adjustment Loan) dated August 24, 1990, between the Independent
state of Papua New Guinea (the Borrower) and the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank). We also refer to your
letter dated October 17, 1990, requesting amendments to the Loan
Agreement.
         We are pleased to inform you that, after due consideration,
the Bank has agreed to the above request. Accordingly, the Loan
Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1. Section 1. 02 (a) of the Loan Agreement is amended by deleting
the word "and" at the end of the paragraph.
2. Section 1.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement 's amended by replacing
the period at the end of the paragraph by "; and".
3 .   A new Section 1. 02 (c) is added as follows:
         " (c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement. " .
         Section 2.02 is amended to read as follows:
         "Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement .
         (b The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Bank
of Papua New Guinea (its Central Bank) on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. ".
      Section 3.03 (b) (i) is amended by adding after the words
"this Section" the following words "including those for the Special
Account".
6. The following Schedule 5 is added after Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement:
                            SCHEDULE 5
For the purposes of this Schedule:
         (a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
Page  2
         (b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2. Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3. After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account shall be made as follows:
         (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
      shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
      Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
      (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
      Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other
      evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
      the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
      requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
      on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
      deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
      shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said
      documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
      Special Account for eligible expenditures.
       All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
document.s and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of t:he Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
         (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
         (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5 . 02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Program, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
         Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of t:he
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
Page  3
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6. (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
         (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
         Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing
amendments by signing and dating the enclosed letter of
confirmation and returning it to us.
Yours sincerely,
Izzet zincir
Acting Director
Country Department V
Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
By: Authorized Representative
Date: 13/11/90
Date 
