Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY            F  L E  ( P 0 IY
Report No. P-2677-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
CF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KENYA POWER COMPANY LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE
OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
December 20, 1979
[ This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit   =   Kenya Shilling (KSh)
K L 1.00         =   US$2.67
US$1.00         =   KSh 7.5
KSh 1.00         =   US$0.13
L St. 1.00      =   KSh 16.0
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued at a fixed
rate of 9.66 KSh to the SDR the US Dollar/Kenya Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to KSh 7.5 which is close to
the short-term average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
kV ............Kilovolt                        = 1,000 Volts
kW  Kilowatt....Kilowatt                       =  1,000 Watts
kWh                          Kilowatt hour    =  1,000 Watt hours
GWh .Gigawat                 Gigawatt hour    =  1,000,000 Kilowatt hours
MW ...Megawatt.. Megawatt                      =  1,000 Kilowatts
CIDA      =       Canadian International Development Agency
CDC       =        Commonwealth Development Corporation
EAC       =        East African Community
EAP&L     =        The East African Power and Lighting Company, Limited
KPC                The Kenya Power Company Limited
SIDA      =       Swedish International Development Authority
TRDC      =        The Tana River Development Company Limited
TRDA      =        The Tana River Development Authority
UEB       =        The Uganda Electricity Board
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
KPC       : January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MENYA
OLKARIA GEOTHERU1AL POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNUARY
Borrower:              The Kenya Power Company Limited (KPC)
Guarantor:             Republic of Kenya
Amount:                US$40.O million equivalent.
Terms:                 Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 7.95% per annum.
Project Description:  The primary objectives of the project are to provide
a firm source of power and to assist in reducing dependence
on imported oil. The project consists of the drilling of
geothermal steam wells, the construction of a generating
station comprising two 15 MW units, and the installation
of 22 km of 132 kV transmission lines. Financing for con-
sulting engineering, training and studies of further
geothermal potential and the next power project is included.
The Implementation and financial risks are moderate.  The
technical risks appear to be normal for such underground
vork, since seven of the twelve wells already drilled have
been producing steam for an extended period.
Estimated Project Costs:                  Local          Foreign         Total
-----…(US$ Thousands)--
Preparatory Works
including (Loan S-12-KE)                6,500           9,000          15,500
Unit 1
Power Station and Transmission
Line                               13,090         13,410           26,500
Engineering                                400          1,100           1,500
Physical Contingencies                     760          1,570           2,330
Price Contingencies                      1,470          1,100           2,570
Total Unit'l                       15.720        ;17.180           32,90
Unit 2
Power Station                          12,870         11,200           24,090
Engineering                                270            770           1,040
Physical Contingencies                     400            870           1,270
Price Contingencies                     ;3,360          3,840           7,200
Total Unit 2                       16.900         16.700           33.600
Training                                     290            350             640
Studies                                      590          1,070           1 660
Total                                 {Q1          1.420
Project Costs (net of duties & taxes)  30,400            44,300          74,700
Total Project Costs                       40,000         44,300          84,300
Interest During Construction                 400          4,300           4,700
Total Financing Required                  40,400         4860089,000
This document has a ratricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:                          Local         Foreign         Total
-         -(US$ Million)-
Government of Kenya                         8.0           -             8.0
The Kenya Power Company Limited            21.0           -            21.0.
Commonwealth Development Corporation       11.4          8.6           20.0
IBRD 1/                                     -           40.0           40.0
Total Financing Required             40.4          48.6           89.0
Estimated Disbursements:                    13RD Fiscal Year
1980        1981        1982        1983        1984
- - - f~~US $ Mil lion)-
Annual                  7.0         17.0        7.0          7.0        2.0
Cumulative              7.0        24.0        31.0         38.0       40.0
Rate of Return:  11%
Appraisal Report: Report No. 2533-KE, dated December 20, 1979
Map: IBRD 14278 R
1/   Includes the amount required to refinance disbursements under the US$9-0
million Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project Loan (S-12-KE) when the
proposed loan becomes effective. The amounts undisbursed from the
engineering project loan would be cancelled on the same date.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KENYA POWER COMPANY LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR THE OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kenya Power Company Limited (KPC), with the guarantee of the Republic
of Kenya, for the equivalent: of US$40.0 million to help finance a geothermal
power project at Olkaria. 1,1 The loan would have a term of 20 years, including
five years' grace, with interest at 7.95% per annum. In addition, a proposed
loan from the Commonwealth D)evelopment Corporation (CDC) for US$20.0 million
equivalent for 15 years, including 3 years' grace, at 8.5% per annum would be
used to finance part of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 2/
2.        A report entitled "Kenya Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 2441-KE,
dated March 1979) has been dlistributed to the Executive Directors. A
summary of social and economic data is at Annex I.  A Basic Economic Report
on Kenya is now under preparation.
Economic Structure and Trends
3.        During the first sixteen years of independence Kenya has had con-
tinuity in leadership and development strategy.  That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement
of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and the promotion of accelerated
industrialization through incentives for private (including foreign) in-
vestment in modern industry.  While the death in 1978 of President Kenyatta,
who had led the nation since independence, initially raised some questions
about the future course of the nation, it is now clear that the country has
made a smooth transition to new leadership and that there will be continuity
in both the political and economic spheres.
4.        Kenya is a poor country with an economy still largely dependent on
agriculture. Average per capita income in 1978 was US$320 and agriculture
accounted for one-third of GDP on average during the period 1975-77. Agri-
culture provided about 60% of export earnings in 1977 and remains the major
source of livelihood in rural areas where about 90% of the population live.
1/   A part of the proposed loan would be used to refinance disbursements
under the US$9.0 milli'on Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project Loan
(S-12-KE) when the proposed loan becomes effective. The amounts
undisbursed from the engineering project loan would be cancelled on
the same date.
2/   This section is substantially the same as that of the President's
Report on the Baringo Pilot Semi-Arid Areas Project (Report P-2651-KE
of November 20, 1979).



-2-
5.        There has been significant growth and structural change in the
economy since independence. Between 1964 and 1977 total GDP grew at an annual
average rate of 5.8% although there was a sharp drop in the growth rate in
1974 and 1975 caused by droughts and the international oil crisis.   Popula-
tion grew at nearly 3.5% per annum over the same period, and real per capita
income, thus, increased at an annual rate of about 2.3%. During the period
1964-77 manufacturing was the most rapidly growing of the major sectors; value
added in manufacturing grew at 9% per annum. Agricultural output expanded at
4.2% from 1964-73, but grew at only 2.3% per annum from 1973-77. Over the
entire period 1964-77, average annual growth of agricultural production was
3.6%.
6.        Despite Kenya's impressive post-independence growth record, a number
of problems have emerged which will make it difficult to sustain growth and to
reduce poverty.
7.        The most fundamental problem is the rapid growth of popul2tion in
thI face of limited arable land. Of Kenya's total area (583,000 km ), 520,500
km is categorized as potentially agricultural, 13% being regarded as high
potential land, 6% medium and 81% low. While pressure on the land was allevi-
ated during the years following independence by the opening up of a large part
of the land previously owned by Europeans to settlement by Kenyan smallholders,
most of the high potential land is now densely settled. Furthermore, with
population growing at 3.5% per annum pressure is mounting. This is resulting
in increased subdivision and landlessness in high-potential areas and in
settlement in semi-arid areas ill-suited to farming.
8.        Rapid population growth is felt most seriously through the increas-
ing pressure on available agricultural land, but it creates other problems as
well. Even if the non-agricultural formal wage sector (which employs less than
15% of the total labor force) grows very rapidly, it will probably be unable
to absorb all the new labor force entrants because of its small base. Con-
siderable budgetary pressure has also been created because of the growing
demand for social services. Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of
income are impeded because of the relative lack of access to land and educa-
tion for the children of the poorest sections of the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon invest-
ments in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To
a lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African Community
(EAC) market. However the scope for further industrialization along these
lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities have
been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the industrial sector increas-
ingly dependent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts and
therefore vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain
growth it will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of
domestic inputs and increased production for export.



-3-
10.       An additional problem is the slow growth and lack of diversification
of exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP. From
1964-74 the volume of exports expanded at an average annual rate of 4.6%.
However, over the past five years export volume has stagnated at the 1974
level. To some extent th:is is a reflection of production problems in agri-
culture and industry, but it is also an indication of the need to direct more
resources into foreign exchange earning activities.
Economic Performance 1974-78
11.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulnerable
to swings in the country's international terms of trade. Thus, the growth
rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in petroleum and
other import prices required restrictive economic policies, accelerated
rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following frost damage
in Brazil worked its way through the economy, and began to decelerate in 1978
with the decline in coffee prices toward more normal levels.
12.       Fiscal and monetary policies were, in combination with incomes
policy, reasonably effective in restraining the growth of aggregate demand
during 1974-76, thus protecting the balance of payments and keeping externally-
generated domestic price increases from getting out of hand. However,
throughout this period there were increasing pressures on the Government to
expand its expenditures emanating primarily from increased school enrollments
and abolition of fees for the first four years of education; concerns about
national security; and th,e need to replace East African Community (EAC)
Corporations with national entities. With the "coffee boom" of 1976-77, the
Government decided to greatly expand budgetary outlays, both recurrent and
capital, to ensure that the additional revenues would be used for development
purposes. As a result, the budget deficit rose from less than 5% of GDP in
1976/77 to an estimated 9% in 1978/79. At the same time, the monetary author-
ities were doing little to limit the effect of rising foreign exchange re-
serves on commercial bank: liquidity and expansion of credit to the private
sector. As a result, domestic credit grew by an average of nearly 30% in 1977
and 1978. The combination of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policy and
the high agricultural inc:omes produced a resurgence of domestic demand and a
rapid rise in import levels. By the latter half of 1977, coffee prices had
passed their peak and begun to decline. As a result, the trade deficit rose
sharply in 1978 and the i-oreign exchange reserves were rapidly depleted. The
balance on current account deteriorated from +US$58 million in 1977 to -US$650
million in 1978, while reserves fell by US$200 million.
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
13.       The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is on restor-
ing growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating
poverty through creation of income earning opportunities and provision of
social services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan correctly
identifies the key problems that Kenya faces and sets forth a development
strategy appropriate to their solution. It is sharply focussed, explicit in
its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of constraints on development.



- 4 -
14.       The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes pro-
posed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing subdivision
of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes that a National
Land Commission be established to review ways of encouraging land use inten-
sification and labor absorption. The Plan also proposes that marketing and
pricing policies pay closer attention to the structure of domestic and inter-
national prices and the marketing system be made more competitive and effi-
cient to improve prices to farmers. Research and extension services are to
be more closely linked to the needs of small farmers. Finally, in addition
to projects to increase larger scale commercial and smallholder production,
a series of integrated rural development projects in semi-arid areas is pro-
posed to redress the neglect of these areas.
15.       The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency and
export diversification. This will involve further rationalization of tariffs
and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a five-year
period. This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over the next
few years when, because of balance of payments problems, there is likely to
be considerable pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protection.
16.       The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya's traditionally
liberal policy on foreign investment with the important exception that re-
view and approval of projects for which special concessions or Government
participation are being sought will rely more on economic criteria-and
will be centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls
for a more limited role for Government in terms of direct participation and
intervention. However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial in-
vestment incentives to encourage employment and decentralization. Finally,
while there are doubts in Kenya about how dynamic a role the informal sector
can play in the development process, the Plan is more specific in its recom-
mendations for aid to small firms (provision of financial and technical sup-
port and ending of unnecessary licensing and other restrictions) than the
previous Plan.
17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African coun-
tries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely high
(3.5%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors and even greater
efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in the birth-
rate.
Economic Prospects
18.       In spite of the generally well-conceived policy measures proposed
in the Fourth Plan, it will be very difficult to attain the Plan's targets,



especially the target GDP growth rate of 6.3% per annum. This is largely due
to balance of payments and budgetary problems which are likely to be more
severe and long-lasting than was foreseen at the time of Plan preparation.
The balance of payments position is likely to remain difficult throughout
the Plan period for three reasons. First, the terms of trade are projected
to deteriorate through 1982, largely due to the oil price increases and
unfavorable export prospects. Second, there has been a significant increase
in the level of commercial borrowing to finance large expenditures for succes-
sors to the EAC corporations and other large projects. Finally, prompted by
growing political tensions in Eastern Africa and the realization that the
country had spent very little on defense since independence, Kenya carried out
a major program to re-equip its armed forces in 1977-78. The equipment has
been purchased on credit; the repayment will have a substantial impact on the
balance of payments throughout the Plan period.
19.       The budgetary situation will also be tighter than foreseen in the
Plan. First, the balance of payments problem will constrain the rate of
growth of the economy and of revenue. Second, the President has recently
announced several measureEs which are not included in the Plan but which will
have significant direct budgetary consequences. These measures include:
(a) provision of free milk for students in the first seven years of school;
(b) elimination of school fees for the fifth and sixth years of elementary
school; (c) initiation of a national literacy campaign; and (d) a 10% increase
in employment in the public and private sectors in exchange for agreed wage
restraint. Finally, the iLncreased military expenditures will also increase
budgetary pressure.
20.       In order to deal with the balance of payments problem, the Govern-
ment has slowed the growth of credit, limited import license approvals, and
in December 1978 introduced import deposit regulations. These measures
should have some immediate impact on import levels. In addition, the Govern-
ment has adopted a comprehensive economic program aimed at keeping the loss
of foreign exchange resenres below US$133 million for 1979-80 combined and
at gradually reducing the rate of inflation to less than 10% in 1980/81
(compared to 12.5% in 19783). The Government's program has been incorporated
into a stand-by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund; the agree-
ment, which is for a period of two years, involves the upper credit tranches,
through the fourth, including the use of the Special Fund Facility, and
will make an amount equivalent to about US$157 million available to Kenya.
In addition, Kenya has been permitted to purchase the equivalent of US$89
million under the Fund's compensatory financing facility. The first drawing
under the stand-by agreement has already been made and subsequent drawings are
scheduled quarterly ending March 31, 1981.
External Debt
21.       The recent expansion of Government and Government-guaranteed commer-
cial borrowing has adversely affected the debt service ratio which has risen
from 5% in 1977 to an estimated 11.2% in 1979 including service payments
on a notional 50% share of the debt of the EAC corporations. The debt
service ratio is expected to increase to about 16% in the mid 1980's and to



-6-
decline gradually thereafter. Debt service payments to the Bank are 14.9% of
total debt service payments; the IDA share is 0.9%. The Bank's share of total
debt service payments is projected to rise to about 22% by 1985 while IDA's
share will rise to 1%. The Bank is presently holding 22% of Kenya's total
debt and IDA 9%; the Bank's share is expected to rise to 26% and IDA's to 15%
by 1985. The expected rise in Bank exposure is due largely to anticipated
repayments of loans with short maturities. An additional factor, however,
is the gradual switch by other donors from loans to straight grants (including
conversion of some loans to grants). Because of the long-term balance of
payments constraint, Kenya's development program will require substantial
financing in excess of public savings and available non-Bank Group external
capital combined. We therefore expect to continue our practice of financing
a substantial portion of total project costs, including some local costs when
necessary.
Impact of the De Facto Dissolution of the East African Community (EAC)
22.       The major developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312)
and more recent developments were outlined in a statement to the Executive
Directors at the Board meeting held on January 14, 1979. Dr. Victor Umbricht,
the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States, is continuing his
work on appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC corporations. The
establishment of national corporations to replace the former EAC corporations
has in some cases required large expenditures (para. 18), but the burden will
hopefully be temporary as the new corporations are expected to become self-
financing. The closure of the border with Tanzania has had some effect on
trade -- Tanzania was a large customer for Kenyan manufactured goods--but
new markets are being developed. As Tanzanian exports to Kenya were small,
replacing these has not been a problem except for specific commodities
(i.e. tobacco and cotton). The border closure has also had a slightly
negative impact on tourism, although Kenya is expected to overcome this by
developing additional beach resorts and game parks within Kenya.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
23.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 33 Bank loans, including three on Third
Window terms, and 27 IDA credits amounting to US$994.0 million, supporting 52
operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10
loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the development
of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for
industry), operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East African
Community. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Kenya and to the East African Community Corporations, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects as of November 30, 1979.
24.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy through increased lending in directly productive sectors, par-
ticularly agriculture. While recent sector and economic work has also
focused on the adjustments which Kenya must make to deal with the changed



-7-
international economy, the upcoming Basic Economic Report is expected to
comprehensively address the issues of income distribution, population growth,
and appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policy.
25.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank's lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distri-
bution objectives. Projects approved since January 1979 include a First
Telecommunications Project, a Highway Sector Project, a Smallholder Coffee
Improvement Project, the Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project
and the Baringo Project---a pilot scheme for development of arid and semi-arid
areas. A fisheries project, and a fourth line of credit to the Industrial
Development Bank have been appraised, as has a program credit to help address
Kenya's balance of paymenits difficulties (paras. 18-20). A technical assist-
ance credit for export promotion to complement the program credit is also
being considered. All of these projects are expected to be ready for con-
sideration by the Execut:Lve Directors later this fiscal year. In addition, a
railways project has been appraised, while an urban transport project, a fifth
education project, an industrial project for expansion of soda ash production
and a second population lproject are under preparation.
26.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.  Pro-
gress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project, however, has been slow due
to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners to participate.
Ken-,a has also experienced serious cost overruns, most notably on road con-
struction projects, but Government has made funds available to complete these
projects. Current cost estimates for the Bura Irrigation Settlement Project
(now in the preliminary stages of implementation) indicate that heavy cost
overruns are likely to be incurred; the financial consequences are under
discussion with the Government and the co-financiers.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
27.       IFC has committed a total of US$42.9 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale enterprises was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya. As of blovember 30, 1979, IFC held for its own account
US$31.9 million comprising US$23.9 million of loans and US$8.0 million of
equity. A summary of IFPC investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
28.       The major known indigenous energy resource in Kenya is hydroelectric
power. The hydro power potential of the country has been estimated at about
6,000 MW (30,000 GWh per year); however, half of this is located on small
rivers and is uneconomical to develop. The remaining 3,000 MW is on the Tana
River, but of this only about 800 MW or 4,000 to 5,000 GWh/year is realizable



energy potential. About 300 MW has already been developed through the con-
struction of three hydroelectric power stations--Kindaruma, Kamburu and
Gitaru--operating in cascade some 70 miles east of Nairobi. Firewood and
charcoal used extensively for energy needs in rural areas has led to de-
forestation on a very large scale.
29.       Surveys have shown no significant coal deposits in Kenya and the
geological structure of most of the country seems to preclude finding oil,
except perhaps in a strip bordering Somalia in the northeast. The Kenyans
have also had little success in their search for domestic gas reserves.
Further, the present political climate in East Africa inhibits full utiliza-
tion of possibilities offered by the interconnection of the national electric
grids of Tanzania, Uganda, and Kenya.
30.       Thus, the main source of primary energy in Kenya is imported oil
and petroleum products: over the period 1973-78, the consumption of imported
liquid fuels as a percentage of total energy consumption was about 80%.
Except for minor amounts of speciality oils and greases, most of the imported
crude is processed at a refinery in Mombasa. Between 1973-78, on average,
about 2.7 million tons of crude oil per annum was refined; of this total
about 1.5 million tons per annum was used domestically while the remainder
was exported to neighboring countries. During 1973-78, the value of net
imports of crude oil and petroleum products averaged about 17% of the value
of Kenya's merchandise imports.
31.       The oil crisis of 1973 clearly demonstrated the dangers of Kenya's
dependence on imported oil. First, the average economic growth rate of 6.5%
per annum achieved over the period 1964-72 was almost halved to 3.4% for the
period 1973-75, largely because of the international oil crisis and resulted
in higher import prices which forced the Government to enact restrictive eco-
nomic policies. Secondly, the impact of the oil crisis on Kenya's merchandise
import bill can be gauged through the dramatic rise in petroleum prices;
the average price of crude increased from K&6.5 per ton (1973) to Kb30.7 per
ton (1975) and was K1C39.3 per ton in 1977. Finally, the increased price of
crude, which rose much faster than the price of refined petroleum products,
led to Kenya having an adverse balance on its petroleum trade, while prior
to 1973, in value terms, Kenya was virtually in balance in its imports
and exports of petroleum products. The problem has been compounded by the
break-up of the EAC which has meant a loss of markets and stagnation in
shipments of refined petroleum.
32.       The Government realizes that Kenya's economy is very vulnerable to
sudden increases in petroleum prices as long as oil remains the major source
of primary energy, and substantial amounts of foreign exchange are expended in
paying for crude oil imports. Thus, the Government's strategy, as defined
in the Development Plan 1979-83, is to rationalize the use of imported
petroleum, and to develop and utilize domestic power resources as far as
possible to reduce dependence on imported oil.



- 9 -
33.       The search for viable alternatives for power generation has indi-
cated that the next logical hydro plant, Kiambere, which has not been studied
in detail, cannot be brought into service soon enough to meet the expected
shortfalls in energy supply. In addition, the high estimated cost of gas
turbine and diesel fuel preclude them from being viable alternatives. Thus,
the most attractive alternative at the moment is the geothermal potential at
Olkaria in the Rift Valley near Lake Naivasha. The Olkaria site has been
systematically investigated and explored and, according to estimates, should
be capable of supporting power generation of 100 MW and possibly as much as
200 MW. Two other potentiLal geothermal sites, at Lake Hannington and Eburu,
have not yet been explored but it is expected that, with further drilling,
geothermal power could malce a significant contribution to meeting Kenya's
power needs.
The Power Sector
34.       The availability of power to consumers in Kenya is, in general,
limited to the central, and south western sections of the country and along
the south east coast. OnLy 6% of the total population has access to elec-
tricity, resulting in an average estimated consumption of electrical energy
of about 90 kWh per capita in 1978.
Organization and Management of the Power Industry
35.       The generation and supply of electricity in Kenya is undertaken
by three companies: The East African Power and Lighting Company Limited
(EAP&L), the Kenya Power Company Limited (KPC - the Borrower) and the Tana
River Development Company Limited (TRDC). EAP&L was founded in 1922 by the
amalgamation of two private companies then in existence. It is responsible
for planning and coordinating all power development and is the sole distri-
butor of power in Kenya. The Government owns about 60% of the equity of EAP&L
while the balance is privately owned. KPC and TRDC were established by EAP&L
with Government participation. KPC was set up in 1955, primarily to finance
the interconnection with Uganda and to sell the imported power to EAP&L. TRDC
was formed in 1964 to develop the potential of the Upper Tana River. In 1971,
however, to enable Government to increase its participation in the electricity
supply industry, the Government acquired all the shares of KPC and TRDC,
although their staffing and management is integrated into EAP&L under a
management agreement. Further, EAP&L purchases the entire output of KPC and
TRDC at ascertained cost, and is the only company with surplus revenue earning
capacity. KPC has now been selected to implement the geothermal power project
to enable full Government ownership of the proposed investment.
36.       EAP&L is a well-managed utility and is operated in accordance with
sound commercial principles.  Although the number of expatriate staff has
decreased from 189 in 1970 to 56 in 1978, EAP&L will have to continue relying
on expatriates for some years to come until qualified Kenyans can be trained
to replace them.  The present staff are fully experienced and competent
to operate the companies, and to carry out the proposed project and other



- 10 -
works covered by EAP&L's development program. A consultants' report (issued
in January 1978) containing recommendations for improvements to the structure
of the organization and its accounting and management systems has been studied
by EAP&L, and implementation of many of the recommendations began in July
1979.
37.       The Government is in the process of rationalizing the structure of
the power industry by integrating all three companies. The present arrange-
ment, although complicated, is operating efficiently and it is not of signi-
ficant importance if a reorganization cannot be achieved in the short term.
Existing Facilities
38.       The existing interconnected generating capacity consists of hydro
(306 MW), steam (98 MW), diesel (32 MW) and gas turbine (30 MW) for a total
capacity of 466 MW. This is augmented by a 30 MW bulk supply from the Uganda
Electricity Board (UEB) under a long term agreement extending to the year
2005. Although this increases the total installed capacity on the inter-
connected system to 496 MW, the effective capability is reduced to 460 MW due
to derating of some of the older diesel and gas turbine plants because of age.
Gross output in 1978 was 1,529 GWh mostly generated from hydro (1053 GWh).
39.       The major generating stations are interconnected by 132 kV and 33 kV
transmission and subtransmission lines with distribution voltages at 11 kV and
415/240 kV . The system is linked to Uganda by a 132 kV double-circuit trans-
mission line for the transfer of the 30 MW bulk power. The supply of power is
reasonably reliable. The losses in the system amount to about 10%, which
appears reasonable.
Electricity Consumption
40.       The rates of growth in the five main electricity consuming areas
in Kenya over the period 1972-76, were as follows: Nairobi 6.9%, Coast 9%,
Western 10.6%, Rift Valley 11.3%, Mount Kenya 10.7%, giving a weighted average
of 8%. The industrial and commercial sectors are the largest consumers
of electricity in Kenya and over the period 1972-76 they accounted for about
67% of all power sales. Most of the future sales increases are also forecast
to be in these sectors, particularly the industrial sector. The fluctuations
in demand are illustrated by the annual increase in demand of 11.7% in 1977,
8.1% in 1978 and expected increases of 9.1% in 1979, 9.9% in 1980, 8.5% in
1981 and falling to 7% in the mid 1980's.
41.       Further industrialization, however, would be dependent on the avail-
ability and reliability of electrical power. In 1977, the firm energy avail-
able was 153 GWh below that required and in 1978, even with the addition of
the Gitaru hydroelectric units (para. 49), the shortfall in firm energy was
142 GWh. During some periods, it has been necessary to disconnect certain
areas from the system in order to reduce the demand to the capability of the
available generating plant. It is thus evident that to meet the growing
demand for power in Kenya, the installation of additional generating capacity
is urgent.



- 11 -
Development Program
42.       The Government continues to attach high priority to the development
of the power sector in view of its importance for the overall economic devel-
opment of Kenya. Moreover, the need to formulate a comprehensive national
energy development plan hals become generally recognized by the Government
since the 1973-74 energy crisis. Thus, to meet the development objectives for
the energy sector as defined in the Development Plan 1979-83 (para. 32), total
investment by the Government over the Plan period in generation expansion,
transmission and distribution is estimated at US$226 million of which US$59
million has been allocated for the geothermal program. The large allocation
(about 21% of total capital expenditure in the power sector over the Plan
period) reflects the Government's emphasis on geothermal development.
43.       Future developments include a power installation at a dam on the
Tana River now being consitructed by the Tana River Development Authority
(TRDA). The installation will consist of two 20 MW units and the output
will be fed into the EAP&L system. Storage of water at the dam is scheduled
to begin in the spring of 1981. EAP&L does not expect this to be a firm
source of power supply because, during the dry season, the water level will be
lowered and the head on t'he plant will be insufficient for power generation.
The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has recently approved a
loan for the construction of a 220 kV transmission line between Mombasa and
Kamburu, to augment the existing 132 kV line. KPC has also requested UEB to
increase the power exported to Kenya; however, such an increase is unlikely in
the near future, since Uganda has been unable to supply even the contracted 30
MW on a continuous basis due to inadequate plant maintenance.
44.       Therefore, Kenya's future energy needs will be met by further
development of geothermal or hydro resources or by thermal stations using
imported fuel. Demand forecasts indicate that a new hydro power station will
be required at Kiambere by 1984 and additional thermal generating plant at
Mombasa is expected to be required by 1987.  Funds for feasibility studies
to determine whether Kiambere, geothermal or conventional thermal projects
should be undertaken are included as part of this proposed project (para. 57).
Rural Electrification
45.       The Rural Electrification Program is a Government initiated scheme
for the provision of electricity in rural areas.  Most of the funds for the
Program are channelled into a Rural Electrification Fund administered by
EAP&L. The finance comes from a number of sources. EAP&L apportions 1% of
its annual gross sales revenues (about US$500,000 equivalent in 1978) to the
fund. Funds are also provided from the interest differential between the soft
terms of a credit from the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA)
to the Government for the Kamburu project, and the Government's harder on-
lending terms to TRDC.  When funds from SIDA are exhausted, the program would
continue with funds from CIDA of about US$2.3 million equivalent to be
disbursed over five years. The development agencies would provide staff to
help implement the program. The Government's Development Plan 1979-83 has
allocated US$10.5 million over the five-year period for rural electrification,
a significant increase over the US$3.75 million allocated in the previous
Plan.



- 12 -
46.       EAP&L has spent about US$800,000 per annum on 22 schemes over the
period 1970-76. However, there have been a number of problems with rural
electrification programs in Kenya. First, there is a lack of demand in rural
households, because electricity is more costly than alternative forms of rural
energy and is used only for lighting; secondly, contractors are mainly con-
centrated in urban areas and are unwilling to undertake minor jobs in rural
areas; and finally, there are few village concentrations, and the scattered
households make distribution costly. The Government has, however, continued
to encourage the expansion of the rural electrification program in the belief
that an improvement of the social, commercial, and industrial activities in
the small communities will tend to reduce the migration to the larger urban
areas. Although none of the schemes undertaken to date are financially
viable, most are likely to become remunerative in time.
Previous Bank Lending in the Sector
47.       The proposed loan would be the fourth Bank lending operation for
power in Kenya. The previous loans -- US$23 million for the Kamburu Hydro-
electric Project (Loan 745-KE of 1971) and US$63 million for the Gitaru
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 1147-KE of 1975) -- were made to TRDC, while the
US$9 million loan for the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project (Loan S-12-KE
of 1978) was made to KPC.
48.       The Kamburu project was the second phase of the Seven Forks hydro-
electric development on the Tana River (the first was a hydroelectric power
station at Kindaruma). The project was designed to meet the demand for power
in Nairobi and the coastal areas around Mombasa, where most of the industrial
and commercial activities of Kenya are concentrated. The project consisted
of a rock fill dam on the Tana River, an underground power station containing
three 30 MW units, and the associated transmission line connecting the power
station with Nairobi and the Kindaruma hydroelectric power station further
downstream. The project was completed in 1974 about five months behind
schedule with a cost overrun of about 7%. The delays were not unusual for a
construction program of this nature, and the cost overrun was largely due to
currency fluctuations. The OED report on this project (Report No. 1230 of
July 14, 1976) observed that the project was well planned and the sales and
maximum demand forecasts were excellent. The financial performance of TRDC,
on a consolidated basis with KPC and EAP&L, during the project period (1971-74)
was satisfactory and as a result of a tariff increase in 1974, the rate of
return was 21% as against the appraisal estimate of 16%.
49.       The Gitaru project is the last phase of the Seven Forks Scheme
completing the development of the hydro potential of the Upper Tana River.
It is situated between the existing Kamburu and Kindaruma power stations, and
the three stations operate in cascade. The project was substantially completed
five weeks ahead of schedule in June 1978, with cost savings of about US$3.5
million under the Bank loan. The cost savings were almost entirely attribut-
able to unutilized physical contingencies, a reflection of the good prepara-
tion and implementation of this project. A Project Completion Report will
be prepared shortly.



- 13 -
50.       The loan for the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project became
effective on April 30, 1979. This project, the first phase of the development
of geothermal power in Kenya, is located near Lake Naivasha.  It is a pre-
liminary, though essentiaL phase of the proposed Olkaria Geothermal Power
Project (para. 55).
51.       The power indusitry in Kenya has generally demonstrated a sound
technical and managerial approach to project preparation and implementation.
The record of EAP&L and its associated companies for timely and effective
action in meeting the requirements of legal convenants and obligations under
previous Bank loans is excellent.
Bank Strategy in the Power Sector
52.       The Bank's continued lending in this sector would assist in financ-
ing investments to meet Kenya's requirements for energy, technical assistance,
the training of Kenyan personnel to fill middle and senior management posi-
tions now held by expatriate staff, and studies on the utilization of existing
energy resources to meet the needs of the country. The Bank is also proposing
to assist in meeting the projected shortage of rural energy in Kenya through a
forestry project, which would include fuelwood development on both private and
Government land. Although the search for domestic oil and gas reserves has
been unsuccessful so far, Government intends to continue the exploration
program and assistance may be requested for further oil and gas exploration.
53.       This project would be the first development of geothermal power in
Africa. It may well lead to a series of such projects in the Rift Valley
since this area has shown great potential to supply geothermal energy at an
economically attractive cost. The Bank is keeping abreast of geothermal
activities by closely following studies being carried out in other countries,
particularly Ethiopia, where UNDP has recently funded a large investigation
program similar to that for the initial phases of the Olkaria project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
54.       The project was proposed to the Bank in January 1978 after UNDP
and Bank-financed studies of the Olkaria geothermal field had demonstrated
significant potential for development.  The Bank helped finance the prepara-
tory drilling under the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Loan (S-12-KE). The
proposed project was appraised in November 1978. Negotiations were held
in Washington in Septembe!r 1979. The Kenyan delegation was led by Mr. D.
Mwiraria, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Power and Communications. A Loan
and Project Summary is given at the beginning of this report, and a Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Olkaria Geothermal Power Project" (No. 2533-KE of
December 20, 1979) is being distributed separately. A Supplementary Project
Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.



- 14 -
Background
55.       The Olkaria geothermal field is located south of Lake Naivasha
about 100 km northwest of Nairobi. In 1970, extensive investigations and
surveys were initiated by KPC, with UNDP assistance, in order to deter-
mine the feasibility of developing power from the available steam. As a
result of the studies, between 1973-76 UNDP provided more funds to cover
part of the costs of a further drilling program for six deep wells. The Bank
subsequently financed additional feasibility studies for a proposed geothermal
project from proceeds of the Gitaru Hydroelectric Project (Loan 1147-KE). The
studies, completed in October 1977, confirmed the feasibility of the proposed
project. KPC thus reactivated drilling operations in March 1978 and sought
Bank assistance for the power project. The Bank provided an engineering
loan (S-12-KE) of US$9.0 million for part of the costs of preparatory works,
estimated to total US$15.5 million. The need for the engineering loan arose
because of the risk associated with the development of geothermal resources,
relating particularly to the volume of steam and its temperature and pressure
characteristics. Thus, the funds were used to drill production wells for
the proposed generating station and the Bank proceeded with appraisal after
80% of the steam requirements for the first unit was proven.
Project Description
56.       The primary objectives of the project are to provide a firm source
of power and energy within the country to meet the growth of demand expected
from 1981 to 1985 and to assist in reducing the country's heavy dependence on
imported oil. The project is the least cost means of adding to the existing
generating plant to achieve these objectives. A further objective is to
strengthen the power industry in Kenya, by the provision of funds for the
training of staff at all levels.
57.       The project would consist of the construction of an electric gen-
erating station comprising two 15 MW steam turbine driven generators, and
related transmission facilities. The steam would be provided by deep wells
driven into a geothermal reservoir some 1300 meters below ground level. It is
estimated that an annual output of about 95 GWh would be produced from each
15 MW unit. The proposed project has three distinct phases: the preparatory
works; the commissioning of Unit 1; and the commissioning of Unit 2. In
summary, the phases are as follows:
(a) Preparatory Works
The drilling of production wells for the steam
supply, the purchase of an additional drilling rig with
its associated equipment and supplies, and the provision
of drill operators and consultants.



- 15 -
(b)  Unit 1
(i)  The construction of a power house for one 15 MW
unit, complete with all ancillary electrical and
mechanical equipment, a system to bring steam
from the wells to the power house, a cooling
tower and other works associated with the
cooling water system, and roads and housing;
(ii) The switchyard and 22 km of 132 kV transmission
line to join the Kenya-Uganda transmission line
at Naivasha; and
(iii)  Consulting engineering.
(c)  Unit 2
(i)  Drilling of additional production wells;
(ii) The installation of a second 15 MW unit, its
associated equipment, and civil works; and
(iii)  Consulting engineering.
(d) Training and Studies
Training anLd studies of further geothermal potential
and the next power project.
Project Cost Estimates
58.       The total project cost, including the engineering project, is
estimated at US$84.3 milliLon equivalent; the net cost, excluding duties and
taxes is US$74.7 million. These estimates include adequate price and physical
contingencies. The project's foreign exchange component is estimated to
be US$44.3 million equivaLent, about 53% of total project costs. The cost
estimates, as of mid-1979, are based on contract prices for the major equip-
ment and civil works and transmission facilities, plus estimates for training
and studies for further geothermal potential and the next project. The total
financing required, including interest during construction, is estimated at
US$89.0 million. Details of the project costs are given in the Loan and
Project Summary.  Costs incurred prior to resumption of drilling operations at
Olkaria in March 1978 have not been included in the cost estimates.
Status of Engineering and Construction
59.       The project is being designed by EAP&L's consultants, Merz and
McLellan of the UK in association with Virkir of Iceland. It would be imple-
mented with the assistance of consultants (Geothermal Energy of New Zealand-
GENZL) who have been contracted to provide key staff for the operation and
maintenance of the drilling equipment and to train local staff in its opera-
tion. The consultants are satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
60.       The production wells have required an average of two months for
completion, including moving and setup times as well as the frequent delays
due to failure of the existing equipment. When the second drill (funded under
Loan S-12-KE) is put into operation in the fall of 1980, the rate of comple-
tion of production wells should be more than doubled. Of the twelve wells
that have been drilled, three have little flow and two are producing a limited
quantity of steam. However, it is expected that with further drilling the
power potential of the latter two may be increased. The output from the
seven successful wells is estimated to be capable of generating about 16.7 MW,
and this progress indicates that the on-line date of July 1, 1981 for the
first unit would be achieved. It is also estimated that sufficient steam
will have been proven by October 1980 to enable KPC to order the necessary
mechanical and electrical equipment, and to contract the associated civil
works for the second 15 MW unit to be commissioned on April 1, 1983. Funds
have been included to cover the costs of drilling production wells until
December 1982, both to provide a surplus of steam in the event that the
production from some wells may diminish over time, and for the generation of
additional power at some future date. If this program is successful, it is
anticipated that the drilling of wells would continue beyond this date.
Implementation
61.       While the proposed loan would be made to KPC, the major responsi-
bility for implementation of the project would rest with EAP&L, which manages
and staffs KPC under an existing management agreement (para. 35). Modifica-
tion of the management agreement to cover the requirements of the proposed
project on a basis that is satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Sections 4.04 and 7.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement and Section 3.04 of the draft Project Agreement). An engineer-
ing expert, whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Bank,
has recently been appointed to be responsible for supervision of drilling and
steam production aspects of the project and will continue to be so employed
(Section 3.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Consultants assisting with
project implementation (para. 59) would train local operators and, in addi-
tion, EAP&L's existing training programs have been expanded to meet the
specialized needs of this project. Details of the training program have been
agreed amongst the Bank, EAP&L and KPC. EAP&L would be responsible for
the monitoring and evaluation of the project; existing systems for gathering
information and statistics are satisfactory, and agreement has been reached on
specific requirements related to the proposed project.
Financing
62.       The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million would finance about 54% of
the estimated net project cost (US$74.7 million) and 90% of the estimated
foreign exchange cost (US$44.3 million), in both cases excluding interest
during construction. Part of the loan would be used to refinance the total
amount disbursed under Loan S-12-KE on the date the proposed loan becomes
effective. The amounts undisbursed from the engineering project loan would be
cancelled on the same date (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). A
proposed loan from the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) of US$20
million equivalent would finance the balance of the foreign costs and part of
the local costs. External financing would thus amount to US$60 million or



- 17 -
about 75% of the total financing required less duties and taxes. The Bank
loan to KPC would be for 20 years with a 5 year grace period at an annual
interest rate of 7.95%. The CDC loan to KPC would be for 15 years with a 3
year grace period, at an interest rate of 8.5% per annum.
63.       Local costs would be financed by KPC (US$21 million) through a
development surcharge (para. 72) on electric power sold by KPC and TRDC to
EAP&L and other borrowings, a government equity contribution (US$8.0 million
of which US$5.3 million has now been paid) and part of the CDC loan (US$11.4
million). Effectiveness of the CDC loan would be a condition of effectiveness
of the Bank loan (Section 7.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government
agreed that if additional funds are required to complete the project because
of cost overruns, it would provide the additional financing in accordance with
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
Procurement
64.       All funds to be provided under Loan S-12-KE will have been committed
for the drill rig and accessories, drilling supplies and consultants and about
US$2.5 million disbursed by the end of 1979. Implementation of the proposed
project has necessitated advance contracting in order to avoid delays in
the scheduled on-line date for the power station. The specialized nature of
the equipment has meant that sufficient time has to be allowed for the manu-
facture, shipping and installation of major items. The issue of advance
contracting was discussed in the Engineering Loan documents (submitted to
the Executive Directors in October 1978), where it was estimated that advance
contracting requirements would be US$13.5 million. However, on receipt of
tenders for various items of equipment, it was found that costs had signifi-
cantly increased. It is now estimated that the contracts awarded, whose
foreign costs would be financed by the Bank, amount to about US$22 million.
The Bank financing required would be about US$14 million. The contracts are
for the mechanical and eliectrical equipment for Unit 1, the switching station,
engineering and studies. Retroactive financing of US$2.0 million is recom-
mended to cover expenditures after January 1, 1979 for the initial payments
under these contracts. In addition, although KPC holds an option for the
supply of mechanical and electrical equipment for Unit 2 of the power genera-
tion plant, it was agreed that KPC would not place any orders, award any
contracts nor incur any debts on account of goods and services required for
the installation of this unit until evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been
submitted indicating that steam required for the generation of 24 MW of
electrical power (i.e. 80% of station capacity) is available (Section 5.04 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       Procurement for work and material to be financed under the Bank
loan has been or would be in accordance with Bank guidelines for international
competitive bidding (ICB). In comparison of bids for equipment procured
through ICB, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of
15% or the existing customs duty, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of
competing imports. However, due to the very specialized nature of the equip-
ment and supplies involved, only the civil works and housing and roads con-
tracts have been awarded locally. Contracts of less than US$100,000 (expected
to total about US$3.0 million) would be awarded on the basis of limited
international tendering procedures.



- 18 -
Disbursements
66.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed over a four year
period. All disbursements would be fully documented. The Bank would finance
100% of the foreign expenditures for the preparatory works, the mechanical
electrical equipment, the switching station, engineering, training and studies
for further geothermal potential and the next power project. The remaining
foreign expenditures and US$11.4 million of local expenditures would be dis-
bursed from the CDC loan. The closing date of the loan would be December 31,
1983.
Financial Aspects
67.       The activities of the three companies comprising the power sector
in Kenya are closely connected through common management. The financial
position of KPC should, therefore, be evaluated jointly with that of EAP&L
and TRDC. The consolidated balance sheet of the three companies shows that
at the end of 1979, the total net assets are expected to be US$457 million
and the debt/equity ratio 35/65. It is apparent that on a combined basis the
three companies are conservatively capitalized. The three companies also have
adequate working capital and satisfactory cash positions.  There has been good
control of debtors; accounts receivable amounted to only a little more than
two months' billing at the end of 1978.  Net income of the three companies for
the year 1978 was US$25 million which is satisfactory.
68.       The forecast of the consolidated requirements and resources of
funds, after eliminating inter-company payments of TRDC, KPC, and EAP&L, for
the period 1979-82 shows total construction and working capital requirements
of the three companies, including the proposed project, estimated at about
$240 million: 38% would be financed by net internal cash generation after
providing for debt service and dividends, 2% from increase in share capital
by the Government, 1% from CIDA grants and the balance mainly by borrowings
(of which 16% would be from the proposed Bank loan, and 7% from the proposed
CDC loan).
69.       Debt Limitation.  No long-term debt would be incurred by EAP&L,
TRDC, KPC or any company to be established in the future as a bulk licensee
selling power to EAP&L without prior Bank approval, unless cash earnings
before provision for depreciation are at least 1.5 times the maximum debt
service for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt including the debt to
be incurred (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement; Section 4.04 of the
draft Project Agreement).
70.       Tariffs.  On the basis of a power tariff study completed by the
Bank in 1977, a new tariff structure was introduced throughout the country
in January 1979 and is estimated to bring an average revenue of about 42
Kenya cents or US 6 cents per kWih in 1979. EAP&L has agreed to make adjust-
ments to its tariffs and take all necessary steps to maintain, together
with KPC and TRDC, minimum rates of return on the value of their combined
average revalued net fixed assets in operation of not less than 6% in
1980, 7% for 1981 and 1982, and 8% thereafter   (Section 4.01(a) of the draft



- 19 -
Project Agreement). These rates would provide the companies with adequate
working capital, satisfactory cash positions over the project period, and
provide approximately 38% towards their capital expansion. These rates would
be lower than those previously agreed. The rates in 1980,,1981-82 reflect
in part the less favorable mix of energy sources, that is, a greater depen-
dence on high cost imported fuel than is expected for the medium term when
hydroelectric and geothermal sources become available.
71.       Accounts and Audit.  The financial statements of TRDC and KPC,
individually and combined, are prepared on a depreciation accounting
basis and the financial statements of TRDC/KPC would be combined with those
of EAP&L. The individual annual accounts of TRDC, KPC, and EAP&L would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and copies of the
certified financial statements and o' the auditors' reports would be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the end of the financial year.
Development Surcharge
72.       EAP&L has agreed that, to meet KPC's cash requirements during
the construction period of the project, EAP&L would pay to KPC a development
surcharge at a rate of 2 Kenya cents per kWh of energy supplied to it by
KPC and TRDC. However, the requirement of funds would vary from year to year
depending on the pattern of disbursements and other factors. Thus, if this
rate is inadequate to provide the local currency funds needed for tne proposed
project in any year, EAP&L would provide additional funds required up to an
amount which would make the rate of return on the two bulk supply companies in
respect of any year equal to 8.5% of their average revalued net fixed assets
in operation. Net fixed assets are to be revalued annually on the basis of a
price index system satisfactory to the Bank, which will take into account the
replacement values of their assets as well as fluctuations in the value of the
Kenyan currency (Sections 4.02(a), (b) and (c) and 4.01 (b) (ii) of the draft
Project Agreement). The Government would guarantee that it would take all
actions necessary to permit EAP&L to obtain revenues sufficient to achieve the
agreed rates of return (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Environmental Considerations
73.       There are no inhabitants in the immediate area of the proposed
power station so that the disposal of gases in the air, particularly the
hydrogen sulphide, would not be objectionable. Periodically, it would be
necessary to blow off steam for pressure stabilization and well maintenance,
but with suitable prctection the noise would be within acceptable limits for
the operators, who would normally be stationed in an air-conditioned control
room.   Housing for the operating staff would be located some distance from
the project site, where the gases would be diffused and the noise levels
minimized. Since the underground flow in the area is away from Lake Naivasha,
there is no possibility of waste water contaminating the lake.
Justification and Risk
74.       The project would help meet Kenya's anticipated increase in power
demand from 1981-85, while the longer term objective would be the reduction
of the country's dependence on imported fuel. The development of Kenya's



- 20 -
geothermal potential would complement the existing hydro facilities in provid-
ing a firm power supply base. Furthermore, the relatively small incremental
size of geothermal investments would enable Kenya to tailor increases in power
supply more effectively to growth in demand, and the latter advantage is
particularly attractive given the overall resource constraint facing Kenya.
75.       The need for the project was analyzed in a least cost development
study of the power sector prepared by EAP&L's consultants and submitted to
the Bank in December 1977. The study indicated that the alternatives were
limited and that only two possibilities, geothermal or diesel, should be
considered. A comparison between these two alternatives, using 1979 oil
prices, showed that the proposed geothermal development is preferable; the
equalizing discount rate being 25%. The proposed project would thus ensure
that the demand for power in Kenya by 1981 would be met at the minimum cost.
Using the 1979 tariff structure averaging KSh 0.42 per kWh, and using shadow
prices for foreign exchange, the economic rate of return is satisfactory at
about 11%.
76.       The implementation and financial risks are moderate.  The greatest
technical risk is the amount and characteristics of the steam to be obtained
from new wells since some may prove unproductive. The risks would be minimized
with the employment of consultants with extensive experience in similar
geothermal work in New Zealand and Iceland. The risks appear to be normal for
such underground work since out of the twelve wells that have been drilled,
seven have been producing steam for an extended period of time and it is
expected that with further drilling, the power potential from another two may
be increased. The seven successful wells are estimated to be capable of
producing all the steam required for the first 15 MW unit. In addition, the
experience gained each time a well is drilled increases the probability of
success on succeeding wells. In order to reduce the risk from the corrosive
nature of the steam, various types of steel have been tested and the results
of these tests have been used in determining the specifications of the mater-
ials to be used in various components of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and KPC, the draft Project
Agreement between the Bank and EAP&L, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Republic of Kenya and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of
the Loan and Project Agreements are referred to in the text and listed in
Section III of Annex III.
78.       Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan include:  (i) the
fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the CDC Loan
Agreement except the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement; and (ii) the con-
clusion of a modified Management Agreement satisfactory to the Bank (Section
7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 20, 1979



-22-                                               ANNEX I
MYA -  OCIAL INtCATORS DATA SHIET
KIftA                     lIrZNCE GROUIPS (A""U5TED A)RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO.  .)                                                  -   S  RECENT EStIMATE -
TOTAL            582.6                                                                SAM      RmT HIGIIER
AGUCULTURAL       59.4                                 IST UCEZNT      OORAPHIC   INCOY           INCOt£
1960  /b    1970 lb rSTS7TF /b       UGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /I
MUI PER CAPITA (US$)                 110.0        170.0     320.0           306.1      209.6        467.5
ENERGY CONSUM'TON PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)     143.0       135.0      152.0            80.6       83.9        262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, KID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      6.0        11.3       14.6
AN  POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 7.4            10.2      11.S            17.1        16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPOLAtION IN YZAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       30.0
STATIONAXY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         94.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULTlON 15 UXACD                     2135
POPULATION DENSItY
PER SQ. Km.                       14.0         19.0      25.0            18.4       49.4         45.3
PER SQ. Il. ACRICUTTUIAL LAND    142.0        191.0    246.0             50.8      252.0        149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUU (PERCENT)
0-14 YnS.                         46.5        45.8       47.0            44.1       43.1         45.2
15-64 YIS.                         51.0        51.6      50.0             52.9       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND AhOvt                   2.5         2.6        3.0             2.8        3.0          2.J
POPULATION CROWTH KATZ C PRCENT)
TOTAL                              3.2          3.4       3.8             2.7        2.4          2.7
URAN                               5.8         6.6        7.0             5.7        4.6          4.3
CUDME SIXT  RATE (PR THOUSAND)      51.0         50.0      51.0            46.3       42.4         39.4
CRUDE DtATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.0         15.0      14.0            17.2       15.9         11.7
GROSS REPIOOWCTION RATE               ..          3.4       3.8             3.1        2.9          2.7
FAKILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TUSANDS)         ..        30.9       48.4
USERS (PERCENT OF K£aED WOMEN)    ..           2.2         ..              ..       12.2         13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         103.0        102.0      89.0            94.3       98.2        99.6
PR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT Of
REQUIREMENTS)                  103.0        98.0       91.0            89.5       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)          75.0        71.0       59.6            55.8       52.1         54.3
Or WNICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       32.0        29.0       22.8            17.9       13.6         17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY LATE     25.0         18.0      14.0            22.3       18.5         11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTSH (TEARS)    47.0       52.0       53.0            47.0       49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          126.0/f      119.0                        ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PtRC11N OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                          15.0      17.0            20.3       26.3         34.4
UR8AN                               *-        100.0     100.0            53.9       58.5        57.9
RURAL                               ..         2.0       4.0             10.1       13.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               '-        50.0       55.0            22.3       16.0        40.8
URBAN                                         85.0      98.0             62.5       65.1        71.3
RURAL                               ..        45.0      48.0             13.9        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10000.0      7830.0/g  8840.0/         17424.7    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2.320.O/f ,  1700.0i 1070.01h          2506.6     5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            830.0ff     770.0    760.0/i           502.3    1417.1         726.5
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            201.4      197.3       272.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..           1403.6    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..           ..        ..            23.4       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               .-         4.7         *-             4.9        5.3          5.4
UR BAN                              .          4.7        ..              4.9        4.9         5.1
RURAL                               *-         4.7         ''             5.5        5.4          5.S
AVERAGE S1MBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..         ..
URSAN                              2.5/f         ..       ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..         ..              ..       22.5         28.1
URBALN                                           .         ..              ..       17.8        45.1
RUKAL                               ..          ..        ..               ..         ..         9.9



-23-                                           ANNEXI
?age 2
IFZtYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UzNTA                     RE14FERCE GROUPS (AOJUSTED AVE IAGg
- HOST RECE2T _STtMAT!)
SAM6E       SAME      1ZT HICrER
tosT REZCET     eOCGAP1IC    INCOMIE       124C1E
19fO /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c  CROUP /d    OtOUP /t
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
P11211AR:    TOTAL                 47.0        64.0      105.0            59.0        63.3        82.7
1l^LZ                64.0         74.0     112.0             64.2       79.1         37.3
FRKALZ               30.0         53.0      98.0             44.2       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   OTAL                   2.0         9.0      15.0              9.0        16.7        21.4
.ALZ                  3.0         12.0      19.0             12.0       22.1         33.0
F1K%.                 2.0          5.0      11.0              4.4       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)    ..          2.0        2.0             7.0         5.6         9.8
PUpIL-TEACm RATIO
n hV.A2                            * 2.0       34.0      33.0             42.2       41.0         34.1
SECONDIAY                          15.0        21.0      24.0             22.9       21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERC!NT)        20.0/!      30.0       40.0            20.8        31.2        54.0
CONSU1MPTION
PASSLiSGER CARS FU THOUSAND
POPULATION                          8.0         9.0        7.3             4.0        2.8          9.3
LADIO IZCEIVEUS PER TROUSAND
POIVLATION                          9.0          .-       38.0            44.3       27.2         76.9
TV ZSCEIVU PEUt THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         1.5        3.0             2.9         2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER (MDAILY CEEEAL
nmYRsr ) CltCULATION PER
TiOUSA.ND POPULATION                 13.0        14.0       10.0             5.6         5.3        18.3
CinEMA ANIIUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0          ..        0.4             0.4         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUADS)        3300.0      5100.011  6100.0
FEMALE (PEICENT)                   34.8        33.6       33.3            31.9       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              S5.8        82.1       79.0            77.6       69.4         62.7
nMUSTRY (PERCEFT)                   5.1         7.1       9.0              7.9        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION4 RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.2        40.6       39.2            40.8        36.9        37.1
MAUl                                 56.5        53.8       52.3            53.9        52.4        48.8
FEMALZ                               28.2        27.4       26.1            25.6        L8.0        20.4
ECONlOHIC pEPELDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.1        1.2             1.2         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTIRIJUTION
PCENT OF PRIVATE 7ICOME
51CEIVED BY
RICHEST 5 PtRCENT OF BOUSlIOLDS      ..        20.2/k       ..              ..          ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEROLDS    ..         52.6/k       ..              ..          ..        48.2
LOWiEST 20 PERCENT O  SOUSEROLDS    ..         3.97w      ..               ..          ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF ROUSEROLDS      ..        ii.77k       ..              ..          ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      122.0           187.6       99.2        241.3
RURAL                                ..          ..       93.0            96.8       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      125.0           138.4       91.9        179.7
RURAL                                ..          ..       71.0            71.0       54.8        103.7
ESTI22ATED POPULATION BELoW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY LNCCKE LEVEL (PERCZNT)
tRBAN                                ..          ..      25.0             34.5       44.1         24.8
iURAL                                ..          ..      SD.0             48.7       53.9         37.3
Not available
Nor applicable.
NOTES
/a    'he adjusted group averagts foir each indicator are populatiou.-eighted s*omecri: n"ns, excluding :he eaxrome
values of the indicator and the most populared country iL eacb group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicacors decends on availability of data and is rot uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise norted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, becween 1969
ad 1971; and for Most Recent lstimate, between 1974 ad 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   td  Low Income ($280 or less por capitra  1976);  le  Lower Middle Income
7T281-550 per capita, 1976);  'f  1962;  L/  Registered, roc all practicing ia the country;   /h. 1978;
Ji  1972;   /J Labor force age 15-50 years;   /k  urban only.
lost Recent Estimate of ONP per tapts, is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 24-                                                                              ANNEX I
ff~  lt~gh  hindat  as  b  r   mosegine1~Jud.d  b.  ~    mttaIe. MA reliable, it  ld-     ma- be lotebd thet taq  MF .t be let....
o~e.eebe boom  of th  lack o   mt~se    Isflctiose   ~oinee1e moedby litfresot Ometrim   .   t    to leteg . a. a the  data      emr.  bev.eo,
osftlo to dMe,le,b ardet of mihadte, iedieat. teaWe*  and abretie  oste.te Rajlo  dirfoeref-  bet..-   inet
fo~      oe  ah loleat., a,re poyelotio-eeighted g...etrio  -0, atoladle  the metree  %ela.  of the Ledl.oato MA the  e.t p2
to lack of data, geoP   ,-.A_ of .U  tedlecto.  te Cvital &Sorges  oil vpter. 0.4 ofreitt.  of Andes be wete  -d moes"
fhpsl, .e-ig, thom  ri.1,,ibtiot Sod lAWoty rO- otbO  cmt.7   0015  -r popaleti0.m5*gIted gemmetrit  e-    eitbt Molsi.. of tbe ..tre    aLes. Ml
the cot poplated otoaty.  gif t. e                  ot tw                         toe             0.         ii      f data      is toet 0.52f     C   10. im t
- otl so' aearea ooWrti.ig lad  -ce. sd tloald ester. .o.ep1   btl  at.   e 10ge)1ftodbevetaee.
~?or  to__l.M-est renet ..tijt. of swiost-cl, aeae -ed t-prerily                           poeategea  of their eepsetiee i,pl.i             .  e,et  disoeal NW        lmms
orprostyfoe orope, pe.tor.., srket sod kitobs  g-rdea  or to                      the oo.11-tio, aed daspoal, cith Wr tith-st t1-temt, of                 eseret.
lie fatllo.                                                                               0501 nete-atn  by ..to-boroe  y.tin  or the  Me. of pit p.ieies             sodlor
0: pCW~- SP per ompita ..tleat.. at ourrmt  -ket Prio.                                P.b ia              *I.t    .Popu."to    dlvided by sanabe  of  eacti.ieg pW'ailei
oal.oltoy -n. o-nrot  cethod as VorT  leak Atlas (1976-78 bess);                             ci~fl 7             a      obool at siees~ity leve.
196o, 1970, sd19178 data.                                                                             Me                     Popoiatten, dIvided by  -"~e  of paeetioieg  Oa.o
- IT    Aaool  -ooostie  of eoseei,.all --an                       0.d feele Ier*ot.   s5*  p-reettOal mrae * sd asalotet -re..
"t.1Oa  gS. -d~ hydro, ~ oe -,  Idg-                     Posltomleie   e     oa.ac..m    ea       oacis(oa   oct.
th.r, 11elotric!ity  tokleMe of oool  quiralect per ospita; 1960od rral) diided b  thei  repst=wtos~ro  beia  bg   silbe
1970, sod 1976 dea                                                                          pblio sad privtet. gms-a1 Sd opeotli.ed isostpita1 sad rehbiitati-soetr
iHoopILIa are .st biis-ots P..eowetly .tffsd by at l-eat eas oii...
POPULATION AIFD VITAL STATIBTICS                                                              1.tablis-ot. providlog prioolpally osstodlo. .-s  -s ot iecsded. 0.5.1
Tota  F=sitioo. Xlfyes    aIlli---) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, sod                         hospitalo    oevr  lwcod. health 0.d odial O,etots  oot Pee,etly stfed
1977  aa                                                                                 by *  aeio(Zi by a -edloal a.sitat, Mef. aidoif.,  t.t.) ehleb offer
UrbnOsltit(eoo ofttl      otoo   ra  to total  Io.aio;                                      l-patist aomai Aso  P-oide a h.ttd roogs of md.540  facilitie..
d,feetdotito   ofubaqoe.lf-ffete                       taaility of data                Adi1-EfTIpa    e  - Total .ake  of add5ioas to or dischage. fro.~
sacg  eut,is116, 1970, acd 1975 data.                                                    hospitals              b  tiie heih  0.6cr of bed..
Fbvoe,ti    I.   .  RW- Corret population  ro,  etos  re basedo               KOJAIR
1975 tt3    jjUitiot by oge ad ..o .1 utheir cortality end fertility                 A-erade Sloe of ihefmhsd lorosope   ogeod)-toa.ule.        eoe
rate. frlectoc praeeors    or ct.lity ratesesfr    of tk...                   A househld coe.     t   fa  rtP ofiM =v&sseose.  idgqatr   a
leve.. 1 ssualg lif-aq-pet-ol at birth it-o-e- ing subt -ootoy e                       their sMLo  -.J..  A Weeoder or lodgr My or my sot is iac1iodd i. the
Per o-pita i-e  level, sd Ce-le life eopootaocy  tabilosing at                         b-usbold for etti.tiesJ. isPose..
77.5 yoars.i The psere-tor. for fertility rote alo ha.e tarot I.-eI.                 Aveg  ssie   fnese               o S  tota. s         _in.a  roa  - Avers. s.b6r
aoeoeiO  de-li-e I  fertility accrdiog to lo          level and past                   of peso   e   -   n           uta,sdrrloooui   o otiooal Iseilisga
f-ineiy elacolg perfors- . Earh ooottry Is thea a.ig.ed oct of thes...etiey   DleeUir4p  -oolud  a-pevese-t  t-trotue  sad u.tcptd prt,.
oioe o:loetiooe of eortaluty sod fertility treed.s for projevtioo                    Alless to Ilsotr it  (peets ofWdsllegs      oal   re.                   to -ICoo-
p.rpose.                                                                               oetoo   efig    toelerot   ahl.qsiers asp                              -eete   rf
St.ti-7r powlati.. - lot o sttioooy popoltioO  there to .o groth                          tot.I, u-bao, td -rural doeliog  respectively.
sioce th. birth rate to oqal to the death r.to, sod also tho see
sttuotre retto  ootsnt. Tis is. ahi-rd osly after fertility r.tos                  EDUCAIOTNG
d..li.. to the roplecost leel of  it cot r-prodsetioc rate, cite                     IU -t  IAo110t Ratios
Iach geerotioc of  -a repl-e  itice1f  -otly.  Tb.  tatiocary pop.-                    Primm  i~hoF T satso    al                     Gostotal, eal. so  fel.  -coII.
lotion siss   o..etiated on the basis of the prolsted oharaoteesti-s                      Mot of oil sess  t1thd pIsy  leve  as peosoo f reepettb- pri-eey
ofthe p;oleti.ao  10 the y-o  2000, and tie rote of deoii- of fertility                 o-hool-see pop.latioo; oor-aIly icolud.. ohildro. sed 6-11 year  bt
rate to rplsonet level.                                                                  sd.otsd for differmeti Leogthi  of prisoy sduetboo; for .oot,ties  ith
Ye-r stti""ry woooleti.. L reached - The year feb, stattooary Po.oatIon                     :     -nveoa  edotioe sao.11eot My eaeed 1.00 peent sioc    -  puil..
slo  ha hse= reachd.                                                                     atelno   hvteofficiea  .chooi  Wg.
Pooolatiooiestoicedoysho  totl. cOle ss  If=u                                                                                                - C.W,tsd assle;sodar7
Per s. As. - Mid-year popultio. per sqore kilocter (100 heotares) ofedootios reqires at lat Ct   er   f apeo"ed Proy i.ttorutioo;
total are                                                                                pr-vides georsl votiooel, or teacher tra.los   ioetrutioo-  foe popils.
Poe ... he. sm:i.tooltr. load - Ceqt.d as above for serioultors1 lod                       uou.ly of 12 to 17 roar  of see; oorresod . .   .ouv.es.ore st-er-ly
P.oula,tion Age Sttenotu,re (ernt) - Child.e. (0-14 years), eo-kiog-sge                    Ocootiooal sooleet ( ertt ofso                 y) - Vooatiooa1 iotatltioo. i-cIud
(15-i4 Year), so eird            y- er  sod ovr) os pertectege  of mid-year                teohita, oe       srl, L.r  thr    grer    shich operate indepedtlyora
poPsslatioo; 1960, 190,sd 1977  dSt..                                                       departeets of  -eoodtsy Iootitutioe.
Posolatioc Gro-th bate  peeeerot) - total  A- doa xroeth rates of total aid-                Popil-tellhe rai--oier. o  s oay  - Total studeots  -co1ed In
year POpItlatoc  for 195o-, 1970-70, so  19T0-77.                                           prss   odsooor   ees dive  by ooo-r  of teachrs to tieh oro
fooslatioo 10,5t  Set.(e,, -eet) - rbac-  dA..al groth rates of urban                         epoodlg I-levl.
yPul..tdoo  for 15           907,os 1970-75.                                             Adult litrercy rste *pr ...t) -Litrate sdu1ts (oDle to read sod -rite)a
Cr.d. Pifth Set              ootalLive hirtho pee thoossd of eld-                    operoetse of total adult popatioc seed 15 years  od over.
Y,a  P.Ylatioea      790 sd17  dat..
-dsnldeaths Pee th.oosd of aid-year            CONbMl'fICS
popslatioo;197171970iiid1977  data.                            Passeoer~       ~     ~    ~ Coe -e tisod oso.t)-P.... ger  -sr  -ori.e  ct.r or
9C0!...rSs~Oa~ts -Avroge otabee of d-,ghte-  so,  iii bear                           settle. les  thC   eiht person; eld.s osb.1-ne., hearses sd military
to he 'raoeslrep       tb -Period if she.ooi e  prr...nt see-                           Rehicle..
speoli c fertilit  rates; .usua1y five-year oversees e.die.t  1960,                    Rdi be-eicrs (per thooscd osletioa) - All types of recivers for eadio
1970, sod 1975.                                                                          broslatst   eorlpulcPee thosad of pptolatioo; ecludes ooli-eod
faOyPlono--,    Aoooeoo.d ua  Atou                  -,s  - 00.  n e  of                 reernr  in coontrins sod 10 year  4h-e registrab-tc of- r-.dt  set,  oe
-ecptors of birt-oo tro   eie   ne   nposo  osti...l f.ely                                effect; det  for recen  years  oy cot be  -oeparable  los  moot coutries
planin  progrs.                                                                           abolished licening.
Foaily flssoiss  - Users (pre          M o   are    -oe     - P-ertetge of   oriod       TV eivr  tbper thoteso   poIoltiL) - TV r-ivers for broadost t. g.-erai
sonoo  chlld-beai.  e                     h.-b  ecs   b   -  birtb--otrol devi-n      pobl  per thuad  ecltion;  -oldsulice...ed 7V reeiver. 10  -ottoie
to all sorrid 000 i.0t   - gese  gerop.                                                   sd ic yea-  shec resist-tio  or TV sets sto Ioeff-t.
_________________                                                    5sws~~~~~~~K-Pa.D,r Ciroultio  (nor thouan   orltio)- hs  the tvere  teato
FOOD AiDlS NTITISI                                                                            ofdaily genera-1 itetret osper,dfnd aopeidclpbhitootion
0000Ofrod  eouoic pr                Ltia)1 ;:71li0      neoo   e  o iaCcted prisaily to  eodn   georal onto   it io c-idered to be 'doily"
-oooa  prod-tio    f  i  fodridte.               outioces  lu.dos seed sod               If It  ppkr  et 2east foo  ti- s ao kc.
feed sod isoL.    ldryerbasis.  fo-odittins  -oce  prissof goods                         oe.      uaAtedoe pe  CaPita oer Year - based 00 tie  -uhr  ftikt
(eg  egrn  lsted of sugar   hib ar  edibl  sod cootai  tuireOt.                       sold during the year, 1o-lodito mded-ooi     to driv-i. ci-a  sod -bll t
(e-g. coff.. sod tea        ..e oolded).  Aggrg.gt. produetio  of eah -outry              -fit..
is based -0 o.ttIoa   .vre  producer prios esieb
Per capita s.oP    o   slore  (rrsto   eussets   - Coepotd fr.                       i,ASiR FORCE
ecery eqoivstto  ne   od pp I                 _s ovtshein co.try per -apito           otlabror t  Wto-td) tooniai                         i-Ov  Persons, i-olding  -ra
per dy.  Avalal  suple  cWrise doesto prodntioc, laports loss                          fords sd   oeeLoynd bit -ooldin  housolv-, Otudects, etc  Defthiti-,io
eoports, sodechun`ges f  in soc  .Net supplies  -o lde aise] feed,ndo                  10  -ni...  -cntrlnsoo- tot  parabl..
qucotitins nerd in food proeoIog, sod loF.-oI.orhoio.  euip .-tn) - F.-eIe labor force as percetge  of t.tal labor foeve
etot iternd not,tdZbyFAl boned,o  orystlAgiol oetd forptrslt  - Labor,force in forong, fo-etry, buntig sod
aciiysd that  osIde%n 1Z OciroisWctal teepertur-, bod  ceigito,                       fishing s  percentee of total labor foc.
ego aod  -r  di.tributi.o.sof popultiv-, ed alo-ing 10 Perceot for                   :odostry (per ...b) - Labor forc  to doing,  OOtr -,t,aofact-rg sod
ote at honehoId level.                                                                electricity, Otte  sod gS.. to pror tege of total labor frc.r,
Per0010 soPol of protelo (.r-e ee- doy) - ProOtioco-t-t ofpe                         Poctiviratio   ae(elc)    oa    oe   o   fe le -  articipatioc o
c-pit. oet sopply  fof ud Per dy. Set eopply.of food I. defoda                           ctvt   aesaecmtds   oal   ae   o  fettle  labo  foc  aspr
abov.-  Reqoirnents for all  -utries establishd by USDA provide for-                   cottges of total, male sod f-tle popnltIoo of all aerspectively
010.i-.. aowoo  of do grse  of  .tota  protein Per d, sod 20 groe  of                  1960  1970, sod 1975 data.  Thes,eore 11,0, Partipti- rates reflecting
nOal sod poise proteio, of sich 10 gasse  sho-ld ho sl.1 proteis.                       Wg-so struture of the popolatio, sod long ti    trend.  A fee estimate
Thes  standard  ar  tI...r taco those of 75 groa  of total protein sod                 aef ro  OtioO.l sucs
27 grms ofacia.l prtelo  s sooverse forthe  orid,propoed b  PAP  otovlo DeP;scy Ratio          I' Rtio of popootioo  ted.r 15 sod 65 sod over to
it the Tird Oorld1 Food lor,ey                                                         th_ao ov  to see group vf 1564 years 
per cpt  rtl   -upyfo   oelsd ptie - Protein supply of food
deriv-d frot animals sod pue   in. .ra  prdsy.                                     n1iI  DISTRI3JTIOR
Child (ace. 1-4) -.rt:l Ity bte (per thousad) - Asicutideaths per th-.sad                 Pecnaeo   rvt  ooe(both Ic cash sod kind) - Received by riohest
to  ge  rop 1'.  eas,  o   htldreo toths  g  group; for  eot dvl-                 5p05,ries                 erotport20Peroeot, sd poorest 40 percent
oping  -otiri- Otto derivd from life tables                                              of ho...holds.
HEALTH0POVERTY TARGECT GR0OUPS
lfe1 tocoany01t Bilti lyror)   Averg .ucber of years of life                              Eteloated Abeolote Porrty lovoce Leve (Us    E vpit.) - urba sod rurl-
rtolga   1th;    i  190,ad 1977. data.                                           Aboolute poverty iOoelvl ota   acc   ee  below   hich    alital
iofst MrtaityOtt (cv ioosnb    A- Otnl deaths of i.fants oder on.otritvol.. ly sieipiate diet plot  -enetio1 too-foo   euvcoo 50
pes  of  geg  Per tbounund lire births.                                                   Off-rdabi,
Acvv.. to  Safe Water Coerret of pooultiFo-ttl.uho anErrat-Oilted telotiv- Po-ety iooe  ee  (os! Pe, oapit: - nrba  sod rurl 
Rubrofpol  (tota1, -ris,, sod rua    ith r-sobe  cest                                     Vr   .rltive povrty ice   eni   n-hr   faesepropt
-af  sat- eupply (iociudes trested  ufo   atero to untreaTtedht                           P-ronal iccae of tie  -out-y. Gribn lre-I i  derivd foot the rurt level
-ootsoioatvd otte  suh ao ltht fooa protevted borhoics, springs,vith sdj..taeot for uherh cost of living I0 urban area.
sodounOno  0.1,)asP-reotge- of their  -ep-rti-e oopoiati... T-                  IOtiatd Porootic Oe-v Abdisoot Oceo  ooelee                      trn       - orho sod
soabo  aespoblic foutain or stoidpost Icoted ot --r thanrrl     ooo   fpplto   niu   o   wa)syerosi                                                              or
200  oders fro..   hous  My be ....sidernd as being  ithio  reasonable                                                                                   ..t
--oesoof thst h.....  10 rura  or eas r......ble             ...sa Iod ieply
toth:tInloe   eo  nebmn If theftvosehcld do nt have to epada                                                                       o-no    sod Gv-i.i Dtto licjio-
diorrP_ cI-tot   atof thedsp io ftching the focily, swattraeds                                                             oovi   oAl.ystI td POJm-ti... DeP-trtet
A.ugut 1979



- 25 -                                                                     ANNE  I
KENYA
Economic DeveloPment Data Shoot
1977
Actual                                   P-eJ.aeL Proiected                                        Ave;        Anu7 a    of '95  1         Share of
1972       1973      1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1983       1990           -7          -         95-0            (3DP
A.  National Accounts
(Mill-oc 002 at 1976 prices)
1.  GDP                                 2883.5   3084.5    3216.4    3237.2    3415.5    3680.8    4169.9    4474.9    4699.1    6166.1    8280.8                  5.0         5.8          6.1           100.0
2.  Gains f-oc TT                       +180.3   +145.0       +45.0      -37.3       -         255.7       45.6       10.9       25.7        7.7       94.7          ..9
3.  GDY                                 3063.8   9229.5    3261.4    3199.9    3415.5    3936.5    4215.5    4485.8    4724.8    6173.8    8375.4                  5.1         5.6          6.3           106.9
4.ipop                                  1429.5   1394.2    1475.6    1157.0    1127.6    1295.1    1803.6    1721.6    1671.8    1944.5    2504.8                 -2.0         1.1          5.2            35.2
5.  Expotst - iolupe                    186.7   11945.4    1280.4    1041.6    1142.4    1184.2    1205.9    1239.2    1282.1    1682.5    2188.                   1.7         49           5.4            32.2
6.   poepo-t  - TT odju-tPd             1267.0   1290.4    1245.4    1004.3    1142.4    1440.0    1251.5    1250.1    1307.8    1690.2    2282.7                  2.6         4.4          6.2            39.1
7.  R.ource Gap - Ttadjued               162.5    103.8       230.2      172.7      -14.8    -144.9       556.1      471.5      364.1      254.3      222.1          .           .             .          - 3.9
8.  rotal Copoumption                   2437.7   2634.5    2519.3    2713.8    2687.1    2933.9    3721.9    3835.5    3918.3    4986.0    6801.0                  3.6         4.3          6.4            79.7
9.  ioopppooop                           768.6    698.8       972.3      658.8      713.7      857.8    1049.6    1121.8    1170.6    1442.1    1796.6             2.2         4.6          4.6            23.3
la.  National SavconB                     613.5    478.8       592.9      423.7      630.2      912.4      460.0      639.0      770.8    1163.8    1597.8          8.3        14.2          6.5            24.8
01.  Donoptnp  Savings                    605.1    595.0       742.1      486.1      728.4    1002.6       493.4      650.3      886.5    1187.8    1574.5         10.6        13.3          5.8            27.2
12.  GDP op cuccent 01                   2019.9   2368.1    2847.9    3151.4    3415.5    4427.8    5507.9    6442.8    9164.3   14079.8   22504.9                 17.0        14.4          9.8
B.  S-cto- Sotp-
(Shoto of GDP at thp 1976 prioes)
1.  p5opo1oppor4ng Isdustry               10.8      11.4       12.0       11.9       13.3       14.1       31.7       31.7       31.6       30.3       28.4       10.7         4.7          4.7
2.  Agricnlturc                           36.8      36.1       35.3       35.1       33.9       34.4       14.9       15.4       15.4       16.7       20.1        3.3         7.1         10.0
3.  oth:r                                 52.4      52.5       32.7       53.5       57.8       51.5       53.4       52.9       53.0       52.9       51.5        4.3         5.2          5.5
C.  Prices
1.  tnporc Psict Iodcx                    52.3      60.8       83.4       92.5      100.0      132.6      129.4      142.5      154.4      201.0      268.6       20.8         6.5          6.0
3.  Import Index                          44.2      54.0       80.4.      95.9      180.0      109.;      122.8      140.2      150.1      199.7      252.7       19.8         7.2          4.8
3.  trops pf r,adc                       111.3    112.6       103.7       96.5      100.0      121.5      105.4      001.3      102.9      100.7      106.3
4.  5DP Deflstoc (US5)                    70.1      76.8       88.5       97.3      100.0      120.3      132.1      144.0      195.0      228.3      271.8       11.4         8.1          3.6
5.  Avergs c txchangs R0t.
MW5/01,                           2.800    2.837       2.800      2.700      2. i40     ?.41'.       2.59       2.66
D.  Sclpstsd lpdicetors                           1965-20   1972-77   1978-85   1985-90
1I  ICOR                                             3.0       4.8         4.6        3.9
2.  Impost IloE tlc-iy                               1.0      -0.34         .07       0.86
2.  Avcsogc D$omto-ic Sosiogo Ruts                  19.0      29.0        16.9       19.3
4.  Averago Nacionol Savings Rato                   18.6      18.6        16.8       19.7
5   hasgini- Natitpol Savings Rote                  02°2       0.38        0.42       0.16
6.  1epportto/Cp                                    29.8      49.9        35.0       30 .7
1.  InvcscnIpt/lOGD                                 20.3      23.3        24.1       22.5
4.  Rcspurcc Gaps/GDY5                               4.7       2.8         7.1        3.2                  As. Annuol
it. Rote
F.  EbPlosy-pt                                       1970       1975       1976       1977       1978       1970-78
(Thon ponds)
1.  Lobor Posts Totl                                  ..    6400.0
2.  Ange Lmnplomont                                 644.5      891.1      857.5      902.5      911.5         4.4/
.7 '11! ...                 31970171    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    19,75,76    1976/77                          977/78
1.  RecurrenstospRcnoe                             124.0       141.6       149.0       190.4       226.3 3      69.2       311.1       474.t
2.  Rscussoot Enpondineon                          110.4       128.7       139.6       162.7       207.4       246.8       285.1       431.1
3   Rccunsret Susplus                              013.5      '12.9         +9.4       .27.7       +18.9       +22.4       +29.0       +43.5
5. Dcsclopcett PcsjssP
F,r nogo 6 Other
Slospllaooonn lecRipto                          0.4         0.4         0.6        J1.3                                 6 -  4.4    2,0
3.  Fostign   I'lctl                                 7.8         1.8         0.5         3.2         8.2         7.0        10.5        17.2
t. -c1-p As-lOlcbl  lop
Ft_ocing Dtpolop-opt
E.np-ditnro-                                    14.7        15.1        10.5       31.5         27.4        29..        45.9        62.7
7.  OD-slop-ont Ispeod,tosc-                        46.5        51.9        61.6        67.4        94.2       126.i       124.7       236.8
d.  lverall Ipfisit                                -31.7        36.8       -51.3        359       -66.8       -9t69       -78.8      -174.1
9.  F...nci-g of thc   vftitit
Eltss--l Loans                               10.9         11.5       24.7        14.5         20.1        43.7       29.8         50.0
[Pomestic
l.ong-cotm  sossossag                         8.1         15.6       21.3         66.8        15.3        52.d        25.0        90.0
short-tserx socrttitg                        15.0          1.0         6.8         2.9        12.7 3_.5              29.7         5.5
Grants                                         0.03        0.02        0.02
changes to Cosh daloncen
(Increase -)                                   -2.4        -0.5        +1.5        +5.t        4 8.4      -32.)        -5.8       t2d.6
I/ B-sd on 1964 pc-cs.                                                                                                    E61i,   A
O,ttot- 23, 0979



- 26 -
ANNEX I
KENYA
Balance of Paments and External Assistance
(Million US$)
Actual                                         Preliminary                             Proiected
1972        1973         1974         1975         1976         1977        1978         19~79        `[1980       1985         1990
SA.   S ry of Beiance of Peymens
1.  Exports (Icl. NFS)                                560.0        698.6      1005.5        963.6       1142.4       1569.7       1475.5      1630.0       1818.2       3132.5       5449.6
0.  Imports (Inl.  NFS)                               632.0        752.6      1237.3       1128.3       1127.8       1412.4       2090.8      2210.9       2296.6       3516.6       5822.3
3.  Resoorce Balance                                  -72.0        -54.0      -231.8       -164.7         14.6        157.3       -615.3       -580.9      -478.4       -424.1       -372.7
a.  Net Factor Service  Income                        -34.1       -101.9      -101.1       -111.8       -130.4       -170.3        L42.4       -133.8      -180.1       -282.2       -352. 9
6.1 Net riterest Payments of which:                   -15.7        -16.5        -18.6       -21.4        -27.1        -30.7        -25.8        -76.1       -102.2      -144.0       -118.1
(Interest on Public M & LT Loans)               (-20.2)      (-22.1)      (-25.0)      (-26.2)     (-30.7)      (-38.8'      (-39.4)      (-52.5)      (-65.6)    (-147.8)    (-193.4,
4.2 Direct lovostment tncome  (Net)
a.3 W-rke-s Remittance (Net)                 )        -18.4        -85.4        -82.5       -90.4       -103.3       -139.6       -111.6        -57.7        -77.9       -138-2       -234.8
6.4 other  'actor Service Income (Net)
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                            38.1         22.2         19.3        50.0         32.3         71.3        103.1        119.7        133.0       239.9        408.2
6.  .alanc.  on Current Account                       -68.0       -133.7      -313.6       -226.5        -83.4         58.2       -614.6       -594.9       -525.6      -466.5       -317.5
7.  Private Direct Inve-tment                          42.8         89.4        116.5        39.A         55.2         74.4         77.7         87.0         95.8        179.3       288.6
8.  Capital Cranto                                     44.4          8.3         22.9         30.8        40.3         40.3             -
Publtc M1 & LT Loans
9.  Disbursements 1/                                   79.2         86.4         92.8       119.;        188.0        180.8        414.6       454.3         541.3        695.1       941.7
10.  Amnrtizotion 0/ 2/                                -13.7        -15.9        -18.3       -16.0        -30.9        -43.1        -76.9       -96.3        -161.1       -306.3       391.0
11.  Net Disbursement 1/                                65.5         70.5         74.5       103.7        157.1        137.7        337.7       358.0         380.2        388.8       550.7
12.  Use of IMF Resources                                0.0         -0.6         53.5         51.6        18.9         43.7          7.7        114.4         76.1        -40.0       -30.0
13.  Short-term Capital Transactions                     5.6         15.1         31.1         31.1        17.4          7.7             -            -
14.  Capital Transactions, n.e.i.                      -65.1        -17.6        -14.6       -24.2       -101.3        -45>7          38.2        62.1            -
15.  Change in Reseves (-   increase)                  -25.2        -31.4         29.7         -5.5      -104.2       -228.,        113.2        -26.6        -26.6        -61.7      -492.0
B.  Grants and Loans Commitments
1.  official Grants 3/                                 44.4          8.3        22.9         30.6         40.3         40.0
.2.  Public M & LT Loans                              101.0         98.1        150.1        396.C       211.9        321.2
2.1 IBRD                                               29.0         34.0         10.4       193.5         31.0         84.0
2.2 iDA                                                28.0           -          33.5        25.5         14.0         36.0
2.3 Molti:jateral                                         -          1.1          3.6          7.2        10.8         39.3
2.4 Governments                                        24.4         61.4        122.6         74.4        35.3         61.3
of which ceetrally planned eco.noies              -           0.3          -
2.5 suppliers                                           2.3          -            -            4.0        56.5          -
2.6 Financial Institutions                             17.3          1.6          -          91.4         64.4        100.7
2.7 Donds-
2.8 Public Loans, n.e.i.
3.  Other M & LT Loans (shore available) 4/            33.0         23.2          6.9          3.6         7.5          -
C. Memorandun Items
1.  Grant Eleme.t of Total Coomitments 5/              44.8         43.6         66.5        23.0         23.0         36.5
2.  Aneroge Isterest (Percent)                          4.3          4.3          2.1          6.9         6.4          5.2
3.  Average Matarity (Years)                           29.2         25.6         36.7        24.6         17.5         25.6
1/  Inclcdes financing of projected balance of payments deficit (1978-1990)oo srdios,h-rd bleod terms.
2/ Ioclodes repayment on military loans.
31 -Isclde- technical assistance grants.
4/ Represents e notional 50 percent of loan comnitmenat for EAC projects
57  Represents gr-nt element of losns.                                                                                                                                      iAN, CPIA
october 23, 1979



- 27 -
ANNEX I
KENYA
Debt -/and Creditworthiness
Actual
1972      1973        1974        1975        1976        1977
A.  Medium and Lone-term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US$ Million)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period) j/            475.1      549.8       633.2       694.5      820.9       970.5
2.  Including Undisbursed 2/                                  709.2      820.2       990.6      1289.8      1445.2      1765.5
3.  Public Debt Service   3/                                   33.8       38.9        44.6        43.8        63.2        72.5
3.1 Interest                                                   20.2       22.1        25.0        26.2        30.7        38.8
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                                    . 
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                          6.0        5.6         4.4         4.5         5.5         4.6
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                            1.7        1.6         1.6         1.4         1.9         1.6
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                      8.1        7.9         7.5         6.0         8.2         7.3
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                             4.3        4.0         3.9         3.8         4.0         4.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                7.1        7.1         7.0         6.3         8.2         7.5
D.  Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (inl.. NFS)                    12.5       11.5         7.5        10.6        16.7        12.8
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                           10.4        9.4         6.0         9.2        13.9        10.9
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                           82.7       81.6        80.3        86.6        83.6        76.2
E.  Exposure
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements               39.9       49.1        33.0        63.4        45.2        24.9
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross TotLal Disbursements        48.5       70.7        48.9        70.5        53.0        35.3
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                         19.1       23.6        24.9        33.4        37.9        35.6
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                   30.9       38.2        39.9        48.3        52.0        49.2
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                       21.6       28.7        27.2        34.5        46.7        48.2
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                 23.1       30.6        28.6        36.4        48.4        50.1
Outstanding Dec.  31, 1977
Amount           Percent
(US$ Million)
F.  External Debt gDisbursed Only)
l.  IBRD                                                                   276.3              28.5
2.  Bank Group                                                             388.2              40.0
3.  Other Multilateral                                                      20.8               2.1
4.  Goverrnments                                                           403.6              41.6
of which centrally planned economies                                  0.1                -
5.  Suppliers                                                               29.2               3.0
6.  Financial Institutions                                                  84.6               8.7
7.  Bonds                                                                   44.1               4.5
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.                                                       _
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt 1/                                            970.5             100.0
10.  Other M & LT Debt 2/
11.  Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                                 1751.1             180.4
12.  Total M & LT Debt (incl. Undisbursed)
1/  Includes Kenya's share of a notional 50 percent of EAC debt.
2/ Excludes military debts.
3/  Includes repayment on military loans.
EAN, CPIA
April 4, 1979



- 28-                           ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of November 30. 1979
US$ Million
AT?unt (Less C a7cellations)
jrei  #   Year  Borrower   Purpose                                Bank-   TW    IDA-   Undisbursed
Seven (7) Loans and twelve (12) Credits fully disbursed           96.0            74.1
224        1970  Kenya       Road Maintenance                                   12.6         1.6
826        1972  Kenya       Nairobi Airport                     29.0                        0.6
932        1973  Kenya       Highways                            29.0                       0.8
946        1973  IDB         DFC I                                5.0                        0.1
468        1974  Kenya       Population                                         12.0        0.4
477        1974  Kenya       Livestock                                          21.5       17.1
993        1974  Kenya       Tea Factories                       10.4                       2.7
1093        1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                    7.5                        7.5
537        1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                                   7.5        4.0
1105        1975  Kenya       Site and Service                     8.0                       8.0
543        1975  Kenya       Site and Service                                    8.0        0.1
565        1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry                             10.0        0.2
1132        1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry               9.9                       4.8 2/
1133        1975  Kenya       Transportation - Pipeline           20.0                       0.3
1147        1975  TRDC        Hydroelectric Development           59.5                       2.9
1148        1975  IDB         DFC II                              10.0                       0.3
1167        1975  Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.0                          15.8
1184        1975  Kenya       Education III                       10.0                       8.8
650        1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development                       10.0        8.8
1303-T      1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development                 10.0             10.0
1304-T      1976  Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                         17.0             13.6
651        1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                                  4.0        2.4
1305        1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                   4.0                       4.0
1389        1977  Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                  25.0                      17.5
692        1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                            20.0        7.1
1390-T      1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                       5.0              5.0
1438        1977  IDB         DFC III                             20.0                      13.6
722        1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement                          6.0        4.4
1449        1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement          34.0                      34.0
750        1977  Kenya       Small Scale Industry                               10.0       10.0
1520        1978  NCC         Second Nairobi Water Supply         30.0                      28.5
791        1978  Kenya       Second Urban                                       25.0       25.0
1550        1978  Kenya       Second Urban                        25.0                      25.0
797        1978  Kenya       Education IV                                       23.0       22.5
S-12        1978  KPC         Olkaria Engineering Loan             9.0                        6.6
1636        1978  Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation                72.0                      72.0
1637 3/    1978  Kenya        Rural Water Supply                  20.0                      20.0
858        1978  Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                     13.0       13.0
1680        1979  Kenya       Telecommunications                  20.0                      20.0
1684        1979  Kenya       Highway Sector                      90.0                      90.0
914 3/    1979  Kenya        Smallholder Coffee Improvement                     27.0       27.0
Total                             678.3    32.0 283.7        556.0
of which has been repaid          23.8       -    1.3
Total now outstanding             654.5    32.0 282.6
Amount sold                  11.8
of which has been
repaid                     10.2   1.6
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/          652_9    32.0 282.6
TOTAL undisbursed                           383.8    28.6 143.6        556.0
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/   Includes US$3.8 million undisbursed grant participation.
3/   Not yet effective.



- 29 -                         ANNEX II
B. Summary Statement: of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed
by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of November 30, 1979
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                   Bank 1/    Undisbursed
…     US$ million-----
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours                 35.0           0.6
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                 42.4           0.4
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Harbours                 26.5            0.9
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications        32.5           4.1
1204-EA   1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.0             5.9
Total                                          244.8           9.6
of which has been repaid                      52.8
Total now outstanding                          192.0
Amount sold                       24.4
of which has been repaid    24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bankc 1/                     192.0
Total undisbursed                                9.6           9.6
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 30 -                         ANNEX II
C. Projects in Execution 1/
(As of November 30, 1979)
There are currently 33 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: US$10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Although international tea prices have dropped from the extra-
ordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop. Yields continue to rise, and from 1979/80
onward the appraisal projections are likely to be exceeded. The project
factory building program is behind schedule and, due to cost escalations,
funds from the Bank and Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) loans will
cover only 12 of the 17 factories included in the project. However, the OPEC
Special Fund has agreed to finance the foreign exchange cost of 3 factories
under the project, and CDC has agreed to provide additional financing for the
remaining 2 factories. CDC has also advanced financing for their Fourth Plan
covering factories outside the project, and by June 1980 a total of 15 fac-
tories (12 under the project and 3 others) will be operative. The standard of
Kenya Tea Development Authority's management continues to be high, and insti-
tutional improvements together with strengthened staffing should further
improve performance. An economic analysis of the project indicates that
despite substantial cost increases the economic rate of return on investments
in new tea factories is over 40%.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock:  US$21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date:  December 2, 1974; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and recruitment of ranches is
very much behind appraisal estimates. In spite of the satisfactory livestock
price structure which was adopted in early 1978, removing the most serious
constraint to ranch development and viability, recruitment of ranches continues
to be slow. Some progress has been made in organization of the pastoralists
in the range development components. In addition, Government services in
ranch water development planning and in the company ranch sector have been
improved. Only two commercial ranch loans and eight company ranch loans were
approved in 1978/79, and the Agricultural Finance Corporation's disbursements
for coast company ranches are being held up pending agreement on satisfactory
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-31 -                         ANNEX II
security arrangements. Group ranch loan processing also remains slow, and
unless there is a substantiLal improvement in extension services in the pastoral
areas, particularly in Masailand, the project goals of adoption of more
commercial and efficient livestock production will be difficult to achieve.
The project continues to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1093-KE/CrediLt No. 537-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
US$7.5 million Loan and US$7.5 million Credit of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. Few new farms have come under
rehabilitation in the past two years for a variety of reasons: legal, social,
political, and financial. Physical rehabilitation work on participating mixed
farms and coffee estates is satisfactory. Coffee estates are achieving
recoveries in yields, and mixed farms are generally expanding areas cropped
and improving grazing. However, achievement of a satisfactory rate of finan-
cial rehabilitation on most mixed farms is in doubt. The recommendations of
the Large Farm Sector Study (financed under the Project) have prompted Govern-
ment to make a major review of its policies, and although reaching a consensus
has proved difficult, Government expects to take a position on the large farm
sector in the near future. Upon clarification of Government policy, the Bank
and the Government expect to undertake a joint review to see whether the
original project objectives can still be attained. Pending this review, no
further recruitment of mixed farms will take place.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
Project: US$9.9 million 1/ Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Although the planting program is now progressing fairly satis-
factorily, the total area planted is about 20% below target, largely because
of a slow project start up and unfavorable weather. The building and road
construction programs are also considerably behind schedule. However,
these shortfalls should be substantially reduced during the last two years of
the project. The gazetting of nature reserves and new forest reserves, is
progressing slowly, and ad hoc land use studies for specific areas are being
carried out. Although a study of pulpwood stumpage rates has been completed,
a similar study of rates for sawlogs is still pending. Progress in instituting
a program to improve efficiency of the sawmilling sector is also very slow.
1/   Net of cancellation; an amount of US$0.1 million was cancelled on
July 20, 1979 since items which were to have been financed under
the loan were not procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 32 -                         ANNEX II
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The changed focus of the project towards assisting large numbers
of subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led to
a number of difficulties, but the objective of improving the productivity and
incomes of smallholder farmers continues to be met. Late release of credit
funds in the past led to delayed application of farm inputs and expected yield
increases were therefore not achieved; measures have now been taken to ensure
availability of credit funds at the appropriate time. Steps are also being
taken to improve the low rates of credit repayment and loanee reparticipation.
The overall balance between numbers of loanees and infrastructural support--
staff, storage and transport--at cooperative union level has been improving,
and active efforts continue to be made to improve input supplies and marketing
systems.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date:  November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Agricultural development has advanced well; land clearance has been
completed in about 40% of the area, and 2,500 ha have been planted. Yields
from outgrowers' cane have been higher than anticipated, probably because of
excellent and well distributed rainfall and heavy fertilizer applications.
About 20% of the drainage component has been completed, and the benefits can
already be seen. Although several components are slightly behind schedule,
progress is generally satisfactory. Building works have been delayed, and the
first crushing trial of the factory is now expected to take place in December
1979/January 1980. Road construction has also been delayed, and an effective
sugar research program has yet to be established. Proposals for a training
program are now being produced, and the delay in completion of the factory
will allow more time for staff training. The standard of management of the
sugar company continues to be good, and coordination among the various agen-
cies involved in the project is improving.
Loan No. 1390T-KE/Credit No. 692-KE - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: US$5.0 million Loan and US$20.0 million Credit of April 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 14, 1977; ClosinL Date:
DecemLder 31, 1980
Disbursements have been delayed because of a backlog in updating
loan reimbursement requests by the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC).
The lack of consolidated information on AFC's lending trends toward different
categories of farmers and the current high arrears situation also pose pro-
blems. However, the disbursement situation is improving, and cumulative
commitments in the smallholder and medium-scale farmer categories now account
for almost all funds available for on-lending under the project. Consultants
are preparing proposals for the introduction of an improved management



- 33 -                         ANNEX II
accounting and information system. In addition, a review of AFC's salary
structure and organization is nearing completion. Both of these measures
should strengthen AFC's performance.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project: US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1977; Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30. 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, a detailed review of cost estimates indicates
that the Project will experience serious cost overruns; the revised estimate
is about 65% above the appraisal figure, and there seems to be little scope
for reduction. The Government has indicated that it will proceed with the
Project despite the significant burden on its finances. A revised financing
plan is under review by the co-financiers. No supplementary IDA financing is
proposed.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1985
Progress has been made in equipment procurement, and selection and
appointment of consultants for factory rehabilitation, road works, drainage
and irrigation is in progress. Coordination of project activities has improved
considerably, but a proposal, now under Government consideration, to withdraw
executive power from the Kenya Sugar Authority could have a negative impact on
project implementation if brought into effect.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Early stages of implementation are proceeding satisfactorily,
although slow progress in land adjudication will limit the number of farmers
eligible for loans during the first season. Engineering consultants are being
selected for the roads component, and terms of reference for baseline studies
are under preparation.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement; US$27.0 million
Credit of June 11, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical implementation is about two years behind the appraisal
schedule, basically due to delay by the Ministry of Works in completing the



- 34 -                         ANNEX II
tender documentation for certain project institutions. Action has been
proposed to alleviate the problem. The total cost of the project has increased
by about 6% in terms of US Dollars. Implementation of educational objectives
continues to be satisfactory. The views presented in the project-financed
report of the National Committee on Educational Objectives and Policies have
been incorporated in the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan 1979-83. Evaluation
of the efficiency of educational broadcasting has started, as has the revision
of primary school examinations to make them more work-oriented. However, the
Government continues to be reluctant to finance technical assistance speci-
alists from the loan proceeds, and this may lead to delays in implementation
of the project's educational objectives. The dialogue with the Government
regarding the hiring of required specialists is continuing.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education:  US$23.0 million Credit of June 7,
1978; Effective Date:  August 25, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is proceeding in line with ap-
praisal estimates. Implementation of the project's educational objectives is
also satisfactory. A five-year plan for revision of the Basic Education
Curricula has been prepared by the Kenya Institute of Education, and subject
review panels have started their work. The Kenya Institute of Administration
and the Faculty of Agriculture are also well on their way in the preparation
of courses and the planning of staffing and staff training. Steps are being
taken to recruit specialists needed for the Education Planning, Education
Facilities and Examinations Research and Development Units in the Ministry of
Education. Final information on the selection of the 30 Craft Training
Centers to be assisted under the project is expected shortly.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply; US$35.0 million
Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical execution of the major parts of the project is abGut nine
months behind schedule, while completion of some of the smaller components
may be as much as 15 months late. Progress has now improved but lost time
cannot be recovered. However, operations are expected to begin in the next
few months at one-third to one-half of production capacity, although there is
an estimated cost overrun of about 45% (expressed in US dollars), about 80% of
which is in local currency. Government, however, is committed to project
completion as soon as possible and as the project expenditures are now
spread over four years instead of three, the required annual budget appropria-
tions would be manageable. Institution building is proceeding slowly due to
difficulties in recruiting staff, and accelerated efforts are needed to
strengthen staffing and training for the Coast Province Water Branch.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply; US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date:  December 20, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule and is proceeding satisfactorily.
However, completion is now expected to be about nine months behind schedule



- 35 -
ANNEX II
due to difficulties with tender evaluations and delays by the Borrower
(Nairobi City Council) in making contract award decisions. Most supply con-
tracts financed by other donors and the first construction contract being
financed by the Bank have been awarded. The evaluation procedure for water
treatment equipment was abortive and this contract is being retendered. Good
progress is being made on detailed design and tendering for the remaining
contracts. Satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision are now
being finalized. Bid prices to date have been favorable and the present
estimate of total project cost is very close to the appraisal estimate.
Although water supply and sewerage operations are in sound financial condition,
the Borrower has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants regarding external
audits, the engagement of an accounting consultant and the constraint on use
of water and sewerage revenues for other purposes.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, L978; Closing Date: July 1, 1985
This loan is not yet effective. New tariffs have been introduced,
and management consultants are assisting with implementation of the first
phase of the program to strengthen the organization and management of the
Ministry of Water Development (MWD). Key project staff have been appointed
except for the cost and management accountant; recruitment efforts are underway
to fill this post as soon as possible. Preparation for construction of
schemes is about eight months behind schedule, but MWD is planning to revise
the implementation schedule to compensate for delays.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: US$12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; EfEective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31. 1979
The project was substantially completed in early 1977, about a year
and a half behind schedule. The delay was primarily caused by a slow start
in construction of the regional workshops and camps due to unforeseen diffi-
culties in the location of sites, acquisition of land, and procurement of
steel.  The Credit included US$2.2 million for headquarters and field staff-
ing and consultant services, but Government obtained most of these services
through bilateral arrangements. There was consequently a saving of US$1.8
million under the project, which the Government requested be used to purchase
additional workshop equipment and tools. Since this would assist in achiev-
ing the project's goals, IDA authorized using the remaining funds for this
purpose. With this revision, total project costs are expected to be as
appraised.
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: US$29.0 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Construction of the new Nairobi Airport was essentially completed
in December 1977, and it has been open to traffic since March 14, 1978. The
loan is 98% disbursed. The airport is performing up to expectations.



- 36 
ANNEX II
Establishment of a commercial accounting system is now underway. The principal
problem areas are in hiring and training sufficient staff for operation and
maintenance, both of which are constrained by a Kenya-wide shortage of skilled
personnel. A training program has been prepared by UNDP, but its execution
depends greatly on the effectiveness of recruitment efforts. Very little
progress has been made to date, and a further postponement of the Closing Date
to cover the period of implementation of the training program and to permit
completion of disbursements for this component may be required. The project
completion report is under preparation.
Loan No. 932-KE - Fifth Highway Project: US$29.0 million Loan of
September 6, 1973; Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Implementation started 18 months behind schedule due to changes in
design standards by the Ministry of Works and financial constraints. Con-
struction of 593 km of roads has been completed, and work on the Kisiani-
Bondo road is continuing. In view of heavy cost overruns, tenders for the
construction of two roads were delayed; agreement was ultimately reached to
delete the Thuchi-Nkubu (51 km) road from the project. The Closing Date,
which was postponed from December 31, 1977 to December 31, 1979, is likely to
be postponed further to allow time for completion of the Kisii-Mogonga road
where construction has recently begun.
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 31,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in January 1978 as originally planned. The final project cost
overrun is only US$9.5 million or 11%, the increase being primarily due to
escalation in construction costs. KPC's long-term financial prospects are
quite satisfactory although there could be cash flow problems in the initial
few years of operation because of the preponderance of short and medium-term
loans in the financing package. About 99% of the loan has been disbursed.
The Closing Date has been postponed to March 31, 1980 to allow time for
completion of procurement of equipment related to the operation of the pipe-
line.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on the Rural Access Roads Program was reviewed in depth
by all donors and discussed with Government during the annual review meeting
held in June 1979. The project is about 15 months behind schedule but is now
progressing satisfactorily. All eight Bank-financed construction units are
fully equipped and are now operational. By March 31, 1979, 304 km of access
roads had been constructed, of which 16 km were gravelled. Annual output



- 37 -
ANNEX II
averages 41 km per annum for all units, about 4 km below the appraisal
estimate. Output had declined due to shortage of laborers, particularly in
Kiambu District, and poor work organization in Nakuru Dictrict. To resolve
these problems, the Ministry of Works will request local governments to supply
more labor to construction units, and will assign a SIDA-financed engineer to
supervise works in the Nakuru area.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan of
April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation ofE the Government's Highway Sector Plan may be delayed
because a critical shortage of funds has caused a reduction in the highway
work program. While this has not yet affected the project appreciably, the
continuation of this trend in FY81 could touch projects included in the Sector
Loan. In general, detailed engineering has been completed for road construc-
tion and upgrading scheduled to start in FY80, and the designs for roads to
start in FY81 are completed or under preparation. The road maintenance
program for FY80 is in line with appraisal estimates except for a 30% reduction
in resealing of paved roads; however, the Ministry of Works is planning to
request funds this year from the loan to help clear the backlog of resealing.
POPULATION SECTOR
Credit No. 468-KE - Population: US$12.0 million Credit of April 1,
1974; Effective Date: July 31, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The four-year population project forms an integral part of Kenya's
Five-Year MCH/FP program, FY1975-79. All of the IDA-financed components
of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. Nearly 99% of the construction
has been completed (only twro out of 36 facilities are still in the final
stages of construction), and more than 75% of the equipment and furniture has
been procured. Some delays in furnishing, equipping and staffing of facili-
ties in rural areas are occurring, but arrangements to improve the situation,
including hiring of a hospital secretary or commissioning engineer, are being
explored by the Ministry of Health. All other elements of the project have
been completed. The program components financed by other donors and the
Government are moving ahead and, with a few exceptions, are expected to be
completed as planned.



-38-
ANNEX II
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: US$59.5 million Loan 1/
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Construction of the project was completed satisfactorily in
June 1978 on schedule and within estimated cost. On the basis of contracts
awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical equipment, present esti-
mates show that the project cost in Kenya shillings is likely to be about 1%
lower than the appraisal estimate. Due to the devaluation of Kenyan currency
in October 1975, however, the project cost saving expressed in US dollar
equivalent will be about 15% of the appraisal estimate. This will result in a
saving in the Bank loan of about US$4.0 million, in spite of the increase made
on June 15, 1977 in the percentage of civil works expenditures to be financed
under the Bank loan from 60% to 80%. At the request of the Borrower, US$3.5
million of the loan has been cancelled. A further cancellation of US$1.9
million is expected shortly along with a postponement of the Closing Date to
allow for disbursements.
Loan No. S-12-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project: US$9.0
million Loan of December 1, 1978; Effective Date: April 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Drilling is proceeding on schedule; specifications for the new drill
rig and accessories have been completed and tenders are being evaluated.
Miscellaneous supplies and equipment have been purchased under International
Shopping procedures.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 946-KE - Industrial Development Bank Project: US$5.0 million
Loan of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 26, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1979
The first Bank loan of US$5.0 million to IDB, which became effec-
tive on March 26, 1974 was fully committed in March 1978, two years behind
schedule. This delay was due to the cancellation prior to disbursement of a
number of projects previously approved. As at November 30, 1979 this loan
had been disbursed except for a balance of $897.40. A withdrawal application
for this amount will be submitted shortly.
1/   Net of cancellation; US$3.5 milfion of the original US$63.0 million Loan
was cancelled on October 19, 1978.



- 39 -
-                          ANNEX II
Loan No. 1148-KE - Seconad Industrial Development Bank Project:
US$10.0 million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9,
1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The second Bank loan of US$10.0 million became effective on October 9,
1975.  The loan was fully committed in August 1978 and US$9.7 million had been
disbursed as at  November 30, 1979.  The Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977. Twelve subprojects
have been approved. As at November 30, 1979, US$10.0 million had been
committed and US$3.3 milliori had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project:  US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Kenya Industrial E]states (KIE) continues to make progress in institu-
tional development, particu:Larly as regards financial discipline, project
appraisal procedures and operating performance.  KIE's management is determined
to implement agreed policies to improve profitability, but continued attention
is required in a number of iareas; a comprehensive plan of action for reducing
arrears is particularly important. Eight subloans totalling US$244,000 have
been committed, but no funds have been disbursed as yet under the line of
credit. A small amount has been disbursed, however, under the technical
assistance component.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
This loan became effective on August 16, 1979. Initial delays in
procurement of goods are likely to cause about a year's delay in project
completion.
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall project execution continues to be satisfactory but there are
mounting delays in implementation. Infrastructure has been completed for the
first 1,000 plots and most beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses.
Infrastructure for an addiltional 2,700 plots is about 30% complete and con-
struction of infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots is expected to begin



4u -
ANNEX II
soon. Cost recovery continues to be good. One primary school is now
operational, but designs for the remaining schools are behind schedule and
tendering is not expected to take place before December 1979. One health
center is under construction; however, the Bank does not plan to disburse
against its costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the
Bank. The design of the other health center should be submitted for approval
soon. Tenders have been invited for all other community facilities. Technical
assistance components are completed or scheduled for completion in conjunction
with the project. Project costs for the first phase remain close to appraisal
estimates but are expected to exceed original estimates for the remaining
components because of delays incurred.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of physical components of the project is
generally satisfactory. Consultants for detailed design and engineering of
Phase I sites in all three cities (Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) are making
good progress. Appointment of consultants for Phase II sites has now been
completed and design work is underway. The Housing Development Departments
are operational in all three cities with most key posts filled.  Recruitment
of other staff is underway. Progress in meeting disbursement conditions for
the Nairobi component is slow, and progress on studies included in the project
is also slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been delayed
pending Cabinet approval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. The Ministry of Works has
appointed various consultants for the design and construction of all physical
project components. The draft final report of the Tourism Pricing Study has
been reviewed with Government and consultants in the field, and the final
report is expected to be submitted soon. The Very Large Herbivores Study is in
progress. Satisfactory agreements.have been reached with the Amboseli ranchers
on guaranteed minimum returns, thus meeting the disbursement condition relating
to this component. The anti-poaching units are fully staffed and deployed,
and initial effectiveness of the units appears satisfactory. Draft amendments
to the Wildlife (Conservation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill the
requirements of the supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-
poaching operations have been approved by the Ministry of Wildlife and Tourism
and are now in the final stages of processing.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
East African Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 11
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project:  US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Dat,e of Effectiveness: December 16, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973:
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a joint
project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of shortage
of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have not
been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the
lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization
of the lighterage quay and Ea training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has generally iLmproved with increasing throughput; however, port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Leg:[slation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority
and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$34.4 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. Ilowever, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
For Loan No. 638-EA              (US$ million)
Kenya                            0.7
Tanzania                         0.6
Total                       1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                          1.7
Tanzania                      0.3
Total                     2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness: October 30, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the countries concerned is given below:
(US$ million)
Kenya               2.0
Tanzania            3.8
Uganda              1.9
Total               7.7



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project:  US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items, except the microwave radio system, have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of
headquarters. About US$30.7 million of the loan has now been disbursed. The
agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the coun-
tries concerned is as follows:
(US$ million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some imprtvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of March 31, 1978. Some US$9.1 million of
the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
November 30, 1979
Fiscal Year       Obligor               Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
and 1973       Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2     0.7     5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and 1979  Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper    17.2        6.3    23.5
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels              2.4      -      2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles            6.3     2.8     9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market      2.0      -      2.0
Total Gross Commitments                   33.1     9.8    42.9
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    9.2      1.8    11.0
Total Commitments now held by IFC         23.9     8.0    31.9
Total Undisbursed                          4.9      -      4.9



- 45 -
ANNEX III
KENYA - OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS'
(a)  Time taken to prepare:            About two years
(b)  Preparation by:                   The Kenya Power Company Limited (KPC)
(c)  Initial Discussion with Bank:   January 1978
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                November 1978
(e)  Negotiations:                     September 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  April 1980
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
The refinancing of Loan S-12-KE under the proposed loan.
III. Special Conditions
(a)  EAP&L would pay a development surcharge to KPC during the
construction period of the proposed project to provide a
portion of KPC's requirements of local currency funds for the
project (para. 72).
(b)  Minimum annual rates of return of 6% in 1980, 7% in 1981
and 1982 and 8% thereafter would be earned by the three power
companies on a combined basis, and appropriate tariff adjust-
ments would be made to achieve this rate (para. 70).
(c)  KPC shall not place any orders, award any contracts nor incur
any debts on account of goods and services required for the
installation of Unit 2 of the power generation plant until
evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been submitted indicating
that steam required for the generation of 24 MW of electrical
power (i.e. 80% of station capacity) is available (para 64).
(d) Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan include:
(i)  fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effective-
ness of the CDC Loan Agreement except the effectiveness of
the Loan Agreement; and
(ii) the conclusion of a modified Management Agreement satis-
factory to the Bank (para. 78).






IBRD 14278R
JULY1979
SUDAN                                                               ~~~~~~~KENYA
S U D A N                                                                                      KEY
,   ---                                    -. _OLKARIA GEOTHERMAL
POWER PROJECT-.
g40~~~~ ~ ~~                                                                        /           -9°
<,     k  e  v                               '   ,_,~~~~~~----          -  7//
_,    y                                 /
LOSW% \   /      \       toEI Mol Carr,                                                               (7
a   \  t          ;      \-                       , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Marsabils 
A                                 E                                              lobcK  E N  Y  in
Aorors- J ~~~R  I F  T -  
I ororg "                     IF
A, E l-oe i
J (BZ anr -u T         V A L LE Y                              lu                                                      . j
Ka6arywe
McvenoQ. i ~   I  /                    Nyahururu  A.*         A                                                                  0
-Ot~Makenoos  \    /                                     lDclpyuk   oMeru
Mo,oo"            M OU N T  K ENA N Y
O    V>        1 Ker ho'       Nckutra¾ lA       N)arissa
pHomi Bay                       - .  G                                                     AMesc
~~~~ ~~~~~~' ~~~~Naivols*c> ,,-a~r 
0 ,N             t    E         i      R   NKiar bLi    -<
Ngcrng -                        K t uK
ltNAIfRODI       M  aXIcna
T  A  N  Z  A    N   I  A                                                                                                    Mc ---->Dndo Is.L
Olkoria Geothermal Field                                                               % '
A       Diesel Power Stations                      '       .   Tsa,
*       Stecam  Power Stations                                        - -     e           k O
A       -                         ~~~~~~~~~~~A Maindti
*       Hydro Power Stations                            )              fo a
132 hV, Transmission line (Pr ojecied)          II,, hBt  ff 0- p,/y for  *.        /
132 kV, Transmission line(EKisting)             h                       toaiceorŽ>* 4'8pevu                                  0
66 kV, TronsMission and distribution tines     rod       hof  s                    Map                          0 W  I      4e
World Boortk 04 d0 of iRfBhte 00 y 000l       g
- - - - - - - 33 tsV, Distribution lines                 ub,f I-BO,odo,riOfBt0fOiOfif  dal 
20   0 20   40   60 50   lOOMI    C'    40  e60    lo0fm.                                             40a
I  '  36°     I,                                                                                                   I



