6221 ;z (acr-- <   -}L-
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12630-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SEXUALLY TRANSID  INFECTIONS PROJECT
MARCH 9, 1994
Eastern Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by redpieuts only in the petformance of
their offivca duties. Its contents may not odherise be discosed without Wodd Bank authorizaton.



REPUBLIC OF UGAN1DA
Sexually Tran,  utted Infecfions Project
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                 -Ugar.da Shilling (USh)
US$ 1.00                      =1282.9Ush
lUsh                          =US$0.077
US$ 1.00                      =SDR 1.37817
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Govenmnent Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS PROJECT
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACP                       AIDS Control Program
AIDS                      Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CBO                       Community Based Organizations
CHAP                      Community Health and AIDS Project
CI                        Care Indicators
DANIDA                    Danish Internatioual Development Agency
DES                       District Executive Secretary
DHT                       District Health Team
FIP                       First Health Project
GOU                       Government of Uganda
GPA                       Global Program on AIDS
HiV                       Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus
ICB                       International Competitive Bidding
IDA                       International Development Association
IEC                       Information, Education and Communications
KfW                       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KABP                      Knowledge, Attituides, Beliefs and Practices
MCH                       Maternal and Child Health
MOFP                      Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOH                       Ministry of Health
MOI                       Ministry of Information
MOLG                      Ministry of Local Government
MTP                       Medium Term Plan
NGO                       Non Governmental Organization
NMS                       National Medical Stores
NTLP                      National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Program
NOP                       National Operational Plan
ODA                       Overseas Development Administration (UK)
OPD                       Outpatient Departnent
PI                        Prevention Indicators
PHC                       Primary Health Care
PIU                       Project Implementation Unit
PS                        Permanent Secretary
SIDA                      Swedish International Development Agency
STD                       Sexually Transmitted Diseases
STI                       Sexually Transmitted Infections
This document has a restiicted distinbution and may be ustd by recipients only in the pefomance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



TFR                     Total Fertility Rate
UAC                     Uganda AIDS Commission
UDHS                    Uganda Demographic and Health Survey
UNDP                    United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                  United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                   United States Agency for International Developmept
WHO                     World Health Organization
This report is based on the findings of an apprisal mission that visited Uganda in
November 1993 comprising Messr&Mesdames V Jagdish (Senior Public Health
Specialist), B. Heibling (Operations Officer), Y Sefum (StqffAssist), Consultants D.
Rugg (AIDS Evaluation Specialist, CDC), E. Blas and R Widy-Wirsli (GPA/WHO), K
Edstrom (SIDA) andR Schumacher (KM. The peer reviewers were M Porter, M
Azefor and W Roseberry. Mr. JackMaas andMr. F. Cola'o are the Division Chief and
Department Director, respecfivelyfor the operation.



REBPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SEXUALLY TRANSM1rIED INFECTIONS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
BASIC DATA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                              jj
ESTIMATED COSTS, FINANCING PLAN AND IBRD DISBURSEMENT                   v
I. SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS IN UGANDA    1
A. THE HEALTH SECTOR ......................................1I
B. THE EPIDEMIC OF STD/AIDS IN UGANDA ................................5.......
C. THE NATIONAL RESPONSE TO STIs ......................8................8
D. IDA INVOLVEMENT IN THE HEALTH SECTOR .................................. 10
E. ROLE OF OTHER MAJOR DONORS .................     ..................... 11
F. LESSONS FROM OTHER BAINK STI PROJECTS ................................... 12
IL THE PROJECT                                                           14
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...................................... 14
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS ......................................       15
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ......................................      15
D. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............................... 25
E. MONITORING AND EVALUATION ......................................  27
III. COSTS, FIl ANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS                                                       32
A. COSTS ................                                          32
B. FINANCING ...................                                   36
C. PROCUREMENT ...................                                 36
C. DISBURSEMENT ...................                                39
D. ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT ................... 40
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                   41



V. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS
REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                                                      43
TABLES
T ble 1: Summaty of Project Costs By Component ......................................... 33
Table 2: Summary of Project costs by Expenditure Accounts ................ .......... 33
Table 3: Assumed Rates of Inflation ............................................             33
Table 4: Financing Plan ............................................                         36
Table 5: Procurement Anrangements ..................                .......................... 37
Table 6: Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit ................................. 39
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Project Costs Financing ............................................                45
Annex 2: The Disease of AIDS ............................................ 51
Annex 3: Behavioral Factors of the  HIV/AIDS Epidemic in Uganda ................ 55
Annex 4: HIV/AIDS Data Projections and Impact ........................................... 61
Annex 5: Nature, Incidence and Treatment of Sexually Transmitted
Diseases in Uganda ............................................                  66
Annex 6: STD in Uganda ............................................                          72
Annex 7: Drugs for the Treatnent of Secually Transmitted Diseases ........... .... 73
Annex 8: Condom Esfimates ............................................ 77
Annex 9: Supervision Strategy ............................................                   78
Annex 10: District Monitoring and Evaluation Matrix ......................................  80
Annex 11: Procurement Plan                    ............................................ 86
Annex 12: Project Organization and Management ........................................... 87
Annex 13: Disbursement Estimates by Quarter                  ............................. 88
Annex 14: Documents available in Project File   .                      .89
MAP 13RD No. 25052



i
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SEXUALLY TRANSMUITED INFECTIONS PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Country Data
Per Capita GDP                                              $170
Total Population                                             17.5m
Population Growth Rate                                      2.83
Population, Health and Nutrition Indicators
Infant Mortality Rate (1992)                                118
Maternal Mortality Rate                                     550
Crude Death Rate                                            22
Crude Birth Rate                                            50
Total Fertility Rate                                        7.1
Life Expectancy at Birth                                    47
Malnutrition of under 5 years                               45%
Population per physician                                    24,700
Population per Nurse                                        8,900
Births attended by health staff                             39%/o
Public Expenditures on Health
MOH share of total Government Budget                        7.8%
MOH share of GDP                                             1.5%



ii
UGANDA
SEXUALLY T1RANSMI D INIECIIONS PROJECT
Credit and lProect Summary
Bonvwer:       Republic of Uganda
Implemendng
Agencies.      Mnistry of Health (MOH); Non Government Organtions (NGOs);
and Community Based Organizations (CBOs)
Bengeries:   Men and women at nsk in their reproductive age groups, and their
dependents (approximately 10 million people).
CretAmownt:  SDR 36.3 (US$50 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard, with 40 year maturity
Project Objectives:
The proposed project has three main objecfives: (1) to prevent sexal
transmission of HIV by: Promotion of safer sexual behavior, provision
of condoms; promotion of STD care seeking behavior; and provision of
effective STD care; (2) to mitigate the personal impact of AIDS by:
provision of support for community and home based care, and social
support for people with AIDS, tramng of staff and provision of drugs
for opportunistic infections and protective supplies for district health
facilities (govemment and non-government); and provision of effective
TB case management; and (3) to support institutional development to
manage HIV prevention and AIDS care by: strengthening the districts'
capacity to plan, coordinate, implement, monitor and evaluate
integrated AIDS related activities and by strengthening the national
capacity to provide adequate technical support on health issues related
to AIDS.
Project Description:
The proposed project has three main components: (1) prevention of
sexual transmission of HIV and other STDs(US$33.1 million). The
project will finance awareness, mass and community mobilization
campaigns using Government, NGOs and CBOs. It will finance
targeted behavioral interventions and services aimed at high-risk groups
through NGO and CBO programs. In particular, the project will
finance the provision of condoms, care and treatment of STDs,
including drugs and training of staff, (2) mitigation of the personal
impact of AIDS (US$22.4 million). The project will support



...
community and home based health care and provide social support for
people with AIDS. This will be accomplished through NGOs and
CBOs at the district and community levels. The project will support
the orientation of staff in dealing with opportunistic infections and will
provide drugs for these infections. Also included are the provision of
clinical and protective supplies. 1uberculosis is the most serious EIV
related infection frm a public health standpoint and the project will
support the diagnosis and case management of tuberculosis. (3)
institutional development (US$10.7 million). The project will support
the develepment of district and central capacity to plan and manage
Sll/AIDS programs. It will also support surveillance, operational
research and monitoring and evaluation activities. Funds will also be
provided for innovative NGO or CBO activities.
Jusilfcaden and Risks:
Prevention of STDs and HIV will result in large savings of siclness
care expenditures. The drain on society by the loss of people from
AIDS is staggering in human, social and economic terms. In Uganda
the AIDS epidemic is severe and already large numbers of economicaly
productive persons have died. Investments in reducing STDs and lV
will therefore produce savings and increased economic activity through
carefblly targeted interventions. The interventions proposed are highly
cost  ective. Palliative home care costs between $30 and $75 per
Dis: lity-Adjusted Life Year (DALY) gained. Curing each case of
gonorrhea in a core group saves 120 DALYs, at a cost well below the
$1 per DALY gained if the benefits of fewer secondary cases and
reduced risk of HIV transmission are included. Thus the project will be
an effective means 'or protecting large numbers of Uganda's labor force
against the disease and their dependents against AIDS-related poverty.
Iile project will directy benefit 66,500 tuberculosis patients and their
fhmilies, fellow-workers and others who would be at riqk of infection
through contact with them. It will provide condoms to an estimated 4
million sexually active adults, thus protecting them and their sexual
partners from the risk of contracting HIV and STDs. The project will
finiush sufficient low-cost diagnostics to test every pregnant woman
who seeks care from syphilis during the life of the project, benefitng
them, their patients and their unborn children. More than 1.5 million
people with HIV will receive care for various infections. Protective
supplies will safeguard an esfimated 7000 health workers from the risk
of HIV and their tens of thousands of patients from nosocomial and
iatrogenic infections.
The principal risk for the project is that the incidence rate of HIV,
STDs or TB, all high already, may increase so quicldy so as to
overwhelm even the integrated and intensified effort of Uganda's STI



iv
program. The only way of averting this risk is to mount the most
inclusive, cost-effective program possible in the shortest time. The
project has been designed for rapid implementation which, together
with the Government's keen interest to raise public awareness about
STIs and the integrated by donors effort already underway substantially
limit this risk. Finally, behavioral changes are difficult to promote, but
experience in other countiies suggests that the literal life-and death
choice p osed by the presence of STIs and availability of safer
alternatives have proven compelling enough to override the inherent
resistance to change.
Environmental Risks:
No environmental risks are foreseen.



v
SEXUALLY TRANSMITED INFECTIONS PROJECT
EstLunated Cosa,. Financina Plan and IIA Disbursemen"
Estimated Costs
Project Compoents              Local        Foreign        Total
- US$ million
Prevention of Sexual Transmission of HIV  8.3         26,7          35.0
Mltigaion ofthe Personal Impact of AIDS   1.5         21.0          22.5
Institutional Development                 6.8          3.9          10.7
Total Base Cost                          16.6         51.6          68.2
Contingencies                             1.3          3.9           5.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       17.9         55.5          73.4
Financing Plan
Local            Foreign            Total
USS million
Government               7.4               0.0               7.4
KfW                      0.0               6.8               6.8
ODA                      0.0               4.2               4.2
SIDA                     1.0               4.0               5.0
IDA                     9.5               40.5              50.0
TOTAL                   17.9              55.5              73.4
Economic Rate
of Retr:       Not applicable.



I. SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS IN UGANDA
A. THE HEALTH SECTOR
Health Conditions
1.01 The health status of Uganda's 16.5 million people is poor. Life expectancy at birth
is only 47 years (versus 59 years in low-income countries generally); the crude death rate
is 19 per 1000 population (versus 10 per 1000 in low-income countries); the under-5
mortality rate is 185 per 10O0 live births (versus 100 per thousand in low-income
countries); and about 23% of children in a survey were found to display low weight-for-
age, reflecting nutritional deficiencies. The leading causes of death are AIDS,
tuberculosis, and malaria, for adults; and malaria, pneumonia, and diarrhea for children.
The leading causes of illness and death are atl preventable, although with varying degrees
of difficulty.
1.02 Uganda's health problems are compounded by a high total fertility rate (TFR) of
7.1, reflecting a contraceptive prevalence rate of only 5%, and yielding a high population
growth rate of 2.8%. Uganda's maternal mortality rate of about 550 per 100,000 live
births is more than twelve times higher than in developed countries, and a survey found
that 70/ of young Ugandan women reported having had an abortion. A comparative study
based on Demographic and Health Surveys from eleven counties found that, within this
group, Ugandan women had the least access to family planning services.
The Health Care System and its Utiliation
1.03  The Government sector accounts for 62% of hospital beds and 58% of registered
outpatient cinics. Government health facilities suffer from a shortage of funds,
particularly for essential supplies and pharmaceuticals, staff salaries and incentives, and
routine maintenance of equipment and facilities. Although the nongovernmental (NGO)
sector accounts for only 38% of hospital beds, it provides 54% of bed-das, reflecting
greater capacity utilization and staff productivity. NGO facilities pay their staff
significanly more than the government. Health facilities are well-distributed throughout
the country, except for the North which is underserved and existing facilities are in a state
of disrepair.
1.04 A population-based health budget survey found that, among households surveyed
who had experienced a recent illness, 21% visited a Government facility, and 31% visited
an NGO or other private facility, while 48% resorted to informal sector providers. The
limited utilization of the formal health care system is also illustrated by the Uganda
Demographic and Health Survey (UDHS) 1988/89, which found that only 3% of births are
attended by doctors, only 36% by nurse/midwives, and that almost 60% of births take
place outside the formal health delivery system. Among toddlers, only 24% had received a



2
full set of recommended immunizations, and only about 40% were fully immunized against
DPT and measles. Thus, at present neither the Government nor the NGOs provide
adequate primazy health care to a majority of the population.
Organization of Government Health Services
1.05 The Government health care system is orgarized into three principal tiers: Mulago
Hospital, the national referral hospital, in Kampala; the district hospital in each district,
headed by a Medical Superintendent, reporting directly to the Ministry of Health; and
lower-level facilities in each district, reporting to the District Medical Officer of the
Ministry of Health. The upper tiers are administered by the Ministry of Health, while
district administrations, in principle, are supposed to be responsible for the lower-level
facilities. In fact, most of the health workers in the lower-level facilities are on the MOH
payroli and are seconded to local governments.
1.06 The health sector will be affected in a major way by the Decentralization program,
the principles of which were announced by the President of Uganda in October 1992. As
part of this progmm, control over field personnel will be shifted from Central Government
ministries to the District Executive Secretary (DES). Beginning with the 1993/94 financial
year, district votes have been created in the national government budget, initially for
thirteen districts, chosen by government so that recurrent expenditure allocations can be
sent directly from the Treasury to the district. 13 more districts will be added by July 1,
1994 and the remaining 14 by July 1, 1995. Ministry headquarters will be streamlined to a
core of policy makers, planners, and inspectors. A Decentralization Bill which includes
the necessary changes to relevant laws passed Parliament and was written into law in
1993.
1.07 For the health sector, decentralization has the following major implications: (a) the
district hospitals, for administrative and budgetary purposes, will contimne to report to the
MOH (n other words, the current "dualistic" administration will continue at the district
level); (b) the central mission of the MOH will evolve, relatively away from service
provision, toward formulating a policy framework within which health services can be
efficiently and equitably provided by district health administrations and nongovernmental
providers (while MOH would retain whatever specialized "vertical" responsibilities canot
be decentralized efficiently). A Task Force on Health Services Decentralization, drawn
from MOH, the Ministry of Local Goverunent, and the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning, has submitted a Report (June 1993) making specific recommendations, including
restructuring of vertical programs , and integration at the district level, of many
components of current, donor-financed vertical programs.



3
Health Expenditures and Financing
1.08 Total health spending (public plus private) in Uganda stands at only $6 per capita,
as compared with $11-19 per capita in most Sub-Saharan African countries, and an
estimated cost of $12 pe. capita to provide a package of "essential", highly cost-effective
health services in low-income countries.' Analysis done for the Bank's Social Sector
Strategy report found that Government health expenditure was skewed toward
subsidization of curative services, with public health and preventive services seriously
underfiunded. 2
1.09 NGO faicilities recover most of their costs through user charges. The Ministry of
Health put forward a proposal for specified user charges for Government clinical services
in 1990, but this has not yet been approved by Parliament. Since then, at the local level
many health units, with the approval of their management committees, have begun to
charge fees. A study in Kabarole district found that revenues from user charges in
Govennnent health units were used for supplies, repairs, transportation, and staff
allowances, contributing to increased availability of health workers and reduced waiting
time. Interviewees generally expressed willingness to pay higher fees to obtain further
improvements in service.3 In the 1992 Budget Speech, it was announced that Government
hospitals would be allowed to operate private wings which would charge full cost.
However, thus far, recognized user charges have played only a minor role in the financing
of Government health services.
Policy Framework for the Health Sector
1.10 The issues identified above are well-recognized in the White Paper on Health
Policy, which has been prepared by the Ministy of Health, and approved by the Cabinet in
November 1993. The White Paper recognizes that it will be necessary both to mobilize
more resources for the health sector, and allocate resources more efficiently. The White
Paper states that the health sector strategy should reflect the overall public expenditure
strategy set out in The Way Forward II, of taking into account the comparative
advantages of the public and private sectors, avoiding spreading Government resources
thinly and ineffectively, and ening that public expenditures within prority sectors are
cost-effective. As applied to the health sector, these prnciples mean that the Government
should concentrate on public health interventions, and on ensuring that the most cost-
effective clinical services are available to the majority of the population. Public health
interventions are those whose utilization or benefits are not limited to one individual.
Parliament has also approved a Bi}l for the decertralization of health services. The Bill
gives responsibility to local and urban councils for the provision of curative and
preventive services below the level of district hospital.
I  World Devdopment kort 1993: bnvesin inHalth p. 117
2  Report no. 10765-UO, UEda Socia Sector Se.
3  J. Kamugia   th Cost Sharing in Kabaole Distict" (June 1993).



4
1.11 Under the theme of increased resource mobilization, the White Paper proposes that
the recent trend of devoting an increasing share of the Central Government budget to the
health sector should continue. In the decentralized system, districts may decide to
supplement Central Government allocations, by raising revenues locally to improve service
quality. The Government will develop guidelines for the protection of the poor as well as
for appropriate practices to ensure accountability.
1.12  Under the theme of more efficient resource utilization, the following policies are
put forward:
1.    Resources will be shifted from hospital-based curative services, toward more cost-
effective preventive and promotive services.
2.    Under the Decentralization policy, detailed planning of health services will take
place at the district and lower levels, involving communities. District health
administrations will be provided with training in planning, budgeting, and financial
management. The role of the MOH will change, and under the decenralized
system its major responsibilities will include health policy formulation, standard-
setting, training and capacity building, supervision, and medical auditing.
3.    The functional capacity and efficiency of essential existing Government facilities
will be restored through repairs to buildings and providing necessary equipment,
drugs, and supplies, but expansion by building new hospitals and major facilities
will be discouraged. The staffing of the Government health services will be
rationalized. Mulago Hospital will become autonomous, with the establishment of
a Board responsible for the management of the hospital and its resources. As the
leading referrl and teaching hospital of the country, Mulago will reduce its
provision of primary and secondary services.
4.    Closer collaboration with NGOs and the private sector will be developed, in order
to reduce duplication, improve services, and make health infiastructure
development more affordable. Appropriate financing arrangements will be pilot-
tested.
5.    In order to strengthen the management capacity of the health sector, the roles and
responsibilities of instiuons in the health system will be clearly defined, the
availability and utilization of information will be improved, and mechanisms will be
established to monitor and evaluate inputs, outputs, and outcomes (impact).
1.13 The White Paper provides an excellent basis for the future development of the
health sector in Uganda. However, substantial institutional strengthening and well-
directed financial assistance from donors will be needed for the effective implementation
of these policies.



5
B. THE EPIDEMIC OF STD/AIDS IN UGANDA
1.14  Any discussion of the health sector in Uganda in the 1990s is dominated by STDs
and AIDS in particular (Annex 2). Although other health issues remain critical, they are
dwarfed by the magnitude and immediacy of an estimated 1.5 million Ugandans being
infected with HIV. In a country with a population of 16.5 million, a little more than half
of which is over 15 years of age, this translaies to one in every six to seven of these adults
being infected with HIV. In Kampala more than 30 percent of all pregnant women
attending ante-natal services are infected, and in many parts of the country AIDS is the
most common cause of hospital admission and death of adults.
1.15 The consequences of the AIDS epidemic are far reaching. First, the health and
longevity of the population is threatened. Gains in quality of life indices such as life
expectancy and infant mortality have been lost. Investments in educating Ugandans are
being lost. And the painstaking accumulation of critical human capital is being lost.
Second are the severe and long term economic implications for the country. AIDS affects
mostly the productive segment of society-the 15-50 year old-and even the most highly
educated are not being spared. Inaustrial and private sector growth, along with
development of institutional capacity, all need skilled workers, entrepreneurs, and leaders.
Loss of these individuals to AIDS has significant consequences for the rebuilding of the
Ugandan economy. Third are the social consequences. It is difficult to measure the large
scale disruption to families and communities, the personal losses and the stigmatization
suffered by family members. Families and communities are faced with large numbers of
children and elderly who have lost the people who support and care for them.
1.16 In brief, Uganda is experiencing an epidemic that rivals the worst ever experienced
by any nation. Without a cure or vaccine for AIDS, neither of which is anticipated in the
foreseeable future, even the most optimistic scenario shows a devastating and far-reaching
impact on the social and economic fabric of the country. The health system is
overwhelmed, the educated and skilled are dying, and economic prospects are significantly
diminished.
1.17  Cases of AIDS in Uganda began to occur in the begining of the 1980's. It was
first known as "Slim" disease. The adults who were affected gradually wasted away and
did not respond normally to treatment for common illness. Soon after laboratory tests for
HIV became available in 1985, the first case of AIDS in Uganda was confirmed in Rakai
district in 1986. In the beginning, most cases were reported from the districts bordering
Lake Victoria. But soon districts from all over the country had reported AIDS cases.
1.18 Uganda was among the firt countries in Afiica to realize the possible impact of
the epidemic. Up to June 1993 41,000 cases of AIDS have been reported to the Ministy
of Health. It should however be realized that due to under diagnosis, under reporting,
etc., this only represents a fraction of the cases that have acually occurred since the start
of the epidemic. The sentinel Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) surveillance carried
out by the Aids Control Program (ACP) Ministry of Health indicates HIV prevalence



6
levels in 1993 among pregnant women attending ante natal clinics varies from 5 to 30%
depending on geographical area. Based on the above and the results of the national sero
survey in 1987/88, it is estimated that currently 1.5 mfillion people are infected in the
country out of a total population of 16.5 million (Annex 3).
1.19 It is estimated that the actual number of cumulative AIDS cases is over 300,000.
The mean age of infected females is significantly lower than that of males suggesting that
females get infected at an earlier age than males. In addition, in the age group 15 to 19
year, the number of female AIDS cases is about six times that of males. Using the
following assumptions: (i) transmission of WIV began in 1980, (ii) the number of infected
adults in 1988 was 800,000 (iii) HIV incidence begins to decrease gradually over the next
decade, and (iv) the mean survival time after progression to AIDS is approximately six
months, the WHO HIV/AIDS EPI-model projects that the number of HIV infected people
could increase to more than 1.9 million in 1998. It also projects that between 1993 and
1998 565,000 adult and 250,000 children will die from AIDS. By 1998 alh.-st 900,000
children below 15 will have lost their mothers due to AIDS.
1.20 As in other neighboring countries, the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases
(STD) is high. STDs are a serious problem in Uganda and the problem appears to be
growing. STDs, particularly genital ulcers, are important risk factors for the transmission
of HIV. The Ministry of Health's planning unit report of 1992 stated that 4.5% of all Out-
Patient Department (OPD) diagnoses were due to STDs. Since then various reports have
quoted an upward trend in STDs. A review of out-patient records from seven health
facilities in 1990 revealed that out of a total of 108,487 outpatient attendance, 20,658
(19%/6) were STD diagnoses. Virika hospital in Fort Portal estimates that 6.9% of males
and 5.9% of females OPD attendance in 1988 were due to STDs. The Rakai research
study found the rate of genital ulcer disease to range between 6.o7% and 19.5% in males
and 1 1.6% to 21.1% in females. A British Medical Research Council Kyamulibwa study
found a syphilis sero-prevalence rate of 16% in 1990. A study by the ACP found a
syphilis sero-prevalence rate of 25% in a Kampala hospital in 1992 and 20.3% in Fort
Portal (Annex 6).
1.21 The National Knowledge, Attitudes, Beliefs and Practices (KABP) survey
conducted in 1989 found that having non-regular partners is common, especially among
the younger age groups (15-24 years). Approximately 50% of the males and 20 to 25%
of the females interviewed reported having had casual partners within the last 12 month
before the survey. A quarter of both males and females reported having had sexual
intercourse before the age of 14. The knowledge of condoms in the same age groups
ranged from 40 to 50%, but the use in sexual relations of risk was considerably lower (5
to 10%). Smaller more recent surveys suggest that although the knowledge may have
increased, large scale behavior change and use of condoms have not occurred (Annex 5).
1.22 AIDS is the final stage of HIV infection. During a long incubation period, H1V
infection can go unnoticed until the immune system deteriorates to the point where the
patient becomes vulnerable to opportunistic infections. Most of these are potentially



7
harmful diseases that would normally be handled by the body" defense mechanisms. The
most common symptoms of these infections in Uganda are severe weight loss, chronic
diarrhea, prolonged fever and cough, and increasingly tuberculosis. It is these symptoms
that usually lead victims to seek diagnosis and medical care. Internationally, AIDS patients
survive for an average of three years after diagnosis. In Uganda the time of survival is
much shorter (Annex 3).
1.23 Tuberculosis is one of the most serious AIDS opportunistic illnesses. As in other
countries with AIDS epidemics, TB has reemerged as a serious public health problem in
Uganda. After years of decline the number of cases of TB has increased markedly to
14,771 in 1991. Between April 1990 and March 1991 the number of new TB cases was
6,043.
1.24 The probability for HIV transmission varies with the mode of transmission. For
sexual transmission, the risk increases with the frequency of sexual contacts with different
sexual partners and with the presence of genital ulcers, which enhance the "efficiency" of
transmission. Genital ulcers due to syphilis or chrancoid raise the probability of HIV
transmission by five to ten fold. Children born to an HIV-infected mother have a 30% risk
of being HIV infected. Transmission through receiving infected blood or blood products
has a probability of 90% or more. However, the low frequency in the population of blood
transfusions, the improved donor selection and screening of blood makes this route of
transmission less important in the overall picture. Probability oftransmission due to use of
contaminated instruments, syringes and needles is low due to the small quantities of blood
involved and the vulnerability of the virus once outside the body.
1.25 The predominant mode of transmission in Uganda as elsewhere in Afiica is
heterosexual with roughly equal numbers of women and men affected. Of the new
infections occurring in Uganda it is estimated that 84% are due to sexual transmission,
14% due to transmission from mother to infant, and less than 2% due to other routes of
transmission. Because of the large numbers of women carying the virus, there are
increasing number of infants and children infected. This together with the loss of mothers
due to AIDS will increase infant and child mortality significantly.
1.26 The only way to achieve control of AIDS in the foreseeable future is through
prevention. There are two main strategies for prevention in Uganda:
* promotion of safer sexual behaviors, which may include: abstinence and
faithfulness to one's partner - if there is any variation at all from these
requirements, a condom is essential and the only way to save lives.
* prevention and treatment of other STDs.



8
C. THE NATIONAL RESPONSE TO STIs
1.27 To address the public health and clinical aspects of the AIDS epidemic, the
Mlnistry of Health in 1987 established the AIDS Control Program (ACP). The ACP was
given the responsibility to undertake surveillance, develop preventive and care strategies,
and to support research activities. ACP has since its start received strong support from the
Global Program on AIDS (GPA) of WHO. A Short Term Plan (STP) 1986/87 and a
Medium Term Plan (MTP) 1988/92 were developed and financed. A variety of activities
were initiated and despite initial set backs the ACP has emerged into a viable unit. In
1993, recognizing the close linkages between STD and AIDS and the need to strengthen
STD prevention and treatment, the MOH decided to merge the STD program into the
ACP. The result is likely to be a more coherent effort to address STIs.
1.28 The ACP seeks to prevent HIV infection and to provide appropriate care for
people with AIDS. Key objectives are to:
* Prevent sexual transmission of HIV through EEC and community mobilization;
provision of condoms; and early diagnosis and treatment of STD.
* Ensure the safety of blood supply through support to tie national blood bank and
to improve safety precautions in health care settings.
* Improve care for people with AIDS focusing on homebased care with appropriate
support from health care facilities.
* Improve epidemiological surveillance to monitor HIV transmission, STD and
related drug resistance, and tuberculosis.
*  Integrate STD control into existing health services (including MCH/FP services)
and train staff to identify and treat STD.
*  Develop a list of essential drugs and supplies for treating STD.
1.29  The ACP in the beginning functioned as a vertical program within the Ministry of
Health, but it has to an increasing degree taken a coordinating and guiding function
operating through other already existing units, channels and programs. However this
function and its capacity to monitor activities in the health sector needs further
strengthening.
1.30 Realizing that effective prevention and reduction of the impact of the AIDS
epidemic would require concerted efforts in multiple sectors with a strong element of
national coordination, the Government appointed a National Task Force in 1990. The
work of this task force resulted in the establishment of the Uganda AIDS Commission
(UAC) with a Secretariat in 1991. Initial funding for the secretariat was provided by a
number of donor agencies including UNICEF, UNDP, USAID, WHO and IDA.



9
Unfortunately, the UAC Secretariat did not develop a satisfactory action plan. Rather
than playing a coordinating and facilitating role, the Secretariat proposed to implement
numerous activities which ought to have been undertaken by line ministries. This resulted
ir an unnecessary duplication of resources and thus failed to gain support from the
government or the donor community.
1.31 In 1993 a new Director General was appointed and a number of preliminary steps
have been taken to redefine the role and function of the UAC Secretariat. The Secretariat
had difficulties in taking up its coordinating function and establishing a comprehensive
inventory of activities, organizations and donor support in AIDS. Neither has appropriate
staffing for the Secretariat been achieved as yet. IDA has carefully exanined the role of
the UAC and its Secretariat and has concluded that there is a legitimate and important role
for the UAC although IDA cannot support it in its present form.
1.32 In June 1993, a National AIDS Consensus Conference and a National AIDS
Planning Workshop were held with the active participation of 175 persons representing
policy and technical levels of more than 50 different ministries and organizations. The
outcome of this process is a National Operational Plan (NOP), providing the backbone for
the national efforts to prevent HIV infection and to mitigate the adverse health and socio-
economic impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The plan calls for increased nationwide
concerted efforts. The main features of the plan are:
*  Decentralization AIDS activities will be planned, managed and monitored at the
district (RC5) level. but activities will be decenralized further with responsibility
for implementation at the sub-county (RC3) and village/community (RC2/1) levels.
*  Communmy mobilization, communities will be assisted to mobilize own resources
to assess and to deal with factors facilitating HIV transmission within the
community and to deal with the health and socio-economic impact.
* Non goverunentl organizations, wil be encouraged to work with communities
and to complement government activities.
The National Operational Plan was endorsed by the UAC in October 1993 and forms the
broad policy basis for developing AIDS activities in the country.
1.33  Program funding gaps especially inthe areas of provision of condoms and drugs
for treatmnent of STDs combined with a centralized approach by the Ministry of Health
have resulted in crucial parts of the programs not being implemented at a rate necessary to
influence the evolution of the epidemic.



to
D. IDA INVOLVEMENT IN THE HEALTH SECTOR
1.34  IDA is financing an ongoing First Health Project (FHP) which became effective in
1988. The Mid-Term Review of the Project conducted in August 1992 spelled out the
following problems.
• Inadequate and untimely release of counterpart funds;
*  Delays in procurement of goods and services and weak contract administration;
• Inadequate use of Special Account Funds and delays in disbursement processing;
* Poor financial management and budgetary controls and unsatisfactory compliance with
audit covenant;
* Inadequate utilization of technical assistance support;
* Long delays between credit signing and credit effectiveness;
* Inadequate salary and incentive payments to government employees supporting project
implementation; and
* Ineffective project management and coordination.
The MOH undertook a number of correctve steps to improve project performance.
These steps have begun to bear fruit. Inspite of these problems, the rates of Credit
disbursement are among the highest in Uganda for Government/IDA projects. FBP design
was ambitious in scope, based on good prior sector analysis, but did not fully anticipate
the constraining effects of known risks, particularly effects outside the health sector. The
initial difficulties have been overcome and though some problems remain the project is
expected to be completed on schedule.
1.35 Discussions on health policy reform have resulted in efforts to develop a new
project. The proposed Community Health and AIDS Project (CHAP) was to address
health policy issues and to support efforts to contain the growing AIDS epidemic. As
preparation proceeded it was felt that the project as first designed would be extremely
complicated. Accordingly a decision to split CHAP into 2 closely linked projects - an
STD/AIDS project and, a District Health Services Project (DHSP) was made. In the
context of DHSP, which is planned for appraisal in the first half of 1994, Bank staff will be
seeking to reach agreement with the government on a Letter of Sector Policy and Action
Plan for the health sector, aiming at monitorability of implementation of the most
important policies in the White Paper (paras 1.10 - 1.13). First drfts of the LSP and
Action Plan have already been discussed with the Ministry of Health. The project is in
complete conformiity with IDA's country strategy for Uganda which emphasizes poverty
alleviation. The preventive component will help the population avoid AIDS-related
poverty, while the mitigation component will assist those who are afflicted.
1.36 IDA has been closely involved in the AIDS sector since 1988. In 1990-1991 IDA,
jointly with WHO and UNDP, led a multi-donor mission to review the AIDS situation in
Uganda and to work with the Government Task FGce on developing a multisectoral
response to the epidemic. Since then, support has been given for the establishment of the
Uganda AIDS Commission (UAC) by funding the post of Director-General. More



.11
recently savings from the First Health Project have been committed for procurement of
STD drugs and condoms.
1.37 The AIDS epidemic is already having a severe impact on the economy, especially
since so many of its victims are just reaching the prime of their active economic lives. The
Government is keen to have the Bank play a key role. Expenditures needed for AIDS
interventions are substantial and it has been demonstrated over the years that the AIDS
Control Program has been severely underfunded. Other donors have been reluctant to
finance the costs of treatment of STDs despite the high payoff. IDA is willing to finance
the operating unit costs of treatments as an investment in human capital. IDA would also
be able to ensure that appropriate policies such as decentralization and palliative home
care are adopted. Finally, IDA would play a highly effective role in addressing the
implementation problems of the AIDS program, as well as, act as a catalyst to attract
additional donor funding.
E. ROLE OF OTHER MAJOR DONORS
1.38 The combination of political stability, economic stability, and years of neglect by
donors have made Uganda an attractive and receptve recipient of foreign assistance. The
World Bank and the European Conmmty are the largest multilateral donors while
USAID, ODA, GTZ and DANIDA have been the most important bilateral donors.
1.39  Many multlateral, bilateral and private (NGO) donors support health activities of
various sizes and scopes. The MOH and most local NGOs receive the majority of their
support from these donors. According to a survey contracted by ODA, (UK) Uganda
received US$115 million for health and US$14 million for population in financial year
1991-92 out of which US$65 million came from multilateral sources, US$45 million from
bilateral and US$17 million from NGO sources.
1.40 In recent years, as donor contributions and coordination in health have increased,
the need to avoid duplication has become clear. IDA is in regular contact with all major
donors through donor coordination meetings and personal visits by Bank staff. The GOU
has also encouraged major donors to operate in separate districts in order to distribute
resources more evenly.
1.41 GPA provides long and short-term technical assistance to the GOU and has been
one of the main financial supporters of the ACP primarily in the areas of IEC,
epidemiology, patient care and STD control. Uganda is one of four countries where
WHO sponsored HIV vaccine trials will be launched. The United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) provides funding for the Uganda AIDS Commission Secretariat and
supports small, community-based projects concentrating on AIDS education and
counseling, care and education of orphans, and care of people with AIDS. UNICEF
provides funding to the Ministres of Health and Education to support the Health



12
Education Network. One component is a new Safeguarding Youth from AIDS project,
which focuses especially on preventing HIV infection among young women.
1.42  The United States Agency for Intemational Development's (USAID) Delivering
Improved Health Services project is about to begin a six year, US$25 million program in
10 districts of Uganda to reduce HIV transmission and fertility. It will focus on IEC,
provide HIV testing and counseling, and STD diagnosis. Condom and STD drugs will
not be provided on a large scale. USAID also has a US$12 million program, which is
contracted to World Learning Inc..
1.43 The European Community finances the national blood bank, which is responsible
for maintaining an HIV- free blood supply and conducts most of the HIV testing in
Uganda. The EC is also financing the rehabilitation of health facilities and service delivery
in eight districts and plans to expand this to three more districts. DANIDA (Denmark)
provides major funding and technical assistance for the provision of essential drugs and for
the improved operation of the Central Medical Stores. SIDA (Sweden) has provided
substantial assistance to the STI sub sector through GPA, UNICEF and the World Bank.
SIDA is cofinancing the IDA supported First Health project and is providing substantial
resources for the preparation ofthe proposed District Health Services Project. The
National TB care and Leprosy program, launched in 1990, covers 22 districts. It is funded
by a German NGO and the Italian government.
1.44 Several international NGOs are operating in fields related to AIDS prevention and
care and a multitude of National NGOs have emerged. This project will take advantage of
these resources by utilizing selected NGOs to implement some components.
1.45 Despite the many organizations and projects dealing with AIDS, and the high
visibility some have, most of them are small and have limited coverage and impact, leaving
significant gaps in the national response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. This project will
cover these gaps and ampify the response to a level where an impact on the future
evolution of the epidemiic can be expected.
F. LESSONS FROM OTHER BANK STI PROJECTS
1.46  IDA financed STIAIDS projects are limited to Zaire (1989), India (1991),
Zimbabwe and Brazil (1993). Others are under preparation in Nigeria and Kenya. A
number of Bank health projects have had STD control and AIDS components. Because
these are relatively new projects, formal evaluations have not yet been undertaken. Yet
some lessons are already clear or can be anticipated from experience in other health areas.
Drawing on the experience to date, seven key elements for success are suggested:
integrating the AIDS projects with other health activities by strengthening existing
systems
e  strengthening institutional capacity



13
* addressing STDs as well as AIDS
*  using NGOs and the private sector for implementation
* social marketing of condoms
* collaborating with other donors
* investing in a safe blood supply
1.47  There is little evidence from bank supported projects to provide guidance on how
to design a cost effective STD/AIDS program. There are no simple solutions to prevent
the spread of STDs since interventions must cope with a complex and personal aspect of
human sexual behaviors. Nonetheless some interventions have been shown to alter sexual
behavior, increasing condom use, and targeting different segments of the population with
specific messages has been effective. Lessons learned from AIDS programs all over the
world however show that effective and sustained behavior change can be achieved only
where the communities take the responsibility to address and change unsafe sexual
behaviors and take a collective responsibility for maintaining safer sexual behaviors.
1.48 Finally, if political support and commitment are absent, little progress can be made.
A strong national leader who can champion the cause as a national necessity as is the case
in Uganda, and can neutralize opposition by tradition or custom-bound interests is critical
for effectively addressing AIDS.
1.49 This project will address six of the seven key elements listed above. The seventh,
investng in safe blood supply is adequately supported by the European community. In
addition to these key elements, one major focus of this project is to shift the responsibility
of implementing activities from the central to district and community levels.



14
II. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECr OBJECTI IS
2.01 The NOP as endorsed by the Uganda AIDS Commission in October 1993 defines
national goals and priority interventions. Major national goals are:
(i)  to prevent transmission of HIV infection (goal I of the NOP);
(ii)  to mitigate the personal and community impact of HIV infection (goal II
NOP); and
(iii)  to strengthen the national capacity to respond to the AIDS epidemic (goal
III of the NOP).
2.02 Within these goals, the following objectives and sub-objectives have been
identified for this project:
(i)   To prevent sexual transmission of HIV by:
* promotion of safer semal behavior
. provision of condoms
promotion of STD care seeking behavior
* provision of effective STD care
(ii)   To mitigate the personal impact of AIDS by:
*  provision of support for community and home based health care and
social support for people with AIDS
* briefing of staff and provision of drugs for opportAistic infections and
protective supplies for district health facilities (government and non
govemment)
*  Provision of TB diagnosis and case management
(iii) To support institutional development to manage HIV prevention and AIDS
care by:
e strengthening the districts capacity to plan, coordinate, implement,
monitor and evaluate integrated AIDS related activities;
* strengthening the national capacity to provide adequate technical
support on health issues related to AIDS



'5
Achieving these objectives will be demonstrated by monitoring and measurement of the
indicators mentioned in Annex 10 of the SAR. In particular the following program targets
are set:
-    ability of 50% of the target population to cite at least two acceptable ways
of protecting themselves from HIV by the end of the project;
-    increase by 50% of reported condom use among the target population;
-    decrease by 20% of reported non-regular sexual partners; and
-    increase of appropriate STD case management to 70% of those irdividuals
seeking STD care.
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS
2.03 Consistency with Government Health Sector Strategy: The structure of this
project reflects and supports the movement in Uganda toward decentralization and
community mobilization (para 1.10-1.13). This project also supports and facilitates NGO
and community responsibility to coordinate AIDS related activities regardless of the
funding sources. The role of the ACP (central level) will be to establish guidelines,
provide training, technical and commodity support to district implementation. A linited
number of other central level functions such as social marketing of condoms will also need
to be organized directly and through NGOs. The central level will also be responsible for
overall awareness and mass mobilization.
2.04  The proposed project has three main components as well as a number of sub
components responding to the objectives and sub-objectives identified in the previous
Section. The components of the project are: Prevention of semual transmission of HIV;
mitigation of the personal impact of AIDS; and institutional development. The
project is designed to be flexible and innovative so as to encourage commun  initiatives.
Hence, by its very design, several activities will be "pilot" in nature.
C. PROJECT DESCRIMTION
Part A:     Prevention of Sexual Transmission of HIV (US$35.0 million)4
2.05 This component comprises of: promotion of safer sexual behavior, condom
procurement, provision of care and treatment of STDs.
4  Ptqect costs rfiet base cost excludig ontgeces.



16
2.06  Prevention is the only effective means to addrtss HIV since, once contracted,
AIDS appears to be fatal. Efforts to alter high risk behavior are central to prevention.
Experience from many settings shows that using a wide range of different approaches
produce better results than embarkir3 on only a few types of action. Centrally designed
and implemented campaigns as organized in Uganda during the implementation of the first
MI? of the National AIDS Program can influence knowledge and awareness, but are
limited in their ability to influence behavior change. In Uganda, actions aimed at behavior
change have been limited with only moderate impact. Future activities must therefore
address this gap by developing, implementing and evaluating well conceived intervention
that are specifically designed to address sexual risk behaviors.
2.07 The NOP calls for a focused approach addressing the individual as well as the
societal environment which determines the norms and the degree of freedom the individual
has to alter his/her behaviors and iisk situation. Several approaches to prevention will be
introduced or expanded, and each activity will be monitored and evaluated to guide future
resource allocations. These approaches supplement efforts already underway through
other donors including the ongoing IDA financed First Health Project. Three key
interventions are envisioned: Awareness and Mass Mobilization, community mobilization
activities; and targeted behavioral interventions/services.
2.08 Awareness: Previous television, radio, and newspaper campaigns to promote safer
sexual behavior have been shown to be effective in reducing and increasing awareness of
AIDS. In Uganda, television reaches predominantly the urban population. Although this is
a relatively small part of the Ugandan population, these individuals are at high risk and are
influential in setting standards for the country. Radio reaches a much larger audience even
in remote areas. Through the ongoing IDA supported First Health Project (FliP) mass
media activities have already been strengthened. Newspaper coverage is geographically
Limited and restrict-d to the literate population. The print shop at MOH has produced
useful and high quality materials on STIs which have been distributed to district hospitals
and primary health care facilities. These awareness activities will be continued and
strengthened for the purposes of:
e generating an overall supportive and conducive environment for implementing
effective interventions designed to target sexual behavior change, improve the
status of women, and protect children and adolescents against sexual abuse and
exploitation by adults.
*  providing information on the symptoms and consequences of STIs, how to avoid
STIs, the relationship between STD and HIV, prevention and treatment, the
importance of spousal communication regarding STIs, dispelling misconceptions
related to STIs, and how to access services for diagnosis and treatment of STIs.
2.09 The types of programs produced would include: public talks, quizzes, music and
drama competitions, and articles on local activities addressing STDs in the newspapers,
production of badges and pamphlets, as well as hard hitting advertisements and slogans



17
designed to promote safer sexual behavior. The projcct would support the production of
TV and radio materials by contracting out to competent local firms or NGOs. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that the production of TV and radio materials
would be undertaken through open competition (para 5.02). Annual plans for awareness
would specify prevention themes, strategies, approaches and activities for that year.
Central development of materials and media support will supplement the district's
responsibility for sponsoring a variety of activities, such as dramas, sports events for
youth, World AIDS Day, etc. These events and activities will be developed in accordance
with the prevention themes and messages for the year and will be evaluated accordingly.
A condition of effectiveness would be that the MOH would invite all broadcast media
entities to submitproposals to air programs for the first year of the project (para 5.11).
During negotiations assurances were obtained that a timetable for airing TV and radio
materials be submitted to IDA annually by March 31 (para 5.03).
2.10  Community Mobilization: Communities need to take responsibility for assessing
and dealing with their own risk situations, mobilizing their resources, both human and
financial, to supplement what will be made available through the project. Activities would
include: community discussions, consensus meetings to assess the risk situation,
development of action and monitoring of changes; community production of drama,
videos, etc.; community based counseling and sales of subsidized condoms, school
campaigns, or other innovative activities identified by the communities. Important
channels to reach and mobilize communities would be: the RC-system; local NGOs and
Community Based Organizations or groups (CBO); and other health or development
programs with already established infrastructures. Interventions will be developed and
implemented by the community with support for the district/subcounty and technical
assistance from the ACP.
2.11 Targeted Behavioral Interventions and Services: This subcomponent will target
specific sites and high risk populations through NGO and CBO programs designed to
cater to the needs of these groups. This may include simultaneously addressing non-health
needs, e.g. legal and social needs. Specific skills-based behavioral interventions, which
include modeling, role plays and practice, will be designed to facilitate risk-avoidance and
risk-reduction skills. These interventions will provide training in communication, social,
behavioral and decision-making skills for high risk populations such as adolescent girls,
professional sex workers, truck drivers, military; police; migrant workers, slum dwellers,
etc. Activities under this subcomponent will be contracted both to national NGOs with
extensive capacity and wide coverage and to local district based NGOs and CBOs with
experience in delivering behavioral interventions to high risk groups.
2.12 Provision of condoms: Condoms are an effective means of preventing
transmission of STI including HIV, but have not yet been readily available to or demanded
by most Ugandans. The need for condoms as protection against STIs has been estimated
to be approximately 425 million for the next 5 years. These condoms will be provided by
the project through: (i) public distribution at health centers and clinics; (ii) distribution
through NGOs and CBOs to low income, high risk populations; (iii) to organized groups



18
such as National Resistance Army, Police and Prisons; and (iv) through social marketing
where subsidized products are marketed through retail channels. A massive condom
distribution and promotion effort is planned for the entire country from the start of the
project.
2.13 National Medical Stores (NMS) will initially be responsible for all condom
procurement and for the distribution to districts. In later years, other agencies with
competence in procurement, would have the opportunity to compete for procurement
activities. NGOs, CBOs and others performing appropriate activities within the district
will be identified and supplied by the district health team. NGOs working on a nationwide
level will obtain supplies through an appropriate umbrella NGO which will order the
condoms from NMS according to demand. Staff will be trained to: (i) forecast and meet
demand; (ii) design systems to monitor condom availability; and (iii) assist districts in
monitoring condom use, particularly in high risk populations. A condition of egfectiveness
would be that the Government contracts suitable and appropriate organizations to
distribute condoms to NGOs in at least 20 districts (para 5.12).
2.14 The NMS will also be responsible for monitoring the quality of condoms by
running condom testing laboratories already established in the country. It will apply
appropriate quality assurance procedures to all consignments arriving in the country, and
to the condoms already stored at the various levels of the distribution systems. The NMS
has been recently restructured and is being strengthened with the assistance of DANIDA.
As part of its technical assistance, WHO will provide training in condom management and
logistics.
2.15 Social marketing of condoms is not yet effective in Uganda. The project will
support, strengthen and expand activities to make subsidized condoms available through
commercial outlets including pharmacies, markets and some community based
organizations. The project wii encourage competition between organizations in order to
make distribution more effective.
2.16  Provision of care and treatment of STDs: Since STDs are an important risk factor
for HIV infection, a key intervention in the prevention of HIV/AIDS is the control of
STDs. This involves prevention of STDs, as well as early diagnosis and effective
treatment. Prevention of STDs can be achieved by promoting safer sexual behaviors as
well as providinp condoms. Health care seeking behavior is a prerequisite for early
diagnosis and e.P- ctive treatment of STDs. Thus promotion activities will be planned to
target those at risk of acquiring STDs, and provide accessible and effective STD services
that include diagnosis, treatment, risk reduction, counseling, partner notification, and
provision of condoms.
2.17  Effective STD case management consistent with existing national guidelines will be
delivered through specifically trained health care providers. STD services will be
integrated with other health activities and available at selected prvate and public primary
health care (PHC) facilities, outpatient departnents of hospitals, maternal and child health



19
(MCH) clinics, family planning (FP) clinics, as identified by the DHT in each district. Care
through specialized STD clinics is often unsatisfactory because of poor accessibility and
the stigma of attending an STD clinic. Free standing STD clinics are therefore not part of
this project. The national STD reference center and its specialized clinic in Old Mulago
Hospital in Kamnpala will however serve as a national reference center for provision of
effective STD care and provide necessary technical support to districts (guidelines,
training, technical supervision). STD care will use simnple treatment algorithms based on
syndromic diagnosis and encourage public health measures such as health education and
partner notification. It will also include counseling and provision of condoms. Special
emphasis will be put on the delivery of services to individuals who are at increased risk for
STDs, including organized groups such as the police and the army. Three interventions
are envisaged: (i) promotion of STD care seeking behavior; (ii) provision of drugs for
STDs; and (iii) training in effective STD care.
2.18  Promotion of STD care seeking behavior: Providing treatment to those who seek
help from health services is not enough to control the high levels of STDs. It is also.
necessary to treat those infected individuals who do not spontaneously present themselves.
These may be the sexual partners of patients with STD who have been treated or women
who are asymptomatic or consider their mild symptoms to be normal. Program activities
will encourage infected individuals to notify their partners to seek treatment. Diagnosis
and treatment of syphilis in pregnant women will be done when they attend antenatal care
services. People at risk of acquiring STD will be educated on the signs and symptoms of
STD, and of the relationship of other STD to HIV. Promotion of health care-seeking
behavior will start when the appropriate STD treatments are available and focus on
enhancing partner notification activities as well as general promotion of STD treatment
seeking behavior.
2.19 This subcomponent supports the primary health care facilities that are currently
operating. It does not provide for the upgrading or rehabilitation of any new or exdsting
facilities. The major focus is on increasing staff capability in the primary health care
facilities.
2.20 Drugs for STDs: Uganda has adopted a cost-effective approach to the diagnosis
and treatment of STDs . Basic antibiotics are used to treat the ulcer diseases (syphilis and
chancroid) that facilitate HIV transmission, as well as genital discharge diseases that
include gonorrhea, chlamydia, and trichomonas. The drugs recommended meet WHO's
criteria for drug selection and are on the Uganda List of Essential Drugs. The project will
finance the procurement of drugs for STDs through CMS. The distribution of these drugs
will comply with cost-sharing procedures as established in the different health facilities.
2.21  Training in effective STD care: An important component in this project will be to
develop the institutional capacity to plan, coordinate, and implement the STD program,
particularly at the district level. Manpower development is considered an essential part of
institutional strengthening of the districts. Task-oriented training is vital for successful
implementation of interventions supported by this project. Therefore, the project will



20
fiance in-country training of trainers ,health assistants, midwives and traditional birth
attendants, laboratory technicians for the provision of effective STD care. Health workers
will be trained, mainly at district level with technical support from ACP and the National
Reference Center for STD.
Part B: Mitigation of the personal impact of AIDS (US$22.4 million)
2.22 Provision of support for community and home-based health care and social suppgort
for people with AIDS: The AIDS epidemic results in overstretching of existing hospital
capacity to provide health care in Uganda. Many AIDS patients need social and
counseling services that cannot be provided by government facilities. -Numerous NGOs
and CBOs are involved in supporting HIV/AIDS patients, but they often lack funds to
meet the full extent of the needs or provide services which are not cost-effective and
sustainable. Families providing care at home for their relatives, as well as other selected
camr providers, will be identified by the DHT and supported by this project. A condition
for disbursements would be for the district health teams to include. in their submission of
the initial annul district health plan. activities and earmked fh,ds for drugs to be
dstributed by NGOs and other community based organizations (pam 5.14). During
negotiatons assurances were obtained that, once the disbursement condition is lifted, the
yearly district health plans would include activities and earmarked funds for drugs to be
distributed by NGOs and other community based organizations (para. 5.04).
2.23 Guidelines for the care of AIDS patients with emphasis on home-based care and
daytime hospital care replacing hospitalization are reducing length of stay in hospitals have
been developed and widely distributed by ACP in collaboration with major NGOs. This
allows appropriate medical supervision and drug therapy while minmizing use of the
linited number of hospital beds. The project would finance contracts between DHTs,
NGOs and CBOs to implement home and community care of patients with AIDS. In
addition, the project will support the following accompanying activities:
*  defining specific home- and community-based care and support services that will be
funded;
*  defining the level of funding;
*  developing and disseminating requests for proposals from NGOs and CBOs;
*  preparing clearly established criteria for eligibility and evaluation of proposals;
e  establishing a district review panel and schedule to review and select the most
promising proposals;
*  coordinating selection of proposals among the districts involved;
*  training of NGO care providers; and
• monitoring and supervising each recipient NGO and CBO;
The services provided to AIDS patients would include at a minimum, drugs for
opportmistic infections, supplies for AIDS care, counseling and provision of counselors
and social support.



21
2.24 Provision of drugs against opportunistic infections and staff orientation: Patients
with AIDS are immuno-depressed and contract opportunistic infections including TB
(para 2.35) easily. Treatment of these infections can relieve suffering considerably.
District health facilities (government and non-government will be supplied with drugs for
the treatment of these opportunistic infections (Annex 7). Costing for drugs are based on
the assumption that 50% of all expected AIDS patients would require treatment of
opportunistic infections. Health care workers at all levels need to be briefed on the
concept of a continuum of care and their role in responding to the treatment needs of the
individual and also to the emotional and social needs. Current regulations for prescribing
drugs by lower level health workers are considered satisfactory.
2.25 Provision of Clinical and Protective Supplies: The AIDS epidemic has placed
additional and enormous strains on the health care system in Uganda. This project will
provide (i) clinical supplies needed for delivery of care with emphasis on STD care, TB
treatment and MCH/FP activities; and (ii) protective supplies for obstetrical care.
2.26 Latex gloves are needed for maintaining good medical practices in regard of
infectious diseases, including AIDS. Their use may prevent transmission to health
workers in health care facilities and in the community based care. Shortages are so severe
that even hospitals do not have a reliable supply. Priority will be given in the protection of
midwives in the districts. The project will finance 200,000 boxes of 100 gloves per year.
Supply of disposable syringes and needles cannot be sustained in Uganda and it is known
that without sustained and regular supply, the disposables are reused. For this reason, and
in light of Government policies guiding other health programs (e.g. i ion
program), only sterilizable syringes and needles will be supplied. This subcomponent
would finance sterilizable syringes and needles up to US$1.5 million over the life of the
project. Sterilization equipment is available throughout the country. Provision of
disinfectants, mainly sodium hydrochloride solution, is important to prevent infections in
health-care facilities. To meet this need US$0.5 million is allocated.
2.27 Diagnosis and case management of tuberculosis: From a public health standpoint,
the most serious of the many HIV-related infections is tuberculosis. Persons who are
immuno depressed contract tuberculosis more easily and will reactivate the TB bacillus
and infect others with whom they are in close contact. Treating tuberculosis not only
relieves the suffering of the individual but also prevents further spread. It is therefore of
priority and is a cost-effective intervention. Tuberculosis is the leading cause of death
from a single infectious disease agent throughout the world and is on the increase. In
Uganda, the AIDS epidemic has resulted in a massive increase in the incidence of
tuberculosis over half ofthe cases attributable to HIV infection. This has placed a strain
on the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Program (NTLP). With the current support to
22 (out of 39) districts from the German Leprosy Relief Association and the Italian
Cooperation, the program cannot manage the projected increase in cases. An increased
supply of drugs, laboratory supplies, laboratory upgrading, training for stag and
monitoring and external evaluation are needed.



22
2.28 The NILP program conducts 3 maior activities:
* passive case identification, mainly by sputum microscopy
* treatment according to different
e standardized recording and reporting
2.29 This project will provide the support necessary to maintain a supply of drugs
adequate to treat all tuberculosis cases promptly. The NTLP will continue its current
support which covers almost half the budget needs. The cost of this subcomponent will
escalate over the duration of the project as the number of suspect cases and diagnoses
increases. This project will finance the drugs for the districts which are not yet covered by
NTLP in accordance with its phased approach. An estimated 67,000 new TB cases wfll be
identified and have to be treated in Uganda over the next 5 years. The total cost for drugs
will be US$2.5 million over the life of the project. The project will also finance upgrading
of the reference laboratory (US$100,000); and small supplies such as microscopes,
sputum cups, reagents, and glassware (US$100,000).
Part C: Institutional Development (US$10.7 miBlion)
2.30 There are seven sub-components that are designed to provide institutional
strengthening and capacity building:
*  District and national capacity
*  Surveillance
*  Operational research
*  Monitoring and Evaluation
*  Innovative NGO activities
*  Project management
2.31  District Strengthening: Effective AIDS/STD prevention and care requires the fill
and reoriented attention of all parts of the health care system, as well as considerable
involvement of other sectors (public and private), and mobilization of political and
community efforts. The capacity for district planning and management to deal with AIDS,
including a suitable management information system needs considerable strengthening.
Specifically, strengthening at the district level is needed in:
*  supervisory capacity;
*  coordinating capacity;
*  planning capacity;
e monitoring and evaluation;
* surveillance; and
operational research



23
Additionally, the capacity to coordinate and supervise refers not only to the activities of
this project, but to all AIDS-related activities occurring in the district, regardless of sector.
For example, the district health team, will need to be aware of and/or coordinate AIDS,
activities in the schools, as well as in other community organizations. This area will
provide for training of district level personnel as well as the provision of necessary
materials and resources to perform these coordinating and supervisory functions. General
strengthening will be provided through the DHS Project.
2.32 This component will also finance strengthening of the National (central) capability
for intra- and inter-sectoral coordination and provide technical support to district
implementors. This will include (i) strengthening of ACP, especially its STD section
"equipment, stationary, logistics, organization of training of trainers, facilitation of district
training and technical supervision) at a cost of US$600 thousand and (ii) strengthening
STD Reference Center at Mulago Hospital (physical renovation, equipment, stationary,
logistics and incremental recurrent costs at a cost of US$450 thousand).
2.33   Surveillance: Close monitoring of the project will necessitate the collection and
analysis of appropriate data. This subcomponent is key to institutional strengthening and
provides basic information on the course of the epidemic and program impact. This data
will be critical for effective public health decision-maldng. While the HIV sentinel
surveillance system is reasonably well developed and complemented by many
epidemiological research projects, with technical and financial support from WHO/GPA
and others, there is a need to strengthen district surveillance of STDs and tuberculosis as
described below:
Training workshops for all staff at sentinel sites will continue. These workshops
provide a platform for discussion of problems and seek solutions for the same. New
staff at sites are introduced to the concepts of surveillance and other staff are given
refresher courses.
Sentinel sites are currently being visited every quarter in order to ensure that activities
being performed are consistent with required procedures. Methods employed in the
collection of blood are reviewed on site to ensure that all ethical aspects are
considered and that there is no breech of the same. Additionally, supply needs for
each are provided with their incentives and supplies replenished if necessary. This
system of supervision will be maintained and strengthened to ensure the smooth
running of sentinel surveillance.
The quality of data relies considerably on the use of standardized, comparable and
reliable laboratory procedures for HIV testing. Except for one site, Mbarara, HIV
tests are currently performed at the Uganda Virus Research Institute to enable
standardization and quality control of procedures. Staff at the unit will be given
refresher course in testing methods and procedures. Laboratory quality assurance
methods will be employed to ensure that good laboratory practices are employed and
sustained. Nakasero Blood Bank also performs high quality HIV test for Blood



24
Screening and for the AIDS Information Center (AIC) and would be a viable
alternative where training would not be necessary.
*  Current mechanisms of data generated from sentinel sites is through the AIDS
surveillance report. Site staff have complained that this report never reaches thn as it
is given to the hospital superintendent who rarely distribute it to other hospital staff. It
is suggested that the report be supplied to the hospital in the usual manner but an
additional copy be sent to sentinel surveillance staff on site.
* Sentinel surveillance does not currently cover all districts. Although it would be ideal
to have data on the level of infection in every district various considerations have to be
taken into account before such a decision is taken. The availability of resources,
financial and human, is of paramount concern. The more sites there are the more
difficult it is to supervise them and ensure that correct procedures are adhered to and
information obtained is reliable. There are at present no plans to increase the number
of sites to cover the whole country. What is required is what exists, few sites
strategicall located and efficiently run which generates accurate and reliable data to
give indications on the status of the epidemic.
* HIV surveillance activities are increasingly being integrated with other infectious
disease surveillance activities. Workshops on IRV surveillance include workers from
other disease surveillance programs. Particularly, HIV surveillance is being closely
linked to STD surveillance activities. Workshops and supervisory visits are now being
combined so that workers can share experiences and resources. Additionally, such
activities are being integrated into the general country health information system. The
creation of activities that are inter-linked with other programs is being fostered as
opposed to the creation of vertical programs.
2.34 Operational Research: This project will provide grants to undertake operational
research to improve interventions supported by the project. In particular, district based
operational research will be needed in the following areas: (i)assessment of models and
evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of the home cased care, (ii) validation of the
syndromic diagnosis of STDs, (ii) periodic validation of the STD treatment algorithms
and drug regimens, (iv) effectiveness of selected behavioral and medical interventions
supported by this project, ( v) periodic assessment of the STD surveillance system, and
(vi) improvement of database for estimation and projections of infections and AIDS case
load. A number of institutions such as Mulago Hospital, Makerere University, Institute of
Public Health, the Uganda Virus Research Institute and the Child Health Development
Center are involved in research with various medical, public health, sociological and
behavioral aspects of HIV and other STDs and can be contracted to undertake or
supervise such operational research.
2.35 Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring and evaluation are key components of the
STI project. Success in achieving project objectives will be assessed in three ways: (i)
assessment of project implementation by tracking "Project Activity Indicators'; (Ji)



25
assessment of project effectiveness through a) beneficiary assessment and (iii) assessment
of overall National AIDS Control Program Impact by tracking "Program Impact
Indictors". These indicators are taken from the WHO/GPA set of Prevention Indicators
(Prs) and Care Indicators (CIs) of which the PI have been extensively field-tested in
developing countries. Bi-annual reporting on the project activity indicators will be
conducted by districts to ACP who will produce progress reports for ]DA. Annual
supervisory reviews wili be performed. Beneficiay assessments and other evaluation
studies will be conducted at least once during the project period. Program Reviews wil
be performed after the first year, mid-way into the project and at the end of the project.
2.36 Innovative NGO Activities: Several NGOs are active in the HIV/AIDS field in
Uganda. Often, with small sums of money, they are able to develop and try out new
approaches. The project will support initiatives through the provision of US$3.0 million
to NGOs. Priority will be provided to NGOs identified and collaborating with DHTs and
able to develop interventions for prevention of sexual transmission for targeted
population, especially out of school youth, nrual women, commercial sex workers and
their clients. Proposed activities would be included in the annual work plans for review
and approval by IDA.
2.37  Project management: The project would support a project coordinator, an
evaluation officer, secretary and drivers. The project would utilize the services of existing
staff from the PIU of the First Health Project for accounting and procurement. The
Permanent Secretary (PS) would be the Project Director. 2 vehicles will be provided.
Approximately US$200,000 would be provided for the preparation of a subsequent
project and US$50,000 for a project launch workshop. A project coordinator, whose
qualifications and experience are satisfactory to IDA has been appointed (para 5.0la).
D. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
2.38 The Ministry of Health will be responsible for overall project coordination. The
PS, MOH will be the Project Director in charge of coordination and implementation. The
bulk of project activities will be implemented through district level organzations,
community groups and NGOs. The AIDS Control Program will provide strong technical
backstopping to the districts. The Director of ACP will have responsibility for the
technical aspects of the project.
2.39  A Project Steering Committee, chaired by ihe PS, MOH with representatives from
the MOH, MOI, MOLG, MOFP, UAC, NMS and ACP will be established to act as an
advisory body to the implementing parties. NGOs, other ministries and specialized
divisiorns within the MOH (MCH, PHC, etc.) will be invited to participate in the
Committee whenever necessary. The Project Coordinator will be the Secretary of the
Steering Committee. A Project Steering Committee has been appointed and the members
are listed in Annex 12 (para 5.01b).



26
2.40  At the district leveL the District Medical Officer will be responsible for
coordinating project activities. In the decentralized districts he will work closely with the
DES who will be the accounting officer. He will work closely with NGOs active in the
district as well as with members of the District Health and Development Committees
(DHC and DDC), and community groups to ensure that services are provided to the
largest groups of peoples within the district that could play an active role in the control of
STIs.
2.41 Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). A project Coordinator, (a Ugandan national),
has been appointed and located in the PIU of the First Health Project. The Project
Coordinator will work in close cooperation with the Program Manager of the ACP.
Accountants, procurement specialists, and other support staff already in place for the First
Health Project will support this project as needed. Depending on the need, financing of
these will be taken over by the project when the First Health Project comes to an end. An
evaluation officer will be appointed for this project. Short-term consultancies will be
approved by IDA as required on an ad hoc basis. The role of the PCU will be to facilitate
the implementation of the project, including handling the administrative requirements of
IDA. Local and international contracting will be utilized to the maxnmum extent for
several implementation actions, e.g. procurement of drugs and condoms.
2.42 All project activities will be undertaken by existing units or offices of the health
system. No new government office will be created though provision does eist for the
expansion of successful NGOs. Supplies such as condoms, drugs, diagnostics and
protective items are procured by the NMS following procedures agreed on with IDA.
Supplies will be distributed according to the workplans of the respective program offices.
The expenditures in this project are part of the development budget and will be controlled
and accounted for by the PS, MOH. All government audit and accounting procedures
apply. DMO will receive their financial allocations from the PS, MOH and will be
accountable to him for the proper utilization of the same. The DMS and technical staff of
the MOH will provide the technical backstopping to the DMO as usual.
2.43 Status of project preparation. The project was prepared by the Govermment with
assistance from experts from the WHOIGPA and outside consultants. Its objectives and
activities have been formulated within the framework of the Governent's National
Operational Plan 1994 to 98 (NOP). Several reports have previously been written and
these were of great use in project preparation. A detailed procurement plan has been
drawn up and is included as Annex 11. A draft implementation plan has been submitted
(para 5.01c).
2.44 Implementation schedule. Project implementation is expected to take six years,
starting in July 1994. A condition of effectiveness would be that the Government
furnishes IDA with a final implementation mamualfor allnroiect components fpara
5.13). Implementation will follow a phased approach as described in the NOP, i.e. 8
districts in the first year, 14 districts in the second year and the remaining districts during
the third year. Implementation during the fourth and fifth years will concentrate on



27
Districts will be selected from those who, when the annual work plan is prepared have
been administratively decentralized. Selection of the districts wili, if feasible, coincide
with that of the District Health Services Project. The STI project will be completed by
December 31, 1999 and project accounts will be furnished by June 30, 2000.
E. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
2.45 Evaluation framework. The success of the project will depend on three major
factors:
* how well the specific objectives and activities of the STI project are pursued,
* the effectiveness of the interventions actually implemented
* performance in implementing the overall Uganda National AIDS Control effort,
i.e. the sum of all AIDS related activity regardless of their source of funding.
To assess these factors and the success of the project, the following monitoring and
evaluation activities are planned:
3 Surveillance and monitoring of behavioral and health outcome data
* Monitoring of project implementation
* Assessment of selected intervention effectiveness
* Assessment of overall program impact
Two sets of indicators have been developed and are set out below, one for assessing
progress in performing project activities (Project Activity Indicators), the other for
assessing overall program impact (Program Impact Indicators). These Program Inpact
Indicators have been developed by WHO and extensively field tested. Effectiveness,
including cost-effectiveness of selected interventions, will be determined through special
operational research. District as well as the Central Management will be strengthened to
use the lessons learned to re-direct and to manage AIDS activities.
2.46 Routine Reporting. The ACP will have responsibility for monitoring indicator
data reported by the district health team. The ACP is expected to report semi-anmually on
progress or delays in specific components. The ACP will collate the various monitoring
data in semi-annual progress reports. These progress reports will be forwarded to IDA,
and form the basis for discussions of supervision missions. As far as possible, monitoring
and evaluation will be incorporated into district routines and systems, to build capacity and
avoid duplicate monitoring and reporting. During negotiations assurances were obtained
from Government that progress reports and beneficiary assessment data will be
consolidated by the ACP and sent to IDA, through the Permanent Secretary, MOH every
six months (para 5.05).



28
2.47  Program Reviews. At the end of the first year, government and IDA will
perform an initial program review to assess the expeience of implementation in the 8 pilot
districts. In addition, to ensure that a full assessment is undertaken when its conclusions
may still be of use to the project, Govermment and IDA, with the assistance of WHO, will
conduct a mid-term program review that will coincide with the review of the Uganda
National Operational Plan for HIVAIDSISTD Prevention, Care and Support occuring
mid-way in the project At the end of the project a final review will be conducted to
determine program success and plan for future activities. This again will coincide with the
review of the overall National Operational Plait. Government will prepare a project
completion report within six months of the project closing date, based upon a format to be
agreed with IDA. During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that a
mid-term evaluation of the project be held in 1996 and that a project completion report be
prepared by government within 6 months of the project closing date (para 5.06).
2.48 Supervisory visits. In addition to these program reviews annual routine
supervisory visits will be performed by IDA. During the routine visits, annual work plans
will be assessed and finalized and the previous yeares progress will be reviewed with IDA
to enable the project to be responsive to the changing environment. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that work plans will be submitted to IDA by March 31 annually
(Oara 5.07).
2.49 Project Beneficiaries. The primary emphasis and beneficiary in this project will
be young women. The project and the program will also benefit youth ages 6-20 years
old; individuals with sexually transmitted infections; potential and current condom users
and their semal partners; pregnant women and their unborn children who receive antenatal
care; individuals with HIV/AIDS and their families; individuals with tuberculosis and their
families and colleagues; health care workers who are trained and who treat HIV, other
sexually transmitted infections and TB. It is important to (a) monitor whether these
intended beneficiaries indeed benefit in the way expected, and (b) get feedback on their
attitudes and satisfaction about the program to help reorient and improve the program.
Selected indicators discussed in paragraph 2.57 and 2.58 will track project success with
regard to (a). Activities described in the foliowing paragraph will assess success with
regard to (b).
2.50 Beneficiary Assessment. Qualitative surveys, focus groups, key informant
interviews, and routine feedback will be used to collect information and views on program
implementation and impact from beneficiaries. These beneficiary assessments will be done
periodically via distict staff and contract with local technical consultants. More in-depth,
quantitative assessments of beneficiaries of the project will be done through operaional
research by the ACP with consultant assic' A",ce as needed. These beneficiary assessments
are discussed in more detail in Annex 10.
2.51  Project Activity Indicators Project Activity Indicators are designed to monitor
implementation performance with respect to the project objectives listed in paragraph
2.11. The district will play a key role in assessing project success and using this



29
information to make program improvements. These key Project Activity Indicators will be
monitored at the district level, strengthening monitoring routines and systems already in
place. There are specific Project Activity Indicators for each of the sub-objectives of the
STI project. These indicators are consistent with those indicators specified in the National
Operational Plan and are listed in the Indicators Matrix included in Annex 10.
2.52 Program Impact Indicators. This second set of indicators are called Program
Impact Indicators. They are national and tied to the overall AIDS control effort in
Uganda. Most are standard indicators, developed and field-tested by WHO and are
considered state-of-the-art. Since overall success of the national program is of major
importance to the project, the attainment of these objectives, as measured by the selected
indicators, will be monitored closely by project management. If, as a result of monitoring,
it becomes evident that progress is not being made on the national program objectives,
project funds may be reallocated to help attain these broader program objectives. The
overall program objectives of the NOP that are relevant to the STI project, and associated
indicators, are listed in the Indicators Matrix in Annex 10.
2.53 Baseline Baseline information will be collected on all indicators early in 1994 and
then analyzed annually through the monitoring and surveillance systems (described below).
Realistic activity and impact targets will be developed after baseline data has been
analyzed. For example, if baseline data show that only 50%/O of the requests for STD drugs
are currently being filled, then the end-of-project target might be set as 70%.
2.54 Surveillance Close monitoring of the STI project will require the collection and
analysis of appropriate demographic, behavioral, social and health outcome data, collected
at the district level and analyzed on the district and national level. These surveillance
activities are key to the evaluation of this project at both the district and central level, as
they provide information essential to basic program decision-maling. Surveillance
activities will be strengthened by the STI project in the following areas:
• HIV Sentinel surveillance
* STD surveillance
* TB surveillance
In addition special surveys will be conducted to determine:
* change in sexual behavior
* change in attitudes towards safer sexual practices
* AIDS/STD health care seeking behaviors.
2.55 HIV Sentinel Surveillance. HIV sentinel surveillance will foilow WHO
recommendations for anonymous unlinked (blind) testing in selected populations from
whom blood is routinely drawn for other reasons. Such surveillance is considered more
useful and cost effective than community-based HIV surveys. It allows officials to assess
the extent to which HIV has penetrated the population. HIV sentinel surveillance support



30
the extent to which HIV has penetrated the population. HIV sentinel surveiliance support
will continue to be provided by ACP to the districts to strengthen the existing systems.
Sentinel surveillance sites currently are located in antenatal clinics in 13 districts
Annex 10.
2.56 STD Surveillance. STD surveillance is done using the syndromic approach and
needs considerable strengthening. Objectives, indicators and standard methods for
surveillance and screening needs to be developed, and training manuals or videos and
standard reporting forms need to be produced and distributed to district hospitals and
primary health centers who would return them to the Reference Center at Mulago
hospital. Currently there are 13 PHC using the syndromic approach that report STDs to
the reference center at Mulago hospital.
2.57 TB Surveillance. Surveillance for tuberculosis is needed as the disease is the most
serious opportunistic infection associated with HI.V as it is highly infectious to otherwise
healthy members of the population. Activities would include extending the current
reporting and monitoring system and training professional staff in district hospitals and
primary health centers in clinical diagnosis and treatment of tuberculosis. These activities
would be undertaken as part of the case management of tuberculosis and be coordinated
with the NTLP.
2.58 Strengthening of Surveillance Systems. The project will support the
strengthening of surveillance systems through design of forms, local training, office
supplies, blood testing kits, vehicle running costs, and local consulting services.
2.59 Operational Research. Operational research conducted at the national level will be
essential to the determination of the effectiveness of the STI project. Little is known
about the impact of the increased morbidity and mortality caused by AIDS on the various
sectors, and how this can be dealt with in the national development planning processes.
Support will be given for a joint MOHtACP and Ministry of Planning study, which wil
contract appropriate national and/or international institutions. Additionally a number of
institutions such as Mulago Hospital, Department of Social Work, Makerere University,
Institute of Public Health, Child Health Development Center, and the Uganda Virus
Research Institute are involved in research on the medical, public health and sociological
aspects of STDs and HIV/AIDS. The MOH in Uganda will solicit operational research
proposals for approval from IDA, and (with the assistance of WHO or other experts) in
the following areas:
*  Assessment of models of home-based care, including evaluation of cost-
effectiveness; (managed Central level)
*  Validation of the syndromic diagnosis of STDs; (managed Central level)
*  Periodic validation of STD treatment algorithms and drug regiment; (Central level)
*  The effectiveness of selected interventions supported by the project; (District level)
* Follow-up on the National Sero Survey of 1987/88 in selected clusters using the
same protocol and sampling frame



3)
* The impact of AIDS on various seciors (Central level)
*  periodic assessment of the surveillance systems and patterns of HIV/STD/AIDS
(Central level)
The STI project will provide grants to institutions to undertake operational research in
these areas, which are key to the success of this project. Funding for AIDS vaccine
research is specifically excluded. All proposals would need to be reviewed by the ACP
and the Project Coordinating Unit before submission to IDA for review and approval.
Bio-medical research proposals will also require an independent panel review. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that all bio-medical research proposals would be
reviewed by an independent review panel (para 5.08).
2.60 Use of surveillance and evaluation data. For this project to be successful, it is
essential that information obtained from surveillance, monitoring and evaluation activities
be used in program planning and decision-making. Emphasis will be on using information
as close to the source of data as possible. That includes the individual, community, health
tsility, Subcounty, District and Central level. To ensure this, training in how to use
surveillance and evaluation results in program planning and public health decision-maldng
will be conducted. Annual work plan should include a section on how evaluation data has
been used for program improvements. Assurances should be sought in this regard.



32
III. COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS
A. COSTS
3.01 The total cost of the project is UgSh 103.9 billion or US$73.4 million equivalent.
Base costs are estimated at US$68.1 million equivalent (92.7%) and contingencies at
US$5.2 million equivalent (6.3%). Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$55.6
million or 75.7% of total project costs. Taxes and duties are negligible. All costs are
based on Nov. 1993 prices. Project costs are summarized by component in Table 1.
3.02 Project costs by expenditure category are shown in Table 2. Drugs account for
29% of base costs, Supplies for 35% and Services for 12%.
3.03  Sources of cost estimates. All costs are estimates and obviously subject to
change. The costs of condoms was based on information from staff at the ACP and World
Bank staff knowledgeable about current international tender prices. Pharmaceutical costs
were estimated from the Uganda Government Medical Stores most recent price list, data
from the essential Drugs Program, and from WHO for drugs not currently in use in
Uganda. The prices for supplies (rubber gloves, syringes, disinfectant) and small
equipment (petri dishes, laboratory slides and covers, etc.) are based on quotations from
suppliers, and the UNICEF UNIPAK catalogue. Costs of diagnostic test were provided
by WHO.
3.04 The project includes: 425 million condoms at a unit cost of US$0.02 each; 10
million pairs of latex gloves at US$0.04 a pair; and I million bottles of disinfectant at
US$0.50 per bottle. Both surgical and examination gloves will be obtained as necessary.
Local training and service costs and operational and maintenance expenses are based on
current actual MOH costs.
3.05 Cost Contingencies and Exchange Rate. The total costs include an allowance of
US$5.2 million equivalent for contingencies. Price contingencies are 5% and total US$5
million equivalent. Price contingencies have been estimated using Bank projections of
international and domestic inflation, and assume the annual rates of increase set out in
Table 3. The exchange rate used for 1993 is 1282.9 UGSh = US$1. The nominal
exchange rate is assumed to adjust during the life of the project so as to maintain a
constant real exchange rate, given these projected inflation differentials.



33
Table 1: Component Project Cost Summary
%      % Ttal
(SF Blo)                 (US$ MMllon)    Foedg      BP
Loed   Foreigm   Total    Loal   Foreign   Totdal  Exchange   Cosb
1. Prevention of Sexual Transmission of HIV    10.6    34.2    44.9     8.3     26.7     35.0      76        51
2. Mitigation of the Personal Impact of AIDS  1.9    26.9    28.8       1.5     21.0     22.4       94       33
3. Institutional Development                 8.8      5.0     13.8      6.8      3.9     10.7       36       16
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                        21.2     66.2    87.4    16.6       51.6    68.1        76       100
Physical Contingencies                       0.0      0.2      0.2      0.0      0.1      0.2       88
Price Contingencies                          3.9      12.4    16.2      1.2      3.8      5.0       76        7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         25.1     78.7    103.9    17.8      55.6     73.4       76       108
Table 2: Project Costs by Expenditure Accounts
%    %Totd
(Uulillon)               (USS Million)    Foregn    Bm
Loal   Foreign   Totl    Lo       Foreign   Tod     Exchan     Cosb
L Ivestent Costs
A. Equipmet                   0.5      1.6      2.1      0.4      1.3      1.7       75        2
B. Drugs                       '       25.8    25.8              20.1    20.1       100       29
C. Supplies                    -       30.9    30.9       -      24.1     24.1      100       35
D. Scvices                    5.3      5.3      10.5     4.1      4.1      8.2       50       12
E. Local Tnining              4.2               4.2      3.2       -       3.2       -         5
F. TcbnicAssistnce-                    0.4      0.4               0.4      0.4      100        1
.Vehicles                      -       2.2      2.2               1.7      1.7      100        2
L Allowances                  0.9               0.9      0.7       -       0.7                 1
J. Research                   2.6               2.6      2.0               2.0                 3
K..Monitoring                 3.6               3.6      2.8       _       2.8                 4
L. Study                      0.3         0 .3           0.3               0.3       -
Total Iestment Costs          17.4    66.2    83.6       13.5    51.6    65.1        79       96
IL Recurrent Costs
A. Operational Costs          3.9               3.9      3.0       -       3.0       .         4
Totl Recurren Costs           3.9       -       3.9      3.0               3.0       -         4
Total BASELE COSTS            21.2     66.2    87.4    i6.6      51.6    68.1        76       100
Physical Contineces           0.0      0.2      0.2      0.0      0.1      0.2       88
Price Contingencies           3.9      12.4    16.2      1.2      3.8      5.0       76        7
Totl PROJECT COSTS            25.1     78.7    103.9    17.8    55.6    73.4         76       108
Table 3: Assumed Rates of Inflation
1994         1995         1996         1997         1998
Foreign               2.5          2.5          2.5          2.5          2.5
Local                 7.5          6.3          5.0          5.0          5.0



34
3.06 Foreign Exchange Costs. Foreign exchange costs of US$55.6 million are
calculated on the following basis: (a) condoms 100%; (b) drugs and supplies 100%; (c)
services 500/O, (d) medical equipment 75%.
3.07 Recurrent Costs and Sustainability. The recurrent cost implications of the
project are small to the govennment budget. No new building are being constructed, and
no additional staff are likely to be hired. Government will finance the maintenance costs
of new equipment purchased, through the MOH budgetary allocation. These costs are
estimated at 5% of purchase price annually. The project will be managed by staff already
in place except for a project coordinator, secretary and driver. Most ACP staff are already
on MOH payroll. Other PIU staff are being funded through the First Health Project.
3.08 Given that the health sector has been seriously underfunded over the past several
years, the MOH has been unable to finance the purchase of drugs or pay a living wage to
its staff It is expected that Treasury allocations for health will increase. At the same time
a number of cost recovery measures as weDl as decentralization of health services are being
introduced. These issues are being addressed through the proposed District Health
Services project currently under preparation and expected to be appraised during this
fiscal year.
3.09 Expenditures on condoms and STD drugs are substantial and likely to remain high
over the medium term. Donor funding for these commodities will be necessary for the
foreseeable future. The cost of maintaining new equipment purchased through the project
is expected to be 5% of purchase price annually. These amounts will be included in the
anua budgetary allocations of the MOH.
3.10 At the district level there will be increased costs of travel for health staff following
up STD and Tuberculosis cases. With decentralization districts will be empowered to
allocate their budgets in accordance with health care priorities. It is also envisaged that,
wherever possible, charges will be made for condoms and STD drugs. The proceeds of
these charges will be retained within the district health budget.
3.11 The annual costs of the project in the first year is equivalent to about 15% of the
1993/94 total MOH budget, which was UgSh 54.5 billion (UTS$45.4 million equivalent).
As part of its structural adjustment program, the Govermment has committed itself to
increase the share of the budget devoted to the social sectors. Hence, the annual cost of
the proposed project would not exceed 20% of the MOH budget (net of the project
allocation).
3.12 Recurrent cost savings. Many of the consumable items being funded are
investments in human capitaL and will restore good health or prevent illness. Condoms,
drugs for TB treatment and gloves for health workers are examples. Provision of these
items reduces rather than incurs recurrent costs in the health sector: every TB patient
treated, or evely HIV-infection averted, reduces the number of future potential patients
seeldng health care.



35
3.13  Left unchecked, STD infections in men cause mild to severe genital or urinary tract
problems and can cause infertility. The consequences for women, who are often
asymptomatic and therefore unaware of the infection, include adverse outcomes of
pregnancy for mothers and newborns, infections in newborns and infants, infertility,
cervical cancer, and in some cases death. These impose vastly higher costs than STD
treatment. The direct drug costs of presumptive treatment of the most common STD
syndromes are US$2.91 (for Genital Ulcer Disease), US$3.43 (for urethral discharge) and
US$4.23 (for vaginal discharge). Viewed another way, it has been estimated that at
US$10/hour for clinic time, in a country with an HIV seroprevalence rate of 5% (less than
half the seroprevalence rate in Uganda), treatment of a core group of high-risk STD
patients costs between US 11  and 969 per healthy life year saved, and is an extremely
cost-effective health intervention.
3.14 With HIV/AIDS, of course, the inevitable result for the patient is death. The result
for the health care system is that the patient suffers an average of nine episodes of HIV-
related infections during the roughly one year between the onset of fill-blown AIDS and
death. It is estimated broadly that each case of AIDS in Uganda imposes direct costs of
more than US$1,000. Moreover, most people with AIDS are in the most economically
productive age group (15-45), and leave young and aged dependent survivors, with
greater attendant costs to the economy and society. In 1992 the numbers of orphans was
estimated to be 272,000 and this figure is expected to reach 1,022,000 in 1998. The total
indirect costs of one AIDS case have been calculated in some countries as 20 times as
great, as the direct cost-perhaps as much as US$19,000 per case in Uganda. The direct
cost of a year's supply of condoms for a sexually active person in Uganda would be
US$4.00. Alternatively, each unit of blood screened in a country with 10% HIV
seroprevalence costs an estimated US$9. 10 per lIV case prevented.
3.15 During the past two years, the health share of the overall budget has remained at
9%/o, reflecting GOU's commitment to protect social expenditures during the adjustment
program. The Government's intention is that the share of the budget devoted to social
sectors, including health, will increase in the future. However, in view of the magnitude
of the present gap between health expenditures and needs (para. 1.08 above) it is not
possible that at the end of the project, Government will be able to take over and sustain
the financing of condoms and all drug needs, particularly if the incidence of HIV-related
illnesses continues at current rates.
3.16 Without the inputs to be provided through the project, a much more serious
sustainability problem-. ould arise. The large amounts of money spent on health facilities
and the training and wages of health workers are wasted if adequate drugs and other
supplies are not available. Therefore, the project is helping to ensure the sustainability and
impact of past and existing large investments in health care. Moreover, the project will
prevent and cure illness and therefore reduce spending on health care, and reduce potential
productivity losses because of illness and death and the loss of accumulated human capital
of people who die young of AIDS.



36
B. FINANCING
3.17 The total project cost of US$73.4 million equivalent wili be financed as follows: a
proposed Bank credit of US$50 million would cover 68% of total project cost and 73% of
foreign exchange costs. SIDA will finance US$5 million in joint co-financing; the funds
will be administered by the Bank. KfW and ODA will finance US$6.8 million and US$4.2
million respectively in parallel financing. WHO and USAID have agreed to provide
technical assistance and training outside the project. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that the Government would by Dec. 31, 1994, submrit formal evidence that such
financing has been secured for the project (para. 5.09). The Government would finance
from its annual budget the remaining costs of UGSh9.5 billion (US$7.4 million equivalent)
or 10% of the total, including all taxes and duties. The project has been listed "as core' in
the country's development estimates. Hence, counterpart funding has been assured.
Table 4: Financing Plan
([US$ Million)
xen m CateWory   IDA SI                      ODA      Govt    Total
Drugs & Equipment       17.9           5.0                       22.9
Supplies                20.4           1.8       4.2            26.4
EEC Materials            8.8                                      8.8
Local Training           0.2                            3.3       3.5
Technical Assistance     0.4                                      0.4
Vehicles                 1.9                                      1.9
Allowances               0.0                            0.9       0.9
Research & Monitoring    5.1                                      5.1
Studies                  0.3                                      0.3
Recurrent Costs          0                              3.2       3.2
Total                   55.0           6.8       4.2    7.4      73.4
C. PROCUREMENT
3.18 Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5. Items financed by
IDA/SIDA will be procured as discrete procurements according to IBRD guidelines as
elaborated in paras. below.



37
Table 5. Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
(IDA Contributions Shown in Brackets)
Project Element       ICB      LCB       Other      NBP       Total
Drugs & Equipment    16.4                 1.5        5.ob     22.9
(16.4)               (1.5)     (0.0)    (17.9)
Supplies              18.9       1.0      0.5        6.0      26.4
(i8.9)    (I1.0)    (0.5)     (° °)    (20.4)
TEC Materials          8.8                0.2                  9.0
(8.8)              (0.2)                (9.0)
Local Training                            3.3                  3.3
(0.0)               (0.0)
Technical Assistance                      0.4                  0.4
(0.4)               (0.4)
Vehicles               1.9                                     1.9
(1.9)                                   (1.9)
Allowances                                           0.9       0.9
(0.0)     (0.0)
Research/Monitoring                       5.1                  5.1
(5.1)               (5.1)
Studies                                   0.3                  0.3
(0.3)               (0.3)
Recurrent Costs                                      3.2       3.2
(0.0)     (0.0)
TOTAL                 46.0       1.0     11.3       15.1      73.4
(46.0)    (1.0)     (8.0)     (0.0)    (55.0)
3.19 Drugs and equipment (US$22.9 million). will be procured through ICB
procedures according to IBRD guidelines. These items, which include drugs for STDs,
Tuberculosis and HIV related infections will be grouped together wherever possible and
'  NBF: Not Bak Finaced Crodt
b  Cofinanced in parallel by KfW and ODA; pmcuWed with KtW and ODA reaiOms.



38
procured on a semi annual basis based on projected requirements agreed to by IDA.
There are currently no manufacturers of these items in Uganda. However, if local
manufacturers begin during the life of the project, domestic preference will be applied
during bid evaluation. Larger tenders are expected to be placed twice each year. Should
unforeseen needs or emergencies arise, international shopping according to IBRD
guidelines will be used for goods valued at no more than US$250,000 per package, up to
a total of no more than US$1.5 million. During negotiations the government firnished
IDA with sample tender documents for drugs which are considered to be satisfactory (para
5.01d).
3.20 Medical Equipment and Supplies (US$20.4). Medical and protective supplies
would be procured on the basis of procurement tables that take into account usage
patterns. These items would be grouped together wherever possible. Tenders in excess of
US$300,000 million would be procured through ICB according to IBRD guidelines.
Procurement below this amount would be carried out through local competitive bidding
procedures (LCB) acceptable to IDA. LCB procurement should not exceed US$1.0
million. Procurement below US$250,000 would be procured through international or
local shopping requiring three quotations in accordance with IBRD guidelines up to a total
of no more than U$0.5 million. Condoms will be procured through ICB procedures
according to IBRD guidelines. As some of the lowest cost producers may not be very
reliable in making delivery dates, and produce unacceptably low quality condoms pre-
qualification based on quality control will be required. Condom orders would be placed
annually with an agreed delivery schedule. During negotiations the government firnished
IDA with sample tender documents for condoms which are considered to be satisfactory
para 5.01d).
3.21 IEC materials for TV, Radio, Video,newsprint and Vehicles (US$10.7
million) will be procured through ICB procedures. These items will be procured on a
semi-annual basis based on projected requirements agreed to by IDA. 8 vehicles for
mobile video programs (US$1.9 million) will be procured through ICB procedures
according to IBRD guidelines.
3.22 Consultants' services (Technical Assistance, Studies, Research and
Monitoring) (US$1.7 miRlion). International and local consultants' services would be
procured according to the IBRD guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
3.23 Tender documentation format. IBRDs standard bidding documents will be used
in all ICB procurements under this project. (Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the EBRD, documents based on accepted international
standard forms will be used).
3.24 Procurement Review Thresholds. Bidding packages and proposals for contract
award for all procurements in excess of US$150,000 will be submitted to the IDA for
prior review of tender documentation in accordance with the IBRD guidelines.



39
D. DISBURSEMENT
3.25 Disbursements from the IDA credit will cover the percentage of total expenditures
as indicated in Table 6.
Table 6: Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Disbursement Category    IDA Allocation              % of Expenditure
US$ million                to be Financed
1. Drugs, Supplies and        33.3          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
Equipment                                 ex-factory local expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures for other items
procured locally
2. EEC Materials               5.5          90% of all expenditures
3. Training                    0.2          90% of all expenditures.
4. Technical Assistance        0.4          100% of all expenditures.
5. Vehicles                    1.9          100% of foreign expenditures.
6. 'Monitoring/Research        4.5          90% of all expenditures
7. Studies                     0.3          100% of all expenditures.
8. Unallocated                 3.9
TOTAL                          50.0
3.26 The IDA credit will be disbursed over a period of six years, from 1994-2000, with
procurement and disbursements completed by June 30, 2000 (completion date) and
December 2000 (closing date) respectively. The disbursement estimates are based on the
following rationale: i) there are no civil works included in this project which tend to slow
down disbursements; ii) the project management unit has streamlined its procedures under
the First Health Project; and iii) the tender documents for drugs and condoms are ready
for bidding as soon as the project becomes effective. The proposed allocation of the
credit and an estimated quarterly schedule are shown in Annex 13. All applications to
withdraw proceeds from the IDA credit will be fully documented, except for equipment
contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent ,for which disbursements will be made
against certified statements of expenditure (SOE). Supporting documentation will be
retained by project executing agencies and will be available for review as requested by
IDA supervision missions and project auditors.



40
E. ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
3.27 Project accounts wili be established and maintained by the existing PIU in MOH.
ACP will send all relevant information quarterly to the PIU A Special Account will be
opened for this project and maintained with a commercial bank. The maximum balance in
the Special Account will be US$2 million, which will cover about 3 months of
expenditures.
3.28 Audit. The Government's performance in auditing project accounts under First
Health Project has generally been acceptable. At present, First Health Project audits aie
up-to-date. The quality of the audits has also been satisfactory. During negotiations
assurances were obtained from Government that all project accounts will be audited by the
Auditor General and that all audited accounts, together with the auditors' report, will be
submitted to the IDA not later than six months after the end of each Government fiscal
year (para 5.10). In auditing STI project accounts, the auditors will pay special attention
to verifing the reliability of SOEs, and to the internal controls and procedures involved in
the preparation of SOEs.



41
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01 The project would have an immediate impact by making STD care available
nationally. It would strengthen the government's ability to deal with opportunistic
infections such as TB. Through the provision of condoms, the project would have an
immediate effect on the transmission of STDs. In the medium term, the project will
directly benefit 66500 tuberculosis patients and their families, fellow-workers and others
who would be at risk of infection through contact with them. It will provide condoms to
an estimated 4 million persons, thus protecting them and their sexual partners from the
risk of contracting HIV and STDs. The project will furnish sufficient diagnostics to test
every pregnant women who seeks care from syphilis during the life of the project,
benefiting them and their unborn children. More than 1.9 million people with HIV will
receive care for various infections. Protective supplies will safeguard an estimated 7000
health workers from the risk of HIV and their tens of thousands of patients from
nosocomial and iatrogenic infections.
4.02 By the end of the project, Uganda will have developed the capacity to procure
condoms, giving a greater degree of control and information on deliveries, rather than
relying on donors. Stockouts will have been avoided through the project, and the periodic
time-and energy consuming supply crises that have arisen in the past will have been
avoided. Country-wide reliable supplies of condoms will have enabled the 4 million
people who are expected to be persuaded by the public-information campaigns to use
condoms to do so.
4.03 The project will finance implementation of the National STD Prevention and
Control Program. Provided their program is implemented according to plan, by the end of
the project, detection and treatment of STDs should be fully integrated into every level of
the health care system. The project will facilitate the selection of the most cost-effective
treatment regimen, and support a switch away from sub-optimal regiments where
warranted.
4.04 The TB control program will have received the drugs and small increase in
operating budget needed to treat all identified cases, follow-up patients to help ensure
compliance with treatment, trace contacts, and verify suspected cases and refer them for
treatment. The project will help to avert a major resurgence of TB incidence.
4.05 The project will also ensure that procurement of drugs is done in a highly cost-
effective manner, and will reinforce continued use of the Essential Drugs List. By makdng
available adequate foreign exchange, it will prevent some of the irrational ad hoc practices
that have occurred in the past. By maldng available drugs for treatment of an esfimated 8
million episodes of 11V-relaed illnesses (apart from TB), the project will avoid critical
shortages of antibiotics that are also needed for many other uses.



42
4.06 Prevention of STDs and HIV will result in large savings in sickness care
expenditures. The drain on society by the loss of life from AIDS is staggering in human,
social and economnic terms. Investment in reducing STDs and HIV will produce savings
and increased economic activity through carefully targeted interventions. For instance a
Nairobi program found that 6,000 to 10,000 new HIV infections a year were averted at a
cost $0.50 per Disability-Adjusted Life Year (DALY) gained. Palliative home care costs
between $30 and $75 per DALY gained. Curing each case of gonorrhea in a core group
saves 120 DALYs, at a cost well below the $1 per DALY gained if the benefits of fewer
secondary cases and the reduced risk of HIV transmission are included. Thus the project
will be an effective means for protecting large numbers of Uganda's labor force against the
disease and their dependents against AIDS-related poverty.
4.07 Project Risks. The principal risk for the project is that the incidence rates of HIV,
STDs or TB, all high already, may increase so quickly as to overwhelm even the
integrated and intensified effort of Uganda's STI program. The only way of averting this
risk is to mount the most inclusive, cost-effective program possible in the shortest time.
The project has been designed to observe the need for speed; its components are simple,
easy to supervise and rapidly implementable, and project processing - identification to
appraisal took less than six months. A secondary risk is that the health services may lack
sufficient experience and capacity to implement an effective STD screening and prevention
program. The project provides for training of health workers in STD diagnosis and
treatment. During supervision missions, technical experts will assess capacity and
determine if any other special training or refresher courses are needed. There is also some
risk that sufficiently broad Government support may not materialize. Public commitment
to STI control is an important aspect of program success, especially in spreading accurate
and timely information. Given the high public awareness about STDs, Government's
forthright treatment of the issue and integrated effort (including IEC) already underway,
this risk is regarded as small. There is a risk that the important activities that the project
complements, notably the public information efforts to persuade people to use condoms
and seek treatment for STDs, may not be carried out according to plans. Government
sensitivity to condom distribution has declined dramatically. While it is unlikely that
government will actively promote condom usage there are no reasons to believe that it
would dissuade their use. Another risk is that the ACP capacity may prove inadequate to
the huge coordinating task facing it. A project coordinator will be appointed and short-
term technical assistance provided as necessary. A final risk is that the behavioral changes
the STI program seeks to promote are likely to prove difficult to achieve. Limited
experience in other countries, however, suggests that the literal life-and-death choice
posed by the proliferation of STIs has proven compelling enough to override even the
inherent resistance to change.
4.08 Environment There are no known negative environmental consequences of the
activities being supported through this project. Consequently, it has been classified as
category C and no environmental assessments will be necessary.



43
V. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENT AND UNDERSTANDINGS
REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN
5.01 Prior to negotiations the following measures which were identified as critical for
successful implementation of the Semally Transmitted Infections Project had been carried
out by the Government:
(a) a project coordinator whose qualificatons and experience are satisfactory to IDA
has been appointed (para 2.37);
(b)   a project steering committee has been established (para 2.39); and
(c)   a draft implementaion manual for all project components has been firnished (para
2.44).
(d) sample tender documents for dtugs, diagnostics and condoms have been furnished
and have been approved by IDA (paras 3.19 and 3.20);
ABGREEMENTS REACE1D
5.02  the production of TV and radio mateials would be undertaken through open
competition (pam 2.09);
5.03  a timetable for airing of TV and Radio materials be submitted to IDA annually by
March 31 each year (para 2.09);
5.04 the annual distict health plans include activities and earmarked funds for drugs to
be distibuted by NGOs and CBOs (para 2.22);
5.05  progress reports and beneficiary assessment data will be consolidated by the ACP
and submitted to IDA every 6 months (pam 2.46);
5.06  a mid-term evaluation ofthe project be held in 1996 and that a project completion
report be prepared by the Government within 6 months of the closing date of the
project (para 2.47);
5.07 work plans be submitted to IDA by March 31 annually (pam 2.48);
5.08 all biomedical research proposals be reviewed by an independent panel (para 2.59);



44
5.09  the government would by submit to IDA, by December 31, 1994, evidence that it
has secured from the donors the equivalent of not less than US$16 million for the
financing of this project (para 3.17); and
5.10 all project accounts will be audited by the Auditor General and that all audited
accounts, together with the auditors report, will be submitted to IDA not later than
six months after the end of each govermnent fiscal year (para 3.28).
CONDMONS OF CREDfT EFFECTIVENESS
5.11  that the MOH would invite all broadcast media entities to submit proposals to air
programs for the first year of the project (para 2.09);
5.12  that the Government contracts suitable organizations to distribute condoms to
NGOs in at least 20 districts (para 2.13);
5.13  that the Government furnishes IDA with a final implementation manual for all
project components (para 2.44).
CONDIONS OF DISBURSEMENT
5.14 that district health teams incl-de, in their submission of the initial annual district
health plan, activities and earmarked finds for drugs to be distributed by NGOs
and CBOs (para 2.22).
RECOMMNDATION
5.15 Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project will
constitute a siitable basis for an IDA credit of US$50 million to the Govemment of
Uganda for a term of 40 years, including a grace period of 10 years, at standard IDA
terms.



45                                          Aax
Page 1 of 6
Sexually Transmitted Infecfions Project
Expendtu  Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(Shs Billion)
Prevef othe
o Sexua      Persoal
Tran__on   lnpaet of    blsltlA
oft}lV       AMS       Develo_ns      Totll
L Investment Cost
A. Equipment                          2.1           -            0.5     2.6
B. Drugs                              9.9        20.8             -    30.8
C. Supplies                          20.6        11.3            4.7    36.6
D. Services                          12.5           -                   12.5
E. Local Trin                         2.9         1.6            0.4     5.0
F. Technical Asstae                     -                        0.5     0.5
HL Vehicles                           2A            -            0.3     2.7
TAllowances                                                      1.1     1.1
J. Research                                                      3.0     3.0
K. Monitring                                                     4.2     4.2
L. Study                                            -           OA       OA
To   Investment Cos                     .5         33.8           15.0    99.3
IL Recurrent Costs
A. Operational Costs                  2.9         0.6            1.1     4.6
Total Recurrent Costs                   2.9         0.6            1.1     4.6
Tota PROJECT COSTS                      53A        34.4           16.1   103.9
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                     40.8        32.1            5.8    78.7



46
Page 2 of6
Sexually Tranited Infections Prject
Expenditure Accouns by Componets - Totals Incduding Contingencies
(US$ Million)
MIUO.
PMeUo          Of te
Of sexJ      Pers_o
Tradsuo    Impatof d         abl_a
of HV        AMDS       Dedo_    Tol
L hwestmn  Costb
A. Equipmt                             1.5                        0.3     1.8
B. Drugs                               7.0        14.7                   21.6
C. Suppies                            14.6         7.9            3.3    25.8
D. Srvices                             85           .              -      8.8
E. Local Trainig                       2.1         1.1            0.3     3.5
F. Techniea As-stance                                             0.4     0.4
H. Vehicles                            1.7          -             0.2     1.9
Allowmces                              -           -             0.8     0.8
. Rseach                                -                        2.1      2.1
K Monitring                                                       3.0     3.0
LS -S                                                             0.3     0.3
Total Investm  Cost                     35.7        23.8           10.7    70.1
IL Reumrd Cos
A. Opaticna Casts                      2.1         0A             0.7     3.2
Toa RecPurrent Cobst                     2.1         0.4            0.7     3.2
TalPROJCTCST                            37.7        242            11.5    73.4
Taxes
FrepExchange                         2A8          22.6            4.2    55.6



Sexuafy Trnsmitted nftios Poject
Pnject Compomeats by Year - Ban Costs
3am.Cost (Sb bis)                                   3m Cadt (US NMEb)
1994    1995    1996  1997         1998    TOWl    1994    1995    1996    1997    1996    TOlW
1. Prevention of Sexua Transmission of HIV                 4.5      8.2     10.9    10.6    10.6    44.9         3.5     6.4      8.5      8.3      8.3    35.0
2. Midgation of the Personal Impact of AIDS                 1.8     4.6      7.4      7.5      7.5    28.8       1.4      3.6      5.3      5.8     5.8    22.4
3. lnsttutional. Development                               2.9      2.6      2.8      2.5      3.0    13.8       2.2      2.t      2.2     2.0      2.3    10.7
Toal BASELINE COSTS                                           9.2     15.5     21.1     20.6    21.0    87.4       7.2    12.1    16.4    16.1    16.4    68.1
Physical Coningecies                                       0.0      0.0      0.1      0.0      0.0      0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      02
Prke Coutlugmdes
nflation
Lcal                                                  o0.i      0.4      0.8      1.1      1.5      3.9      0.1     0.3      0.6      0.8      1.1      3.0
Foreip                                                 o.l      0.4      1.0      1.5      1.9      4.9      0.1     0.3      0.8       1.1     1.5      3.8
Subtotd Inflation                                        0.2      0.9      1.9      2.5      3.4      8.8      0.2      0.7     1.5      2.0      2.6      6.8
Devaluation                                              0.3      0.9      1.8      2.2      2.3      7.5      0.1    40.2    .0.4       -0.5     4.6     -1.8
Subtotal Price Contingencs                                 0.5       1.8     3.6      4.7      5.6    16.2       0.0      0.4      1.1      1.5     2.0      5.0    4P&
Tdal PROJECT COSTS                                            9.7     17.3    24.7    25.4    26.7   103.9         7.2    12.6    17.5       17.6    18.5    73.4
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                           6.4      13.2    19.1      19.7    20.2    78.7       4.8      9.5    13.6    13.6    14.0       55.6



SomW_ Trnmted_cinsPRjc
Prject Compoent by Year                 - _ MCts
Total Inciniln Cout_pgad. (Shr _i.)                  Toal In     nfag Conumen (usS Mmb)
1994     1995    1996     197       1998    Tod    1994     1995    1996    1997          19m     Tola
A. Prevent   of Sexual Trasmission of HIV
investnent Costs                                            4.5      8.8      12.1     12.4     12.8    50.5      3.4      6.4      8.5      8.6      8.8    35.7
Recuret Costs                                               0.3      0.5      0.7      0.7      0.8      2.9      0.2      0.3      0.5      0.5      0.5      2.1
Subtotal Prevetion of Sexual Transmission of HIV              4.8      9.2      12.8    13.1      13.5 *  53.4      3.6      6.7      9.1      9.1      93      37.7
B. Mitiaption of the Personal Impact of AIDS
Investmet Costs                                              1.9     5.1      8.6      9.0      9.2    33.8        1.4     3.7      6.1      6.2      6.4     23.8
Recuffent Costs                                             0.0      0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.6      0.0      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.4
Subtotal Mitigation of the Penonal Impact of AIDS              1.9     5.2       8.7     9.2      9.4    34.4        1.4      3.7      6.2      6.3     6.5    24.2
C. Institutional Development
nvestment Costs                                             2.8      2.8      3.0      2.9      3.5      15.0     2.1       2.0     2.1       2.0     2.4      10.7
Recmrent Costs                                              0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.3       1.1     0.1      0.1       0.2     0.1      0.2      0.7
SubtotalInitutional Development                               3.0      29       3.2      3.1      3.8      16.1      2.3      2.1     2.3      2.2      2.6      11.5
ToW PROJEC  COSTs                                              9.7     173      24.7     25.4     26.7    103.9      7.2     12.6     17.5     17.6     18.5    73.4
Total Investment Costs                                      4.5      8.8      12.1     12.4     12.8    50.5      3.4      6.4      8.5      8.6      8.8    35.7      Go
Total Recoaent Costs                                        0.3      0.5      0.7      0.7      0.8      2.9      0.2      0.3       0.5     0.5      0.5      2.1
to



Sexually Transmitted   ections Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingences
Totbls Indbkg Contlnendes (Shs ilMi)                 Totlas ncbding ContIsendes (USS Mallo)
1994     1995     1996    1997    199       Total    1994    1995    1996        1997     1998    Tobd
1. Prevnticn of Sexual Transmission of HIV              4.8      9.2     12.8    13.1      13.5     53.4      3.6      6.7      9.1      9.1      9.3     37.7
2. Miigation of the Pesonal Impact of AIDS              1.9      5.2      8.7      9.2      9.4     34.4       1.4     3.7      6.2       6.3     6.5      24.2
3. nstituidonal Development                             3.0      2.9      3.2      3.1      3.8     16.1      2.3      2.1      2.3      2.2      2.6      11.5
Totl PROJECT COSTS                                         9.7     17.3     24.7     25.4    26.7    103.9       7.2     12.6     17.5     17.6     18.5     73.4
t 2



Sexually Transmitted Infections Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
Tots Inbiding Cot     _endes (Sh Bllion)            Totals hnludig Contingeas (USS Mmio)
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    Total    1994    1993    1996    1997    1998    Total
L Investment Costs
A. Equipment                     0.5      0.7     0.7      0.3      0.4      2.6     0.4      0.5      0.5      0.2     0.2      1.8
B. Drugs                         1.7      4.6     7.8      8.2      8.4    30.S      1.3      3.4      5.5      5.7     5.8    21.6
C. Supplies                      3.4      6.5     8.5      9.0      9.2    36.6      2.5      4.7      6.0      6.2     6.3    25.8
D. Services                      1.2      2.0     3.0      3.1      3.2    12.5      0.9      1.4      2.1      2.2     2.2      8.8
E. Local Trainng                 0.5      0.8     1.1      1.2      1.3      5.0     0.4      0.6      0.8      0.9     0.9      3.5
F. Tecnical Assistance           0.1      0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1      0.5     0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.4
H. Vehices                       0.3      0.4     0,7      0.7      0.7      2.7     0.2      0.3      0.5      0.5     0.5      1.9
L Allowances                     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.3      1.1     0.1      0.1      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.8
J. Research                      0.5      0.6     0.6      0.6      0.7      3.0     0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4     0.5      2.1
K. Moitoing                      0.8      0.7     0.9      0.8      1.0      4.2     0.6      0.5      0.6      0.6     0.7      3.0
L. Study                         0.1               -       -        0.3      0.4     0.0                         -      0.2      0.3
Total Investment Costs             9.2    16.6    23.7    24.3    25.5    99.3         6.9    12.0    16.8    16.8    17.6    70.1
IL Recurrent Costs
A Operational Costs              0.5      0.7     1.1      1.1      1.2      4.6      0.4     0.5      0.8      0.8     0.8      3.2
Totd Recurrent Cost                0.5      0.7     1.1      1.1      1.2      4.6     0.4      0.5      0.8      0.8     0.8      3.2                                  0
Total PROJECT COSTS                9.7    17.3    24.7    25.4    26.7    103.9         7.2    12.6    17.5    17.6    18.5    73.4
"Ut



51
Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
THE DISEASE OF AIDS '
1.    HIV belongs to a family of viruses called retroviruses, which are composed of the
genetic material RNA (ribonucleic acid) and have tumor-causing potential (Johnson and
Vieira, 1987). FHV is infectious, transmitted by means of semen, vaginal fluid, or blood
(WHO, 1988), usually during sexual contact or in blood transfusions. As a systemic
infection, HIV mainly attacks and destroys white blood cells, especially T helper
lymphocytes, in the blood and lymph system that cause an inability to resist infection.
There are two reported strains of the virus. HIVI is the most common strain and
serological evidence is found in those who acquire the disease. A second less prevalent
strain, HIV2, is endemic in West Africa, and present in Europe, and has been found in
Brazil. HIV2 is less pathogenic2 than HIVI. The modes of transmissions are thought to
be the same but to date all the reported cases of HIV2 involve sexual transmission.
2.    The incubation period varies from carrier to carrier. It is believed that the
symptoms of AIDS can surface anytime, normally from one year to ten or more years after
initial infection, but some have survived for as many as 20 years. The duration and
intensity of infectiousness is also unknown; data have shown, however, that an HIV
carrier can transmit the virus to others shortly after becoming infected and long before the
onset of AIDS proper (Family Health International 1987). The existence of such
"asymptomatic transmitters", many of whom may not be aware that they are even infected
with HIV, makes the disease particularly difficult to control and interventions hard to
target.
3.    The body's initial response to HIV infection is to produce antibodies to the virus.
However, the antibodies are ineffectual because they do not actually combat the virus but
merely mark its presence (San Francisco, AIDS Foundation, 1986, Glossary). The early
symptoms of HIV infection may include a short-term illness, such as glandular fever, after
2-8 weeks. A common later effect is persistently enlarged lymph glands (PGL), which
generally lasts three months or longer and may occur in conjunction with diarrhea, weight
loss, fever, night swats, fatigue and opportunistic infections (e.g. toxoplasmosis,
cytomegalovirus and herpes simples virus).
4.    About 5-10 percent of patients with PGL revert to an asymptomatic state for an
indefinite period of time, but in most cases PGL is followed by the AIDS related complex
(ARC) and then AIDS. In "full blown" AIDS the infected person contracts and later dies
from opportunistic infections that a normally functioning immune system would repel.
With the difficulty in identifying the symptoms, signs and infections associated with AIDS,
WHO has developed a provisional clinical diagnostic profile for AIDS that is particularly
IThis annex has been reprinted from the SAR for the Brazil A1DS & STD Control Project,
courtsy of LA1HR.
2Deflned as causng or capable of causmng disease.



52
Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
relevant where diagnostic resources are limited: severe weight loss, chronic diarrhea, and
prolonged fever. The following are minor signs: persistent cough, dermatitis, herpes,
zoster, candidiasis in the respiratory tract, mouth and/or vagina, herpes simplex infection
and PGL. In the absence of other known causes of immunosuppression, such as cancer or
malnutrition, AIDS is defined by the existence of at least two of the above major signs in
conjunction with at least one minor sign.
Modes of Transmission
5.    H1V transmission can occur several ways. It is primarily transmitted during sexual
contact, perinatally (from pregnant mother to the fetus) and parenterally (through blood
transfusions and use of contaminated needles and syringes).
6.    Sexual transmission: Several forms of sexual transmission are observed. The
FHV virus can in principal be transmitted through either anal or vaginal intercourse, and it
is widely believed, (through less well documented) that the virus might be orally
transmittable (Population Reports, 1986). Behavioral and cultural factors appear to play a
role in the relevance of the kinds of intercourse.
7.    Parenteral transmission: The predominant mode of parenteral transmission in
the West is intravenous drug use where needles and syringes are shared. Transmission due
to intravenous drug use (IVDU's) is rare in most LDCs, but may be growing due to the
reuse of contaminated needles and syringes.
8.    Blood transfusions: In the US, Europe and many other countries, early cases of
HIV were traceable to transfusions of contaminated blood. The implementation of
screening techniques for H1V antibodies have arrested this source of spread in
industrialized countries as well as in Uganda.
9.    Perinatal Transmission: HIV transmission occurs perinatally from the pregnant
mother to fetus. It is esfimated that almost 10% of H1fV infections are due to perinatal
transmissions in Tanzania (Ngaly 1990). The probability of perinatal transmission cannot
be estimated with certainty as all newborns carry the mother's antibodies at birth. As the
uninfected baby grows older, the maternal antibody levels decrease, and HIV antibody
tests will gradually show negative results.
10.   Rates of vertical transmission are estimated to be around 25-50% (Ryder et al
1989) with mothers in advanced stages of disease showing higher transmission rates3.
With the increasing trend towards heterosexual transmission in Latin America and Africa,
the incidence of perinatal transmission is likely to grow (Over and Piot, 1991).
3Chin and Sonnberg esimate the raTe of perinaal tansission rnges from 12 - 39°%, while
Lallemont uses estimates of 25 - 50%.



53
Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Relative Efficiency of Transmission Modes
11. Risk factors for HIV infection are similar to those for sexually transmitted diseases
and include a high number of sex partners, unprotected sex with an infected person,
presence of STDs, history of contact with commercial sex workers (CSW) or being a
CSW. Sexual transmissions of HIV may be facilitated by the presence of other STDs,
which partly explains the varying intensity of the HIV epidemic globally.
12.   The relative efficiency of the modes of transmission vary a great deal. Co-factors,
such as the increased frequency of contacts, the use of condoms, presence of sexually
transmitted diseases can exacerbate or retard the "efficiency" of transmission, thereby
influencing the efficiency of transmission and raising the possibility of getting the HIV
infection. Genital ulcers due to Sexually Transmitted Diseases from syphilis, gonorrhea or
chancroid increase the efficiency of transmission 5-10 times (Bjorkman 1991, Pepin 1989).
13.   Table A.2 summarizes the relative efficiency of alternative modes of tansmission.
Transfused infected blood and its products are considered the most efficient rnsmitter of
ILV approaching a 100% probability (Bulatao 1990). The probability of perinatal
transmission is difficult to estimate as all infants born of HIV infected mothers will show
antibodies against the HIV virus for the first 6-12 months. If a pregnant woman is
infected with HIV, studies indicate that the probability that her child will be born with H1V
ranges from 12-50%. Mothers with more acute signs and symptoms of IRV demonstrate
higher rates of transmission to their chilcdhri4.4 Approximately a quarter to half of the
infected infants may become severely ill in their first year; others may develop AIDS later
on in their lives (WHO 1988).
4WHO, 1988. Chin and Sonnenberg estimate the probability of perinatal transmission ranges
around 12 - 39%, (1991). Over and Piot use estimates of 25 - 50/o, citing Laflemont (1989).



54
Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
Table A.2: RELATIVE EFFICEENCY OF TRANSNISSION MODES                       l
Modes          Transmitter    Infectivity Risk  Risk (Multiple   Author, Date
(Single        Encounter)     and Location
Encounter).
Sexual:        HIV +          0.2%           66.7%          Hearst and
Heterosexual   individual with               500 encounters  Hully
viginal        condom
HIV+           0.2%           9.1% 500       Health and
individual                    encounters     Hully, 1988
HIV +                         53.6%          Luzi et all
individual                                   1988, Italian
study
Male patients                 71.4%          Redfield at al.,
with AID or                                  1985,
ARC                                          Washington
D.C. based
.              ~~~~~study
HIV + male                    9.5%           Kreiss et al.,
hemophiliacs                                 1985; San
Francisco
based study
Sexual: Homo-  HIV + males                   10.2%          Grant et al.,
sexual (anal)                                               1987;
intercourse
Perinatal      HIV + mothers  12-50%                        WHO, 1988,
estimate
Transfusions of HIV + blood    66.1%                        Ward et al.,
Blood and      donors         89%                            1987 Mosley et
products                                                    al., 1987
IV Drug Use    Parenteral     HIV + patients  0.9%/O        CDC,
exposure                                     supplement,
(needle stick                                1987
einjuries) a 
Source: Lewis, M . et aL. 1989



55
Annex 3
Page 1 of 6
Behavioral factors of the HIVAIDS epidemic in Uganda
Uganda is one of the countries most severely affected by the AIDS epidemic. Its
vulnerability to AIDS has been caused by a large number of different factors, including past wars
and civil unrest in various parts of the country causing changes in partrner relation patterns and
increased mobility. Many prevention activities have taken place, probably causing significant
impact, though solid evidence of large scale behavioural change is not available to date. However
evaluation studies on smaller intervention projects in Uganda and around the world do indicate
that behaviour change is possible provided interventions are specific and deal with norms, values
and social factors, while at the same time provides the means to change, including knowledge and
condoms.
Figure 1: Casual partners during the last 12 month (1)
Casual partners
40
3U 0
20     I  EO     E 
16-  20-  25-  40-  50
19  24  39  49   +
age
The study presented in Figure 1 above was done in 1989 and that there are some recent
anecdotal reports on behavior change. However, despite EC campaigns a significant proportion
of both men and women. especially in the younger age groups, continue to have unprotected sex
with multiple partners (2).



56
Annex 3
Page 2 of 6
Figure 2: Knowledge and use of condoms (1)
KnomvJdge and wue of condoms
70
b100
15-19  2D24  2549  4049  OD +
Promotion and instruction for condom use has been part of Information,
Education and Communication (IEC) interventions. However condoms have not, in general, been
available in sufficient numbers. The foliowing table presents the current availability of condoms in
the country.
1991              1992                1993
Armtrades                    497,500           2,100,000          2,100,000
USAID                       3,336,000          5,854,000         11,400,000
IPPF                         600,000            730,000
GPA/ACP                            0           3,600,000          4,636,800
GTZ                         1,000,000           260,000            260,000
TOTAL                       5,433,500         12,544,000         18,396 800
Therefore, although the knowledge of condoms may have increased since the study (figure
2) was done, there is no reason to believe that the use of condoms has generally increased to a
degree having much impact on the evolution of the epidemic, with the exception of limited
geographical areas or limited population groups targeted by specific interventions (4).
Only 10% of people in a recent study defined "abstinence from sex" as total avoidance
from physical contact; other definitions given included "one-off encounters" and coitus interruptus
[14]. These differences in perceptions may cause problems both in the AIDS education and in
validity of evaluations of educational interventions.
STD care seeking behaviours
A study regarding STD-treatment seekdng behaviour indicated that only 41% of those
reporting genital ulcer sought help from the formal health sector, 30% used the informal sector,
and 29% took no action. The same study shows an uneven gender distribution of genital ulcer and



57
Ann  3
Page 3 of 6
observed that 8 of 17 women with genital ulcer had come to the clinic for a different complaint
thus suggesting that many women do not recognize this condition as a problemb. [14] Undess
internentions are intensified and reach a more comprehensive geographical coverage, it is
expected that the spread of HIV will continue unchanged in the period to come.
Cbildren and youth.
Youth are especially vulnerable to HIV infection in more than one way. They start sexual
activities without much knowledge about, risks of infection or how to protect themselves. They
are often in an experimental phase with frequent casual partners and they are often exposed to
explo.tation by adults (2).
Figure 3: Age of first sexual intercourse (1)
Percentage ofsexually acdive men and vmen
go
70
Ate
10[ I~
|*Mob    ED Fenel 
The study presented in the figure above indicates that young people start sexual activities
in an early age. Other studies indicate that especially young girls have sexual relations with older
men, such as their teachers, relatives, neighbours and others, and that this is somewhat socially
accepted (4). The early start of sexual activities has not been matched by a similar early start of
sex education and in particular AIDS education in the schools. Even if sex/AIDS education were
appropriately addressed in the schools, it would not reach a gieat proportion of the young people.
In the age group 5 to 14 years only 52% of the chidren attend school and and in the age group 15
to 19 years this figure is 13% (5). The National Operational Plan identifies children and youth in
and out of school as the main priority of the programme both as individuals and in a social and
cultural context (6).



58
Annex 3
Page 4 of 6
Gender issues, the special situation and needs of women:
For a vatiety of socio-economic and biological reasons, womnen in Uganda as elsewhere
have been identified to be especially vulnerable to HIV infection. These include:
i) womens social, cultural and economical dependency on men for money and other
necessities of life (7).
ii) the low literacy rate; (45% above 10 years; 39°/o above 20 years )(8).
iii) women often have asymptomatic genital ulcer disease, or do not seek early treatment
for such as they do not recognize the symptoms as manifestations of STD. A study 1991 found
among pregnant women in Kampala 9.2% with clamydia and 7.1% with syphilis. For women
serving alcohol the figures were respectively 10.8% and 29.2% (9). Lack ofjob skills, capital or
credit means that sexuality may be viewea as a viable economic strategy by women who are
single, divorced, widows, poor or otherwise without sufficient income (10). Through womens
sexual behaviour is controlied by men/husbands, they do not control the behaviour of their
partners (11). Results from a cohort study show a two fold increase in risk of infection in
divorced/separated participants when compared with those who are married. The most common
reasons for marital instabiity were sexual dissatisfiation, infertility particularly of the woman,
alcoholism and mobility. [14]
Figure 4: Commercial sex during the last 12 month (1)
Commercial Sex
35
30
25
20
'15
*w 10
0
15-19    20-24    26-39    40-49    50 +
Age
U Male  C3 Female
The term commercial vex refers to relationship involving the exchange of money, gifts or
favours, and thus expresses something more general, as compared to what is normally
wuderstood by the term prostitution).



59
Annex 3
Page 5 of 6
Adolescent girls turn to sex to provide cash to buy "fancy goods" which their parents will
not provide, and some women look to sex to provide income for their children. [14] Also
women in formal employ...ent, e.g. housegirls, office workers, etc are often under pressure to
offer sexual favours to their employers (6). The National Operational Plan idenifies two groups
of women to be given special attention, i.e: rural women; and occupationally pre-disposed and
exposed women, the latter including barmaids, prostitutes, as well as clerical workers and
housegirls (6).
Situations and Sites to contract STDs:
As a result of the norms, values, practices and relations between the genders there exist a
variety of situations and sites with increased risk of sexual transmission of HIV infection,
including everyday events, such as alcohol drinking, visits to bars, discos, social functions, such as
funeral rites, weddings, twin ceremonies, night dances, etc.(12, 14). In addition to these common
situations where free sexual relations are the accepted norms culturally, there are a number of
special situations and sites with increased risk, such as: main road trading centres; truck stops
(13); migrant work situations; some workplaces, such as offices, factories; closed places such as
prisons, police and army camps (6); makeshift markets and overnight travel situations (7).
A study in a town along the Transafiican highway (overall prevalence rate 40%) indicate
the following: I-UV infection is associated with the number of reported lifetime partners with the
highest prevalence rate (54%) for those reporting three lifetime partners. Those leaving the
county at least once per week were more likely to be seropositive than those travelling less often
(57% vs 399%). Infection rates are lower in the semi-rural part of the town than in the more
central areas (25% vs 43%). Those with a recent history of genital ulcer were more likely to be
seropositive than those without (62% vs 36%). Of the 154 selected households 98 (65%) had at
least one infected adult. These results suggest that although seroprevalence rates in this township
are very high important risk factors can be identified. The results also suggest that people who
live in a community with a high HIV seroprevalence are at a high risk of infection even when they
have only a small number of sexual partners. [14]
Unlike most other East African countries there has been a remarkably limited number of
interventions in Uganda addressing population groups or sites with high level of sexual activity
(6). In addition to addressing community based behaviours, the National Operational Plan
identifies a number of specific situations and sites to be addressed with promotion of safer sexual
behaviours and provision of condoms (6).



60
Page 6 of 6
Reference.
(1) Ankrah/E.M:AIDS in Uganda: Analysis of the social dimensions of the epidemic: National
Survey, Makerere, Uganda 1989.
(2) AMREF:An operational study relating to sexuality and AIDS prevention among primary
school students in Kabale, 1993.
(3) Mission estmates
(4) Ankrah E.M and Ouma S:AIDS in Uganda: report of a pretest. Social and behavioural
dimensions of the epidemic, ACP 1988.
(5) Mlnistiy of Finan,e & Economic Planning: Population and housing census 1991
(6) Uganda AIDS Commssion: National Operational Plan 1994 -98
(7) Nakuti, J:If we fear AIDS what will we eat? Women's struggles for economic independence in
Uganda, 1992.
(8) World Bank: Uganda growing out of poverty. World Bank Uganda 1993.
(9) WHOWI3: Rapid assesment of SID, 1991.
(10) Barnett, T.Blakie, P. & Abbo, C.: Community coping mechanism in the face of exceptional
demographic change. Excutive smmay of final report to theODA, 1990.
(11) Magezi, M.:Against a sea of troubles; AIDS control in Uganda, 1991.
(12) Kabunga E. et al.: Obstacles to change in sexual behaviour of men and women; the role of
prejudice and traditional attitudes, MRC/MRPA 1992.
(13) Kyambadde, 1: Focus group study among government drivers, ACP 1993.
(14) MRC/ODA/UVRI Programme: Annual Report 1992



61
Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
HIV/AIDS Data, Projections and Impact.
AIDS appeared in Uganda from beginning of the 1980s and was first known as
"Slim" disease. It was not before 1986 after the HIV tests became available that the first
cases of AIDS were confirmed in the country. Up to June 1993 41,000 cases of adult and
pediatric AIDS cases had been reported to the Ministry of Health [1]. This, however,
represents only a fraction of the estimated 300,000 AIDS cases which have occurred in
the country since start of the epidemic [2]. The great discrepancy between the number of
reported cases and the estimated number may have a variety of different explanations,
ranging from AIDS cases not being presented at health facilities to ineffective reporting
systems, but may also relate to the fact that a number of patients die before they develop
symptoms fulfilling the AIDS case definition. A cohort study in Masaka district found a
mortality rate among HIV positive adults of 11.6% per year and that approximately half of
those who died in a given period were free of any major symptoms included in the clinical
definition of AIDS on the last medical examination prior to death and progressed within
six month from asymptomatic infection to death [3].
Uganda is one of the few countries in the world where a large scale HIV
serosurvey has been conducted. A national serosurvey was undertaken in 1987/88. Based
on the results it was estimated that approximately 800,000 Ugandans were infected with
HIV at that time (4]. Since that time a large number of smaller surveys addressing specific
geographical areas or population groups have taken place. The ACP in the Ministry of
Health monitors trends in the epidemic through a sentinel surveillance system. Blood
drawn from pregnant women attending selected antenatal clinics is tested annually. Results
from sites where information is available from three or more years are given in Table 1
below.
Table 1: HIV infection rates (/); antenatal clinic attendees [1I
Site              1989       1990       1991       1992        1993
Nsambya                    24.5       25.0       27.8       29.5        30.1
Rub~jag-                                         27.3       29.4        24.4
Mbarara        _           21.8       23.8       24.5       30.2        18.1
Jinia                      24.9       15.8       22.0       19.9        21.8
Terere                        -        4.1       12.8       13.2        10.4
Mbale                       3.3       11.0       12.0       14.8         9.5
Nutelere                      -4.1                5.6          -6.
The data in Table 1 suggests that the increase in prevalence rates is levelling of, i.e
that the incidence of death is coming closer to the incidence of infection. The ACP
estimates using the WHO/GPA EPI-model, the current and future level of infection are
presented in Table 2.



62
Amex 4
Page 2 of 5
Table 2: HIV/AIDS estimates and projections [2]
1993                      1998
Currently living          Projected living
With HIV and AIDS         with 1{V and AIDS
Age/gender                 HIV          AIDS          HIV         AIDS
0 - 14 years          116,000       37,000       221,000       60,000
15 - 19 years         132,000       6,000        160,000        9,000
20 - 49 women          571,000       56,000       694,000       83,000
20 - 49 men           529,000        52,000       642,000       78,000
50+                    168,000       14,000      204,000        21,000
Total                  1,516,000     165,000      1 920,000     251 000
Maternal orphans<1 5 yrs  300,000                 886,000
Cumulative death 1993 - 98
- Adults               565,000
- Children            250,000
With unchanged intervention efforts the EPI-Model estimates that more than
670,000 new adult infections will occur during the next five years. Most of these will
occur in young people and among these in young women. Age- and sex specific
seroprevalence rates show typically a distribution with highest rates in females aged 15-34
and in males aged 25-34. Females aged 13-21 years are at much higher risk than males of
the same age. In those aged 25 years or more women are at a lower risk than men. A
cohort study in Masaka shows in that rural area the persons most at risk of HIV infection
are young married women who had presumably recently commenced sexual activity [3].
The overall finding therefore are in line with a study done in Rakai in 1989, (Table 3).
Table 3: HIV prevalence (°) in Rakai trading centres and rural [5]
Age group             13-19      20-29     30-39     40-49      50-59
Trading centres:
Male                          3        43        30         29           8
Female                      35         52        35         22          25
Rural:
Male                          2        19         19        10           7
Female                      11         25         10        18           9
As a consequence of the infections in women of the reproductive agegroups the
EPI-Model estimates that almost 300,000 new pediatric HIV infections will occur during
the next five years.



63
Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
Health and social impact for individuals and communities.
The cohort study cited above found that adolescents and young adults who are
infected with HIV have a risk of dying which is about 70 times the risk in non-infected.
Further, more than 50% of all adult deaths and over 80% of deaths in young adults are
HIV associated. The data suggest that the progression to death in IHlV-infected subjects
of the studied population is extremely rapid as over a two year period more than 23% of
all infected participants died [3].
In Rakai 45% of the guardians of children are over 50 years, 25% are over 60
years. In Hoima 35% of the guardians are above 50 years. In Rakai 31% of orphans are
under care of elderly grandparents - Luwero and Hoima 25% [6]. Care for orphans, the
disabled and infimn, as well as the elderly has been compromised and weakened in recent
years. Major factors include the increasing numbers of orphans, the loss of productive age
adults, the chronic nature of HIV/AIDS-related illnesses and a difficult economic
environment [7]. Households budgets are affected directly through increased expenses for
caring for the sick. Average cost per episode of illness is between Shs 2,000 and Shs
40,000 for both traditional and formal health care [8]. In addition AIDS patients work
less during episodes of illness. Death of bread winner will lower household incomes and
raise numbers of households living in poverty. Expensive time and resources are spent
caring for patients and for burials and mournings [9].
The following example illustrates the overstretching of the traditional structures
for care and support: 30 AIDS patients were visited and assisted on a regular basis over a
period of six month by a counsellor and, when necessary, a medical doctor. Most patients
received care from close relatives. One woman died unattended since her husband, who
took care of her, had been admitted himself to hospital. Seventeen of the patients died
within the period and in seven of these cases other relatives were asked to help with care
but refused on the grounds of poverty or other responsibilities. In all but one of these
cases extended families did provide assistance for the funeral. Reports on three of the
deaths gave neglect as contributing to the death and in one case poverty [3].
Economic consequences for society.
Studies on the economic impact on society are less conclusive. But there are
indications of decrease in land under cultivation in hard hit areas [10]. Shift to less labour
intensive crops, and farmers loosing interest and morale to make long term plans and
investments [11]. Diversion from cash crop production may lead to reduction in foreign
exchange income for Uganda, as 95% of export earnings come from agriculture [12].
HIV prevalence among hard to replace occupational groups tends to be higer than
the average. A study among blood donors in Zambia showed prevalences among
professionals of 15 to 25% against the average of all donors of 15% [13]. In seme



64
Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
projections, it seems that in a country where the AIDS epidemic has reached the
magnitude it has in Uganda, in order to have one person aged 50 surviving from the
current cohort receiving education and training, 17 wifl have to be trained now [14].
Instead of the urban labour force growing from 400,000 in 1990 to 1.1 million by 2010, it
may only reach 740,000 due to death of workers between ages 35-50 years [15].
The sector most directly and immediately affected by the AIDS epidemic is the
health sector. This sector is affected both by loosing hard to replace manpower [16] and
by a dramatic increase in demand for services and drugs.
Table 4: Capacity versus need
______________________________        _ :1994                                  1998
Health system capacity
Hospitals                                                 86                    86?
Health Centres                                           254                   254?
Clinics/dispensaries                                     777                   777?
Hospital beds                                         13,817                13,817?
Total bed-days, available                          4,974,000             4,974,000?
Population and needs
Adult hospital bed-days required1                  7,168,000             10,696,000
Pediatric hospital bed-days required1              1,406,000              2,280,000
Population within 10 km from health unit
I_  _ _ . . . _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ , , , , _ _             57 %                   570/o
1): If all AIDS cases are provided with the hospital in-patient care as indicated in World Bank study in Tarznia, i.e
56 and 38 days for adults and pediatric cases respectively [171.
Reference:
(1] ACP/MOH: HIV/AIDS Surveillance report, June 1993.
[2] Uganda AIDS Commission: National Operational Plan 1994 -98
(3] MRC/ODA/UVRI Programme: Annual Report 1992
[4] ACP/MOH: National Serosurvey, 1987/88
(51 Musagara et al: Seroprevalence of HIV-I in Rakai district, Uganda', Poster at the IVth
International Conference on AIDS and Associated Cancers in Africa, 1989.



65
Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
[6] Dunn, A et at: Enumeration and needs ass.ssment of orphans in Uganda; survey report
1991 Social work Department.
[7] Seeley,J. et al.: The extended family support for people with AIDS in a rural
population of South-Western Uganda; a safety net with holes?
[8] Bagenda, D. & Barton, T.: Family and household spending patterns for Health Care,
1993.
[9] Seldmpi D.K.: Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) and occupational
health in Uganda, 1988.
[10] Unicef: Few phase of Unicef support for AIDS control in Uganda, smmary
document. 1992.
[11] Unicef: A situation analysis of women in Uganda: Background paper for the Unicef
Uganda country programme mid-term review, 1993.
[12] Armstrong & Ainsworth: Aide memoire: Mission on the socio-economic impact of
AIDS in Uganda, World Bank 1990.
[13] NAP Zambia: Analysis of blood donor data, 1992.
[14] Bamett, T. & Blaikie, P.: AIDS in Africa; its present and future impact, 1992.
[15] Stover et al.: Impact of AIDS in Uganda and the effects of iterventions to control its
spread, 1990.
[16] Fact finding Team: Social consequences of AIDS, report 1989.
[17] World Bank: Tanzania; AIDS Assesment and Planning Study, World Bank 1991.



66
Annex 5
Page I of 6
NATURE, INCIDENCE AND TREATMENT OF SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED
DISEASES
1.    Although historically considered relatively unimportant sets of diseases, sexually
transmitted diseases (STDs) have become of paramount importance due to the emergence
of AIDS (a type of STD) and their interconnection with HIV transmission and its
symptom severity.
2.    STD are now the most common group of notifiable infectious diseases in most
countries. Over 20 pathogens are known to be spread by sexual contact. Over the last 40
years the burden associated with traditional venereal diseases like syphilis, gonorrhea and
chancroid has declined, particularly in industrial countries, but they have been amply
replaced by both bacterial and viral syndromes including HIV. These agents are difficult
to identify and treat and can cause serious complications resulting in chronic ill-health and
even death. Typically, infections in men cause mild to severe genital or urinary tract
problems and infertility can result. The consequences for women are far more severe.
They include adverse outcomes of pregnancy for mothers and newborns; infections in
newborns and infaints like ophthalmia and chlamydial pneumonia; pelvic inflammatory
disease; infertility; ectopic pregnancy; and cancers of the cervix. Table C. 1 provides the
outcomes of infection with STDs.
3.    STDs are both a risk factor and a proxy for HIV infection. STDs are biologic
evidence of unprotected sex, which is a key risk factor for HIV. Many STDs have acute
clinical manifestations, which make them more likely to be seen, diagnosed and reported
than HIV. However, there are several important caveats, namely: (1) there are many
different STDs, and diagnosis is based on clinical and laboratory methods that differ
widely in complexity and availability; (2) many STDs areasymptomatic, particularly in
women, and are unlikely to be detected because infected women don't seek diagnosis or
treatment and (3) the infiastructure for diagnosing and managing STDs is poorly
developed in most developing countries.
Epidemiology:
4.    A critical analysis of the relationship between HIV and STDs is complicated by the
fact that H1V itself is an STD (Laga 1992). It is believed that STDs influence the natural
history of HRV. For example, HIV could conceivably give rise to atypical presentation of
other STDs, including larger, more numerous and more persistent lesions, or accelerate its
progression towards clinical symptoms. STDs could influence diagnosis or patient's
response to treatment of other STDs, resulting in more frequent or more rapid
complications, aberrant laboratory test results, and inadequate response to standard
therapy (Mertens et al., 1990). HIV infection is thought to increase the susceptibility to
other STDs. Research on the relationship with HIV and other STDs has revealed that
STDs may enhance the sexal transmission of HIV by increasing the susceptibility in HIV-
negative persons and increasing infectivity HIV-positive persons. This may partly explain
the differing rates of spread of HIV around the world.



67
Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
Table C. 1: MAJOR STD MICROBIAL AGENTS AND THE CONDITIONS THEY
PRODUCE
Agent              Acute Disease       Pregnancy-          Chronic conditions
Associated
l_______________    Condition
Neisseria gonorrhea  Urethritis Cervicitis  Prematurity Septic  Infertility Ectopic
Salpingitis        abortion            pregnancy
Ophthalmia
Postpartum
endometritis
Chlamydia          Urethritis Cervicitis  Ophthalmia      Infertility Ectopic
trachomatis        Salpingitis         Pneumonia           pregnancy
Postpartum
endometritis
Treponema          Primaty and         Spontaneous         Neurosyphilis
pallidum           secondary syphilis   abortion Stillbirth    Cardiovascular
Congenital syphilis  syphilis Gumma
Haemophilus        Genital ulcer       None known          Inpotence
ducreyi
HIV                Mononucleosis       Prematurity         AIDS
syndrome           Stillbirth Perinatal
RHV                    __l
HPV                Genital warts       Laryngeal           Genital cancer
papilomatosis
HSV-2              Genital ulcer       Neonatal HSV        Genital Cancer
Prematurity                           l
HBV                Acute hepatitis     Perinatal HBV       Chronic hepatitis
Cirrhosis Heptoma
Vasculitis
Source: Holmes 1992
5.    Studies from developing countries confirm the endemicity (native to a particular
locality, region or country) of STDs1. The table below looks at the prevalence of various
STDs. Gonorrhea is believed to be the most common preventable cause of Pelvic
Inflammatory Disease (PID) and total infertility worldwide. Prevalent in most Western
countries, gonorrhea is hyperendemic in most parts of central Africa (Wasserheit and
Dixon-Mueller, 1991).
'A study in two Egyptian rural villages conSrm endemicity of STDs. This study found that half
of o09 non-pregnant women between the ages of 20-60 had reproductive tract infections. A study
conducted in Mahaashtra, India of 650 rural women revealed that 92% of them had at least one sexual or
gynecological disease, with an average of 3.6 per women (Source Washington Post 7-7-92).



68
Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
6.    The correlates of STID incidence include a large number of sex partners, a history
of STDs, urban residence, being single and between the ages of 15 and 44. The highest
rates of STlDs are found in urban women between the ages of 15 - 35 (Over M, and Piot
P. 1992).
Table C.2: PREVALENCE OF SELECTED STDs IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
Infection                Location                 Prevalence
Gonorrhea                Africa                   10%
l __________________   Latin  America             6%
Chlamydia                Africa           _        7%
Asia                     8%
Trichomoniasis           Africa                    19%
__________________     _ .Asia                     11%
Note: Population includes family planning clients, gynecology patients, prenatal clinic
patients, women giving birth in clinical settings and community based populations.
Studies on female populations presenting specifically with PID or puperal sepsis and
clients with STDs have been excluded from this survey.
Source: Wasserheit, 1989
7.    The impact of HIV on the epidemiology of GUD (Genital Ulcer Disease) is
distressing. If GUD facilitates the transmission of HIV, and HIV + persons are more
likely to have GUDs (associated with treatment failures due to antibiotic resistant strains),
then these two infections are mutually reinforcing their spread, resulting in an increased
prevalence of HIV and GUD in the community.
Transmission:
8.    STDs are highly communicable and can be transmitted perinatatty, through sexual
contact or intravenous drug use. Commercial sex workers are cited as being the source of
STDs in 20% of identified cases in Europe and North America (D'Costa 1978) and in 80%
of the cases in the Third World (Rajan 1978). They remain a reservoir for sustaining the
infection in the general population everywhere.
9.    Biologically, the transmission of several STDs is more efficient from men to
women and the consequences for women are more serious. For example, a man's risk of
acquiring gonorrhea from an infected woman during a single heterosexual encounter is
approximately 20 - 25%. A woman in similar circumstances carries a 50% risk of
acquiring gonorrhea from an infected male (Hatcher et al).



69
Annex S
Page 4 of 6
10.   N. gonorrhea and C. trachomatis infection in the mother can be perinatally
transm: led to children, and is manifested as conjunctivitis and respiratory disease: both
are treatable however. The consequences of syphilis are well documented and cause
several handicaps in 25 - 75% of exposed infants (Ingraham, 1951).
Risk:
11.   As with AIDS, STDs are sexually transmitted through genital mucosal contact.
The presence of open ulcerative lesions increases the probability of transmission of HIV 3-
10 times (Piot et al, 1988; and Pepin et al 1988). Genital ulceration such as chancroid,
syphilis and herpes increase the risk of HIV infection. Trichomonal, chlamydia and
gonococcal infections in women also increase the risk of HIV transmission. Table C.3
summarizes studies conducted in several locations, demonstrating that the presence of
STDs enhances the risk of HIV transmission.
Table C. 3: SELECTED PROSPECTIVE STUDIES ON ST`Ds AS RISK FACTORS
FOR HIV TRANSMISSION
Author, Date and    Population Studied   STD            Risk of IIV
Location                                                Transmission
Cameron, 1989     Heterosexual clients Genital Ulcer    4.7
Kenya              of CSWs           Disease (GUD)
mainly chancroid
Darrow, 1987,     Homosexual men    Syphilis            1.5 - 2.2
United States                                _    _
Kingsely, 1990     Homosexual men    Herpes 2
United States
Holmberg, 1988    Homosexual men    Herpes 2            3.5
United States
Laga, 1990, Zaire   Female CSWs      GUD, Gonorrhea    3.5
Chlamydia         3.2
infections
Trichomoniasis    2.7
Plummer, 1991,     Female CSWs       GUD                3.9
Kenya                                Chlamydia infection  7.3
Source: Holmes,
1992
12. Risk factors for STDs are the same as those for HIV and depend on the cultural
and behavior patterns existing in any given country. Although women are thought to be at
low risk for STDs in many countries, recent evidence shows that India and Africa have a
surprisingly high prevalence of STDs (Bang 1989). In the absence of effective disease
control programs, chlamydia and syphilis occurs 10 - 100 times as much. In addition,
gonorrhea is often asymptomatic and women are unaware that diagnosis and treatment are
required. Women normally become infected at an earlier age than men (Holmes, 1992).



70
Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
Surveillance:
13.   Because of the aforementioned circumstances, data on STD incidence is lacking in
most LDCs. Surveillance for many STDs may therefore be more effectively performed
through sentinel surveillance rather than through routine passive surveillance. For
example, surveillance of gonococcal antibiotic resistance through sampling of strains from
patients seen at selected STD clinics may be sufficient to guide diagnosis and therapy for
gonorrhea patients.
14.   Treatment limits not only transmissions but contraction of other STDs including
AIDS. In spite of this benefit, few countries have accorded the surveillance, prevention or
control of STDs a high priority.
References
Bang k An approach to the gynecological problems of rural women: epidemiological
study and intervention through primary health care. First Annual Meeting.
communit Epidemi ogylHealth Management Network Kon Kaen, Thailand,
February 1-4, 1988.
D'Costa, LJ., Plummer, FA., et al. "Prostitutes are a major reservoir of sexually
transmitted diseases in Nairobi, Kenya". Sexmaly Transmitted Diseases. 1985,
12:64-7.
Faundes A, and Tanaka AC. Reproductive Tract Infections in Brazil: Solutions in a
difficult economic climate", in Reproductive Tract Infection: Global Impact and
Priorities for Womens Reproductive Health, edited by Germain et al Plenum Press,
New York 1992.
Hatcher, RA. et al. "Contraceptive Technology: International Edition", Atlanta: Printed
Matter, 1989, p96.
Hethcote, HH. and Yorke JA. Gonorrhea Transmission Dynamics and Control, Lecture
Notes in Biomathematics 1984, No. 56, New York: Springer-Verlag.
Holmes K, Reproductive Tract Infections: Global Impact and Priorities for Women's
Reproductive Health edited by Germain et al Plenum Press, New York 1992.
Inagraham, NR. "The value of penicillin alone in the prevention and treatment of
congenital syphilis" Acta Dermatol Vernereol 1951; 31: (S24):60-88.
Laga M. "Human Immunodeficiency Virus Infection Prevention: The need for
complementaDy SID control" in Reproductive Tract Infections: Global Inpact and
Priorities for Women's Reproductive Health, edited by Germain et al Plenum Press,
New York 1990.



71
Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
Mertens TE, Hayes RJ, Smith PG. Epidemiological methods to study the interaction
between HIV infection and other sexually transmitted diseases. AIDS 1990; 4:57-
65.
Mueller R, and Wasserheit J. The Culture of Silence: Reproductive Tract Infections
among Women in the Third World. (New York: International Women's Health
Coalition 1991).
Over M and Piot P. HIV Infection and Sexually Transmitted Diseases. Forthcoming in
Dean T. Jamison and W. Hemy Mosley (eds) Disease Control Priorities in
Developing Countries. New York: Oxford University Press for the World Bank,
1992 (in press).
Pepin, J., Plummer, FA, et al, "The interaction between HIV infection and other sexually
transmitted diseases: an opportunity for intervention:. AIDS 1989, 3;3-9.
Piot P., Plummer FA., "AIDS: An international Perspective." Science 239 (February
1988) 573-9.
Piot P. and Meheus A. "Epidemiologie des maladies sexueliement transmissibles dans les
pays in developpement". Annales de la Societe Belge de Medecine Tropicale.
1983, 63:87-110.
Rajan, VS. "Semally transmitted diseases on a tropical island". British Journal of
Venereal Diseases. 1978, 54:141-3.
U.S. Bureau of Census, Summary of Seroprevalence Studies in Brazil mimeo, 1992.
Wasserheit J., "The Significance and Scope of Reproductive Tract Infections Am, ng
Third World Women," International Journal of Gynecology and Obstetrics,
Supplement 3, 1989, pp. 154-5.
Wasserheit J., Dixon-Mueller R., "The Culture of Silence: Reproductive Tract Infections
Among Women in the Third World. Itnational Women's Health Coalition. 1991,
pp. 5.



72
Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
STD IN UGANDA
Descriptive Epidemiology
1.    Surveillance reports: According to record review performed in 1990 by the ACP
and National STD Reference Center covering 5 years retrospective period approx. 20% of
afl out-patients in different health facilities (incluaing PHC) had STD related syndroms.
Detailed frequency of STD from those districts which report the conditions can be found
in HIV/AlDS surveillance quarterly reports by STD/AIDS Control Program.
Seroprevalence rates for syphilis from four different sentinel sites established by the ACP
among antenatal patients suggest that latent syphilis is very frequent (11.6% to 26.6%).
Record revievw in the National STD Reference Center in Old Mulago Hospital indicate that
genital ulcer disease (GUD) accounts for 30%. The remaining 15% accounts for other,
mainly genital warts. Approx. 80% of the urethral discharges (in men) are due to
Neisseria Gonorrhoear (often combined with other non-gonococcal infections including
chlamydia). Approx. 20% of all GUD (in men and women) are due to syphilis and another
20% to chancroid. The prevalence of HIV-I infection in this clinic attenders is 45% (42%
for men and 52% in women). Out of all GUD patients seen 67/o are HIV-I infected.
2.    Special studies: In the annual population survey (MRC/OOA/UVRI Program
anual report 1992) about 3% of the adult population reported genital ulcer and 10%
genital discharge in the previous 6 months. Data from the above suggest that 10.8% of
adults in rural Uganda had active syphilitic infection, 10.4% had positive H. Ducreyi
serology. (Seroprevalence of HIV/I in the population studied was 7.8%). Report on the
AIDS control in Moyo district 1990/91 by Medecins Sans Frontieres suggest that 4.5% of
adults 15-45 years old present STD related syndromes. A recent study undertaken in the
STD Reference Center indicates that 60-70% of N. Gonorrhoea strains circulating in
different urban areas of Uganda are penicillinase producers.
STD treatment seeldng behavior
3.    The MRC/ODA/UVRI annual report for 1992 indicates that 41% of rural
Ugandans reporting genital ulcer seelkng care in the formal health sector, 30% use the
informal sector and 29% take no action. Anectotal information suggests that in urban
Uganda the majority of STD patients seek care in private practices, many seek care in
hospitals run by NGOs. The minority seek care in public facilities and some at the market
place.



73
Annex 7
Page 1 of 4
A. DRUGS FOR THE TREATMEENT OF SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED
DlSEASES1
1. NUMBER OF STD CONTACTS DURING THE PROJECT
The number of STD contacts used for the current estimates are those reported in the STD
section of the present report. The tabulation below summarizes the project cases per year.
STD CONTACTS
Year               1994         1995        1996         1997         1998
District              8           22           39           39          39
Patients          57600       316800       561600      561600       561600
Partner not.       8640        47520        84240       84240        84240
Total
patients
GUD               19872       109296       193752      193752       193752
Genital
discharge         36432       200376      355212       355212       355212
2. DISTRIBUTION OF STD SYNDROMES
It is assumed that genital discharge accounts for 55% and GUD (genital ulcer disease) for
30% of the contacts.
3. STANDARD REGIMENS
Standard regimens are based on guidelines for the treatment of STIY The esfimates are
based on a syndromic approach with the following regimens:
Genitai discharge: chloramphenicol 2.5g PO BID for 2 days + Erythromycin 500mg
PO QID for 7 days.
GUD: co-trimoxazole (80+400) 250mg tab, 2 tab BID for 7 days + benzathine benzyl
penicillin 2.4 MU IM Stat.
Uganda dmg quaification- 16/9/93 Dr. Basseur (WHO), page 3.
2  Ministry of Hedath, Sexwy Transmitted Disemw £rzearnet Guidelines for health ceworeka in Uganda,
June 193.



74
Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
The foliowing table summarizes costs for the project fife span.
Cost of drugs for STD treatment (US$)
Year       1994        1995        1996        1997        1998
Cost per
year           124,974     687,356    1,218,494    1,218,494    1,218,494
Price
increase             0      34,368      60,925      60,925      60,925
I&P             23,745     137,128     243,090     243,090     243,090
Total CDP      148,718     858,851    1,522,508    1,522,508    1,522,508
Total cost
for 5 years                                                  5,575,095



75
Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
B. DRUGS FOR THE TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS3
REGIMES AND DRUG SUPPLY
Category 1: Regimen for new smear-positive cases and the severely ill (smear-ne: ative
and extrapulmonary):
2 months of HRZS followed by 6 months of TH (or EH), daily.
Category 2: Regimen for smear-positive retreatment cases:
2 months of HRZSE, followed by I month of HRZE, followed by 5 months of HRE daily.
Category 3: Other smear-negative and extrapulmonary cases:
2 months of STl, followed by 10 months of TH.
Expected number of cases to be treated by category per 100,000 population.
In each district project years are calculated from the exact beginning of the project:
Category 1: years of the project:   1 -  : 65
3-4 : 80
5  90
Category 2: years ofthe project    1-2 :10
3- 4 :1 5
5 : 20
Category 3: years ofthe project    1-  : 65
3-  : 80
5: 90
Type of drugs to be ordered: association   tablet of H 100mg + R 150mg
tablet of Z 500mg
tablet of E 400mg
tablet of H 300mg
association   tablet of H 300mg
vial of S I g + 1 vial of distilled water
Amount of drugs to treat one patient:
Category 1:  HR 250 tablets, Z 250 tablets, S 60 vials + distilled water,
HT 180 tablets (or HISO tablets + E 360 tablets)
Category 2:  HR 620 tablets, Z 360 tablets, S 60 vials + distilled water,
E 530 tablets
Category 3:  TH 360 tablets, S 60 vials + distilled water
3  Ugmudm Drg Quantirfiton, 1691993 Dr. Bas, (WHO).



76
Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
C. DRUGS FOR OPPORTUNISTIC iFECTIONS IN AIDS PATIENTS4
1. NUMBER OF AIDS PATIENTS
The number of AIDS patients used for the current estimates are those reported in the
Uganda National Operation Plan.' The tabulation below summarizes the projected cases
per year.
AIDS CASES
Year           1993        1994       1995       1996       1997       1998
AIDS
cases         165157    182413      199669    216925    234181    251436
2. DISTRIBUTION OF OPPORTUNISTIC INFECTIONS
The distribution of OI is based on 3 sources of information:
i) HIV/AIDS surveillance report published by the AIDS Control Programme6;
.i) Data analyzed for preparation of the National Operation Plan.
iii) Expert input. A meeting was organized at Mulago hospital to get clinician
opinions on 01 distribution and recurrence of episodes (patient contacts) during a
one year period.
3. STANDARD REGIMENS
Standard regimens are based on guidelines for the clinical management of 01 published in
1993. Average drug quantities and drug selection was submitted to clinicians experience.
4. DRUG PRICE
Drug pnces used for the current estimates are prces from major non-profit agencies (IDA,
UNIPAC, ECHO) and prices listed in the International Drug Price Indicator Guide
published by MSH. These prices have been checked with Central Medical Procurement
price list. The procurement procedures of the Central Medical Stores who operate most
on restricted international tenders are remarkably cost-effective.
4 Uganda drug quaniffiction 16/9193 Dr. Brasseur (WHO), page 1.
Uganda AIDS Commiion Secretarat, Uganda National Op     Plan for AIDS Previon, Care and
Support 1994-1998.
6  AIDS Control Proramme, HIVIAIDS sveimce report, December 1992, Ministry of Healt, Entebbe.



CONDOM ESTIMATES'
P|Fmty P%Plaiobn   Size of    Intou       Condom     Fraction overed             Codom requirements
Popato   per month   aamptae
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   rate_                   _  _ _
_YI    Y2  Y3  Y4   YS  Y           I Y2         Y3        Y4         YS         TotWl
Youth 11 - 14 y=m  1,700,000              0.1        0.08   0.5  I    I      1   163,200   1,020,000   2,040,000  2,040,000   2,040,000  7,303,200
Youth 15 - 19 ycars    1,800,000   10     0.2        0.08   0.5  I    1      1   3,456.000  21,600,000  43.200,00  43.200,000  43,200,000  154,656,000
Rual women (20-49)   2,400,000   8        0.05       0.08   0.5  1    I      1   921,600   5,760,000   11,520,00   115,20,000  11,520,000  41,241,600
Barmaidaays        350,000    20          0.3        0.08   0.5  I    I      1   2,016,000  12,600,000  25,200,00  25,200,000  25,200,000  90,216,000
Secihuse&rl        400,000    5           0.2        0.08   0.5  1    I      1   384,000   2,400,000   4,800,0000  4,00,000  4,800,000   17,184,000
Socjo- r Mr/f      5,000,000   2          0.2        0.08   0.5  1    1      1   960,000   6,000,000   12,000,00   12,000,000  12,000,000  42,960,000
Makeshift market nuf  500000   5          0.2        0.08   0.5  1          1   240,000   I,S00,000   3,000,000  3,000,000   3,000,000   10,740,000
Urban hurn/trading  500,000    8          0.2        0.08   0.5  1    I      I   768,000   42N#D&t  9,600,000  9,600,000   9,600,000   34,386,000
Security force     200,000    10          0.2        0.08   0.5  1               576,000   3,6,000   7,200,000  7,200,000 17,*200,000  25.776000 
TotW                          _    _-                                        I   9,484,800  59,280,000  e        *          *         424,444,800
|   Mradia g to  CI S yaw OperalmiM Pin fIr AMU  Ncntian,ko Care mad support 99S491L



78
Page 1 of 2
Supervision Strategy
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)   The ACP will submit semi-annual reports of project monitoring data to IDA in
March and September of each year.
(b)   The PIU in the MOH will maintain up-to date project accounts and present
summary accounts to IDA every six months.
(c)   The audits of project accounts by the Auditor General or by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA will be made available to the Bank within six months ofthe
close of each fiscal year.
(d)   Each implemeting unit will report semi-annually to the PIU on implementation,
ncluding progress and delays.
(e)   By June 1, 1996, the MOH in consultation with the project Steering Committee
will prepare and provide to IDA for its approval a plan for carrying out a Mid-
Term Project Review by September 1996 in consultation with IDA. MOH will,
with the assistance of the implementing units, carry out a Mid-Term Review in
accordance with the agreed plan. Thereafter, Govenmment will promptly take all
actions recommended as a result of the review that are required to achieve project
objectives.
(t)    The PIU will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision
missions and for providing information required by missions.
(g)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings before departure will
normally be chaired by the Director of Medical Services of MOH.
Bank Supervision Inputs
1.    It is estimated that reguar supervision from Washington (to review progress
reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc.) will require four staffieeks in the first
year of the project and three weeks per year thereafter. The staff time in the table that
fbliows is in addition to this day-to-day supenrision.



79
Aa9
Page 2 of 2
Bank Supervision Inputs into key Activities
Apromate Dates   Expected Skldl               Activity               Staff Inputs
Requirements                                 (in staffweeks)
07194                  Mission Leader         Project Launch         8
Procurement Specialist
Dise    Specaist
Management Specialist
02/95                  Mission Leader         Supervision            6
Economist
Disease Spcialist
Total FY95 =14
OB/95                  Mission Leader         Supervision            6
Epidemiologist
Disease Specialit
03/96                  Mission Leader         Supervision            6
Procurement Specialist
Disease Specialist
Total FY96=12
09/96                  Mission Leader         Mid-Term Review        12
Economist
Disese Spealst
Management Specialist
04/97                  Mission Leader         Supervison             4
Disease Specialist
Total FY97=16
09/97                  Mission Leader         Superision             6
Disease Specialist
Epdmologist
04/98                  Mission Leader         Supervision            4
Disease Specialist
Total FY98=10
11/98                 Mission Leader         Supervision            4
Disease Specialist
05/99                  Mission Leader         Project (,ompletion/   10
Economist.             Review Mission
Disease Specialist
Epidemiologist
Management Specialist
Total FY99=14
Note: Ecnomies of Scale will be realized by supervising this projcot jointly with the Firas Health and Disrict Health
Services Projects.



DISTRICT MONITORING AND EVALUATION MATRIX
Part A. Prevention
Objective 1: To Prevent Seal Transmission of HIV
Sub-objective 1: Promotion of Safer Sexal Behavior
PROGRAM IMPACT            PROGRAM    PROJECT             PROJECT ACTVITY    ACTIVrrY             EVALUATION          TIME        BY
INDICATORS                TARGETS    ACTnvTIES           INDICATORS             TARGETS          METHODS             FRAME       WHOM
% of people ged 1549      10 to 20o     -massmedia       # ofeducaion           to be            periodic surveys &    anmual    distric
cting at least t          icrease to    - drama          mateials distributed &    determined   record review
exwptable wys of          50Y           - commuity       adiodTV spots air      (TBD)
prtcting tmslves fiom                   mobiization      newspaper articles
HIV(PPI-l)                              - targeted
behaviord                                                                                                              00
intervention
drama             of dramatic production             _    lys               annual       distct &
in the disftict        _om__              _i__
community       # of communities                        talys               every two    district
mobiizafion     activly involeved in                    observatios &       yeas
prmoting Safer seu                      interviews
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ behavior_ _ _ _ _ _  _  _  _   _  _
arpged          # of commnity based                     intrvie  & recd   evey two    district
behavioral      iteventions prgrams                     review              Years
_intervention   recevigsuPPort
U 
_ :



PROGRAM IdPACT            PROGRAM    PROJECT            PROJECT ACTIVrrY    ACTrVrTY           EVALUATION          TME          BY
1NDICATORS                TARGETS    ACTIVrITES         INDICATORS             TARGETS          METHODS            FRAME        WHOM
# of people aged 1549 who   derease by   same as above                                         behavioral surveys   twice       district &
port havig had at least    20%                                                                                     duing        central
one sex pat r other than                                                                                           proj
the regula paer(s) in the                                                                                          period
last 12 months divided by
total number of people aged
1549 who report having
been sxualy active in the
last 12months
(PPI4)
% of people aged 15-49    increase by    same as above                                         behavioral surveys   twice       distric &
repoting the use of a     20o to 2S%                                                                               during       cental
condom during the most                                                                                             project
recent act of sexal                                                                                                period
interco urse  (PPI-S)__      _ _ _  _   __ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ __   _ _ _ _  _
Sub-objective 2: Provision of Condoms
PROGRAM lMPACT            PROGRAM    PROJECT            PROJECT ACTIVITY    ACTIVITY            EVALUATION         TIME        BY
INDICATORS                TARGETS    AC TI IES          INDICATORS             TARGETS         METHODS             FRAME       WHOM
# of condoms available for   90 to %   procuremt of  total # of condoms        90 to OO0Yo    records             annual      cms
distribution at the central    coverage  condoms        procured by CMS        procurement                                     (cental)
duing the peceding 12                                   during the peceding 12  response
months divided total                                    months compared to the
population aged 15-49 (PPI-                             # requested by district
2)                                                      health facilities
# of people at the peripheral  90 to 100%    distribution of   total # of condoms  90 to 100%  records             annual      cm &
level estimated to have   coverage      condoms         distributed during the    distribution                                 district
access to condoms divided                               preceding 12 months by  respons
the total populton aged                                 cms to district compared
15-49 (PPI-3)                                           to # of condoms
requesed by district
health facilities                                       .
II



Sub-objective 3: Promotion of care-seeking behavior and provision of STD care
PROGRAM  IMPACT           PROGRAM    PROJECT            PROJECT ACTIVITY    ACTIVITY           EVALUAIION          TIME        BY
1NDICATORS                TARGETS    ACTIVITES          INDICATORS             TARGETS         METHODS             FRAME       WHOM
# of individuals seing    50%/0 of     trained health    % of health persmel    85% of health    asDesmment of STD    twice    STD data
STD care in health facilities  individuals   persomel in  adequately tained in  workers will be   cse mngmt tbrough   during   recorder &
assessed and teated in an    seeking cae   mgmt of SID  correct mgmt of STD    trained to follow   health facility  project    medical
apppriate way divided by                                                       national STD    svey, observations  period      asistant
total mmtber of individuals                                                    guideines       of a sample of
seekng STD care in health                                                                      faciitites,
fcilities (PPI-6)                                                                               upervisoy
_        _        _                      _      _       ___                                   chcklist
supply facilities  % of facilities with  75% of health    recOrds review   annual      STD data
with adequlte    adequate suply of     facilites will                                  recorder &
supply of       drugs for treament of    have adequate                                 ACP
apropiate SID   STD                    supply of dmug
# of individuals seeking  70% of       to develop       % of facilities having  100% of        health facilities   annual      district                      co
STD care in facilities who   individual    guidelies on  partr notification    facilites bave    surves                        medical
received counseling, a    seeding Sl    partner         guelines               guidehes        supevisoy                       assistant
condom, advice on parter   care         notification                                           checklist
notification divided by total
number of individuals
seddng STD cae in health
facilities (PPI-7)
distribue       % of individul skng   80o of           population suvey    bsline &   ACP &
condoms to      care who receive a     inldiduls                           at proect   distict
health facilities   condom             seding care                         completion
receive condms
% of facilities with   80% of facilities
unintrruptedsupply a
_                           _                              scondom
devloptrimng  # of health care vtkaers  80% trained    tallys              twice       ACP
for be4ath     trained in parter                                           during
wkers on        notification                                               project
partner                                                                    peawod
______________________ .notification                                         _          .                                           ____
0 0



PROGRAM MPACT             PROGRAM    PROJECT            PROJECT ACTIMVTY    ACTIVrTY            EVALUATION         T1ME         BY
INDICATORS                TARGETS    ACTIVITIES         WIDICATORS             TARGETS          METHODS            FRAME        WHOM
# of prepant women aged    20%          syphillis       % of preginat women    30% of women   MCH record review   annual        STD data
15-24 with positive serology  decrease  screeing at     whose blood has been    tested         and district reports            recorder
for syphillis divided by the           antenatal clinics  screened for syphilis
total number of pregnt
women aged 15-24
atnding anteatal clinics
whose blood has been
screend (PPI-4)____
training of     % of MCH tained with  50% of the       record review &     aual         STD data
preoel to       adequate provision of    centers will   district reports               recorder
provide test    test                   have syphilis
RPR card test                _  .
provide         % of pregant women    100%Y. of xhose   record review      monthly      STD
treatmnt for    found positive who are   found positive                                recorder
syphillis      treated for syphillis   are treated for
___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _     s pi0is0
# of reported episodes    20%           STD syndromic   % of men seking SID    70%0o of                 of         baseline &   STD data
urethritis in men aged 15-49  decrease  screenig in     care at PHC            symptomatic     district records    end of      recorder
in the last 12 months                  PHC facilities    total # of individuals  patients will  before and after   project
divided by the total number                             seeking care at PHC    seek care in    project
of men aged 15-49 surveyed                                                     PHC facilitites   patient selfreport
(PPI-9)                                                                        rather than in    survey
# of pregnant women aged               HIV anonymous  # of blood screen for                    blinded HIV         anul        ACP
15 -24 srpositive for HIV              sc g             HIV at antenatal clinics               sentinel surveillance           epidemiolo
divided by total number of             IHV              # of women seeking                     fiequen  of HIV                  gist
prpant women aged 15 -                                  onfidential testing at                 test request
24 attnin antenatal                    confidential     clinics
clinics whose blood has                testing
been screened (PPI-10)                                                       J
II



Obiective 2: Mitigate personal impact of AIDS
Sub-objective 4: Support for community-based health care and social support
PROGRAM IMPACT            PROGRAM    PROJECT             PROJECT AClTVITY    ACTIVITY            EVALUATION          TIM E       BY
INDICATOR                 TARGETS    ACTIVITM            INDICATORS             TARGE3TS         MEHODS              FRAlAE      WHOM
Toal # of people attending              HVIAIDS case   % of sIlds performed                      SuPervisory         evety 3     distric
HlV/AIDS as management                  magemerA         apporiately as                          checlists           months      medcal
taining (PCI-2)                         taining         reflected in case                                                        assistant
management. check lists
for TD, HIV & TB
# of people receivig AIDS               distict level       of community bad                     records             a           disrict
related health services m               provision of     health se prce  oviders                                                 (STD data
the community compared to               upport for       and home-based care                                                     recoreder)
* of people in need of such             community        pviders sppoted in
sevices (PCI-1)                         health serces   the distict
elated to AIDS
case
monagemnt                                                                                                          00
including TB
case
m _a...ent
# of people receiving social            advtsing &       # of pmmotional                         rcoards interviews    baseline  consultant
support services for AIDS-              fcilitating      activities                                                  and at end
related isse frm                        access to                                                                    of project
community compaed to #                  community        # of individuls
seking Sich seices (PC-                 based & home-   receiving socid support
4)                                      based social     services
support service
providers
# of social pport serce                 stengtheing                                              records             once at     consultant
providers in the commuity               social support                                           observation         basehin of
by type of soical spport                services in the                                          interiews           project &
(PCI-5)                                 community                                                                    at end of
pam                  .I



Sub-objective 5: Provision of drugs for opportunistic infection
PROGRAM IMPACT           PROGRAM    PROJECT            PROJECT ACTIVT         ACTVIlTY        EVALUATION          TIM E       BY
INDICATOR                TARGETS    ACTIVrTES          INDICATORS             TARGETS         METHODS             FRAME       WHOM
# of individuals receiving             procurement     # of drpgs procured                    records            annual       canal
drugs for t _atm  of                   and distribution   # of drugs distributed                                              (CMS)
opportunistic infction                 of opportunistic  # of patients provided               records            annual       district
divided by # seeking (or in            infection       drugs                                                                  (DHT)
need of ) drugs for                                    unmet need for                         records             annual      STD data
opportunistic infection                                opportumistic drugs                                                    recorder &
I                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~consultant
-__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  .__ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _assistance
Sub-objective 6: Provision of TB case management
PROGRAM IMPACT           PROGRAM    PROJECT            PROJECT ACTIVITY    ACTIVITY           EVALUATION          TIM E       BY
INDICATOR                TARGETS    ACTIVITES          INDICATORS             TARGETS         MEHODS              FRAME       WHOM
# of people receiving TB               provision of    # of people with TB                    records             annual                               00
case management compared               training in TB    # of people trained to                                                                        k
to # of people with TB                 diagnosis and   provide TB case                        supevision cheeklist            DHT
care                                                                                  medical
% of people perfarming                                                assistt
TB case manage_mt
# of patients receiving
.________   ____   _____  adequate TB drugs
Objective 3: Overall Strengthening of Institutional Capacity
PROGRAM lMPACT           PROGRAM    PROJECT            PROJECT ACTIVITY    ACTIVITY           EVALUATION         TIM E        BY
INDICATOR                TARGETS    ACTIVITIES         INDICATORS             TARGETS         METHODS            FRAME        WHOM
% of ACP program                       strengthening   assessmt of each                       observations       twice a      project
componen_s being                       planning.       compont according to                   saeisy             year 94,96, support
performed adequately                      ning,        standards & guidelins                  checklists         98           coordinator
monitoring,                                            progm reviews                  DA
evination &
project
m      __te___



86                                Annex I I
Page 1 of I
Procurement Plan
Project procurement will be performed on a scheduled basis as follows:
Prowrement Schedule (US$ Million)
proiet Elemnt  Fre     nY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   fs    FY2000   Total
Freouencv/vear
Drugs&                 2          2.1    4.0      4.1     4.2    4.3       4.2     22.9
Equipment
Supplies              2           3.6    4.0      5.0    5.1    4.2        4.5     26.4
EEC Materials         2           1.0    1.5      1.5    1.5    1.6        1.7      8.8
Local Training       N/A          0.5     0.5     1.0    0.5    0.5        0.5      3.5
Technical              1          0.2    0.1      0.1                               0.4
Assistance
Vehicles               1          1.9                                               1.9
Allowances           N/A                  0.3     0.3    0.3                        0.9
Research/              2          0.5    1.0      1.5     1.0    0.5       0.6      5.1
Monitoring
Studies                1                  0.1     0.1    0.1                        0.3
Recurrent Costs      N/A          0.5     0.5     0.5    0.7    0.5        0.5      3.2
Total                            10.3    12.0    14.1    13.4   11.6      12.0    73.4
The borrower will submit updates to the Bank on a semi-annua basis. These
updated reports will monitor actual versus estimated procurement dates, US dollar totals
by supplier and aggregate US dollar totals by project element. The Borrower will indicate
causes of, and corrective actions to be taken, on all substantial variances and schedule
delays.



87                         ex 12
Page 1 of 1
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
PROJECT STEERING COMIITTEE:
Terms of reference:
The Committee will act as the advisory body to all implementing agencies by:
*  monitoring project implementation;
*  addressing and seeking solution to problems, that cannot be resolved through the
normal lines of command; and
*  advising the P.S. on policies and other matters related to the project.
Coordination will thus take place through the established mechanisms of the
Ministry of Health. The membership of the Project Steering Committee is limited but can
be expanded if necessary.
The committee meets four times per year, with additional meetings as required.
Members
1. Permanent Secretary, MOH
2. Director of Medical Services, Chairman (Project Director)
3. Commissioner for Health Planning
4. Commissioner for Health Promotion
5. Commissioner for CDC/A[DS
6. Commissioner for Curative Services
7. ACP Manager
8. Director for National Medical Stores (NMS, former CMS)
9. Representative from Ministry of Local Govermment
10. Representative from Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
11. Representative from UAC Secretariat
12. Representative from Ministry of Information
13. Representative from NGOs.
14. Representative from UNICEF, WHO, USAID
15. Project Coordinator, Secretary



88
Annex 13
Page 1 of 1
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Fiscal Year    Disbursement      Accumulated       Accwnulated
and Quarter     During Quarter     Disbursement      Disbursement
Ending
FY 1995
Sept. 30, 1994           0                 0                 0
Dec. 31, 1994            0                 0                 0
Mar. 31, 1995           2,500             2,500               c
June 30, 1995           2,500            2,500               10
FY 1996
Sept. 30, 1995          1,500            6,500               13
Dec. 31, 1995           1,500             8,000              16
Mar. 31, 1996           2,500            10,500              21
June 30, 1996           2,500            13,000              26
FY 1997
Sept. 30, 1996          1,500            14,500              29
Dec. 31, 1996           1,500            16,000              32
Mar. 31, 1997           2,500            18,500              37
June 30, 1997           2,500            21,000              42
FY 1998
Sept. 30, 1997         3,000             24,000              48
Dec. 31, 1997           3,000            27,000              54
Mar. 31, 1998           3,000            30,000              60
June 30, 1998           3,000            33,000              66
FY 1999
Sept. 30, 1998         3,000             36,000              72
Dec. 31, 1998           3,000            39,000              78
Mar. 31, 1999           2,500            41,500              83
June 30, 1999           2,500            44,000              88
FY 2000
Sept. 30, 1999          1,500            45,500              91
Dec. 31, 1999           1,500            47,000              94
Mar. 31, 2000           1,500            48,500              97
June 30, 2000           1,500            50000             100



89
Annex 14
Page 1 of 1
List of Documents in Project File
Armstrong (1991). Uganda: The Economic Impact of AIDS.
Kirumira, Edward; Katahoire, Anne; Ab t, Anthony; Edstrom, Karin (1993): Study on
the Sexual and Reproductive Heaith in Ugandan Women.
Makerere University, University of Copenhagen, Danish Institute for Clinical
Epidemiology (1993). Community and Health System - A longitudinal Study of
interaction and change in Uganda.
STD Control Program (1993). HlI/AIDS Surveillance Report.
STD Control Program (1993). Sexually Transmitted Diseases Treatment guidelines for
Health Workers in Uganda.
Uganda AIDS Commission Secretariat (1993). National guidelines for the Clinical
Management of HIV Infection in adults and Children.
Uganda AIDS Commission Secretariat (1993). Uganda National Operational Plan for
HIV/AIDS/STD Prevention, Care and Support 1994-1998.
UNICEF (1993). Child Action 2000. The Districts Speak out - A participatory National
Assessment of the situation of Women and Children.
Wawer, Maria (1993). Rakai Project STD Control for AIDS Prevention.
WHO (1992). Global Blood Safety Initiative - Viral Inactivation of Blood and Blood
Products.
WHO (1991). Global Blood Safety Initiative - Consensus Statement on how to achieve a
safe and adequate blood supply by recruntment and retention of voluntary, non-
remunerated blood donors.
WHO (1993). Uganda: Second Health Plan - Drug Estimates.
WHO (1993). Project Description - Tuberculosis.



--W       I                                                               lsv    /            N
IBRD 25052
20'                                          321                                         34' /                                        36'
SUDAN
rd-  -~~~~~~~~-                          oo
UGANDA
AAd/ .At 9 tJge R F } / e <  -~                              RIVERS
< e-> <(  9   ;)   <42   IK°T']°! >j)  FALLS
FERRIES
PRIMARY BITUMEN ROADS
MORO                     PRIMARY GRAVEL ROADS
< gL \ A-hto R              +                         04 UNSURFACED ROADS
T.-                                                                                                            RAILROADS
o   SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
K.                          IND -; < '°n¢<' >totOlot.    *   DISTRICT CAPITALS
. X^    .    f    )    J    r<~   /   X  4  / @*NATIONAL CAPITAL
/if   HOIMA      ; -              st    9         \K       U    S   E    ;       /-                  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES*
REGION BO'JNDARIES
->    ''INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
* Dicirkct n:mes coincide w*h District Capitls, with on
B~lf~  UGY  /     tod  0t~o,r .KI                                                                               ezcepton: Fort Portal is the VistrictCopitol of Kaoraole Disticd.
T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                             3
to                                                                        I 0   ,5   W  W                                         .              lw  |
UKUNGIbe )                        XIzenbo                                                                                         RWAND) 4@  KYAbeIa  .  KENYA
T,                                                                F.1~~~~~~~~~~~t,t o lo.OfTolO
rLOkKI                                      MASAKA  9        KAAN ALA     \COI                                                    ¢       A  
rd            SHE                 _                                                      t=>. --*
|  ,6.  \_}  / bt~~~~~~~to rhoopdoonoonpiloo#,opo,t
t 5gRWt                                         s~~t UANDAA
VWa~~~~~~~nonpooosd booo,donlhdo,.
JULY 1993 



