Page  1
Document of
 
The World Bank
Report No: 
26048
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(
IDA-26030; TF-20120; TF-27945; TF-27946
)
ON 
A
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF 
US$  MILLION
TO 
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR 
 A SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS PROJECT 
June 23, 2003
Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their 
official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
Page  2
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 
March 9, 1994
)
Currency Unit 
 =
Uganda Shilling (USh)
  
1Ush
 =
US$  
US$0.077
US$ 
1
 =
1282.9Ush
US$1 = SDR 1.37817
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - 
     
June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP
AIDS Control Program
AIC
Average Incremental Cost
AIDS
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ANC
Ante-Netol Care
CBO
Community Based Organization
CDC
Curriculum Development Centre
CHAP
Community Health and AIDS Project
CSW
Commercial Sex Workers
DfiD
Department for International Development, United Kingdom
DHSP
District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project
DOTS
Directly Observed Treatment
EU
European Union
GoU
Government of Uganda
GPA
Global Program on AIDS
HIV
Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus
HIV/AIDS
Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
IDA
International Development Association
IEC
Information Education and Communication
KABP
Knowledge, Attitudes, Beliefs and Practices
KfW
Kreditanstadt fur Wiederaufbau
M & E
Monitoring and Evaluation
MAP
Multi-Country AIDS Program
MSI
Marie Stopes International
MOH
Ministry of Health
NACP
National AIDS Control Program
NGO
Non Government Organization
NMS
National Medical Stores
OPL
Operational Level
PAF
Project Action Funds
PCO
Project Coordination Office
PHC
Primary Health Care
PHCCG
Primary Health Care Conditional Grants
PLWHA
People Living With HIV/AIDS
PMTCT
Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission
PYAR
Person Years At Risk
QAG
Quality Assurance Group
SAR
Staff Appraisal Report
 
Page  3
SOMARC
Social Marketing for Change Project
STD
Sexually Transmitted Diseases
STI
Sexually Transmitted Infections
SWAP
Sector wide approach
TB
Tuberculosis
UAC
Uganda AIDS Commission
UDHS
Uganda Demographic and Health Survey
UNFPA
United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF
United Nations Children Fund
UPDF
Uganda People Defense Forces
USAID
United States Agency for International Development
VCT
Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO
World Health Organization
Vice President: 
Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:
Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager/Director:
Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
 
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:
Peter Okwero
 
Page  4
UGANDA
SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data
1
2. Principal Performance Ratings
1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
17
6. Sustainability
19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
19
8. Lessons Learned
21
9. Partner Comments
23
10. Additional Information
27
Annex 1.  Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
28
Annex 2.  Project Costs and Financing
34
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits
40
Annex 4.  Bank Inputs
41
Annex 5.  Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
44
Annex 6.  Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
45
Annex 7.  List of Supporting Documents
46
Annex 
8.  Comments from MoH and Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
 
47
 
Page  5
Project ID:
 
P002963
 
Project Name:
 
SEXUAL.TRANS.IN
Team Leader:
 
Peter Okwero
TL Unit:
 
AFTH1
ICR Type:
 
Core ICR
Report Date: 
June 23, 2003
1.  Project Data
Name:
SEXUAL.TRANS.IN
L/C/TF Number:
IDA-26030; TF-20120; 
TF-27945; TF-27946
Country
/
Department
:
UGANDA
Region:
Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector
:
Health (93%); Other social services (6%); General public 
administration sector (1%)
Theme:
Fighting communicable diseases (P); Population and reproductive 
health (P); Health system performance (S); Civic engagement, 
participation and community driven development (S); Gender (S)
KEY DATES
Original
Revised/Actual
PCD:
06/15/1989
Effective:
07/22/1994
07/22/1994
Appraisal:
10/25/1993
MTR:
06/30/1996
10/27/1997
Approval:
04/12/1994
Closing:
12/31/2000
12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency
:
GOVERNMENT/Ministry of Health
Other Partners:
Sida, ODA and KFW
STAFF
Current
At Appraisal
Vice President:
Callisto E. Madavo
Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Director
:
Judy O'Connor
Francis Colaco
Sector Manager:
Dzingai Mutumbuka
Jacob Van Lutsenburg Mass
Team Leader at ICR:
Peter Okwero
V. Jagdish
ICR Primary Author(s):
Ramesh Govindaraj and Peter 
Okwero
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly 
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:
S
Sustainability:
L
Institutional Development Impact:
H
Bank Performance:
S
Borrower Performance:
S
QAG (if available)
ICR
Quality at Entry:
S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
No
Page  6
3.  Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1
Original Objective:
The Sexually Transmitted Infections Project (STIP) was conceived as a project to sustain momentum and 
strengthen the control of AIDS and other sexually transmitted infections in Uganda, as part of the country’s 
response to the severe impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic on the general population and on the economy.  
At the time, funding from the Global Program on AIDS (GPA) of the WHO - that had provided significant 
support between 1987 and 1992 to the National AIDS Control Program (NACP) of the Ministry of Health 
(MOH) - was running out.  However, the national HIV prevalence among adults was still estimated at 
about 15% and Uganda was being referred to as the epicenter of the HIV epidemic. 
The Bank had initially proposed a Community Health and AIDS Project (CHAP) as a follow up to the 
Bank-supported Uganda First Health Project to address health policy issues and support efforts to contain 
the growing AIDS epidemic.  Given the seriousness of the AIDS crisis and the perceived complicated 
design of CHAP, however, the original project was split into two projects – STIP, which was to focus 
specifically on STD and HIV interventions, and the District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration 
Project (DHSP Cr. 2679-UG), which was intended to support a broad set of health sector reform 
initiatives, including the rehabilitation of the health infrastructure in Uganda.  The delays involved in 
designing CHAP, and later splitting it into two projects - both of which involved significant consultations 
with relevant partners - explains, to some extent, the long time taken to prepare STIP.  Also, as discussed 
later in the report, this decision to split CHAP into two projects:  (a) STIP, focused more on inputs such as 
drugs and condoms relevant to STIs and HIV/AIDS, in addition to prevention; and (b) DHSP, focused on 
broader policy and institutional reform and infrastructure development, had significant implications for 
STIP.
STIP was designed to achieve three main objectives:   (a) To prevent sexual transmission of HIV by 
promotion of safer sexual behavior; provision of condoms; promotion of Sexually Transmitted Diseases 
(STD) care seeking behavior; and provision of effective STD care; (b) To mitigate the personal impact of 
AIDS by provision of support for community and home based care; social support for people living with 
AIDS; provision of drugs for opportunistic infections, including protective supplies for district health 
facilities; and effective tuberculosis (TB) management; and (c) To support institutional development to 
manage HIV prevention and AIDS care by strengthening the districts' capacity to plan, implement, and 
monitor integrated AIDS related activities; and strengthening the national capacity to provide adequate 
technical support on health issues related to AIDS.
The project objectives were clear and in line with Government's White Paper on Health Policy (1993) and 
the HIV/AIDS National Operational Plan (1993), and were also consistent with the World Health 
Organization (WHO) technical guidelines for National AIDS Programs.  Further, the Bank had supported 
projects with STD and HIV control components in other countries, from which lessons could potentially be 
drawn.  The project design was based on existing programs - most notably the NACP in the Ministry of 
Health – under whose broad ambit STIP was to be implemented.  STIP was also intended to complement 
health sector and HIV/AIDS programs being supported by donors such as USAID, UNFPA, UNICEF, 
DfiD, SIDA and KfW, of which the last two were co-financiers of STIP, while DfiD provided parallel 
support.  Given the emergency nature of the project, and with the Bank-supported First Health Project 
under the Ministry of Health (MOH) just having been completed, the Bank decided that the Ministry of 
Health (MOH), which was familiar with IDA procedures, could - with appropriate capacity building during 
the project – successfully manage the STIP project.  Overall, the project was seen to be responsive to 
borrower circumstances at the time, given the high level of commitment of both government and civil 
society to HIV/AIDS and the fact that the project was building on an existing program (i.e., the NACP).
- 2 -
Page  7
On the other hand, at the time of project design, Uganda's institutions – including the MOH - were still 
weak, as the country was just recovering from years of civil strife.  The Uganda AIDS Commission (UAC) 
- set up under the Office of the President with support from various international partners, including the 
Bank – had successfully outlined a multisectoral AIDS control strategy.  However, the Bank, in 
consultation with the GoU, made a determination that, because of capacity constraints, the Commission 
was not ready to take over the leadership of STIP.  Further, evidently, the UAC had at the outset tried to 
take on an implementation role, in addition to its primary coordination function.  A subsequent debate 
within the government led to a decision to separate the coordination and implementation function and assign 
them to different government agencies.  At any rate, due to a combination of these factors, STIP was 
implemented under the stewardship of the MOH through the creation of a Project Coordination Office 
(PCO), staffed largely by personnel from the project implementation unit of the First Health Project.  The 
implications of project coordination by the MOH, rather than by the UAC, for promoting a truly 
multisectoral response to HIV, are discussed later in the report.
The design of the project directly responded to the government's decentralization policy.  However, the 
project was designed with a sense of urgency in order to cope with the rapid evolution of the HIV/AIDS 
situation in Uganda.  Accordingly, the project had a district-focus that involved the decentralization of 
financial and general management responsibilities to the districts at a time when the appropriate capacity 
and authority were still being established at district level.  From this perspective, the project's district focus, 
coupled with the increasing AIDS burden, placed a management and budgetary strain beyond the capacity 
of the districts to cope.  The project also seems to have overestimated the MOH’s coordination abilities, 
even considering the training and capacity building activities proposed in the project in recognition of the 
limited capacities existing in the Ugandan government at that time.  This was particularly the case with 
procurement, as evidenced by the significant procurement problems faced by the project throughout its 
implementation. Given the long gestation period involved in developing STIP, and despite the demands 
imposed by the AIDS epidemic (which were significant) , these issues could have been better addressed by 
the Bank, as discussed later in this report.
On the other hand, the project provided for a wide range of implementers at different levels that enabled 
implementation of a broad mix of interventions targeting various groups.  Thus, the same district focus that 
proved to be an impediment to project implementation, particularly at the beginning, also helped to move 
the front-line for dealing with the AIDS epidemic to the grassroots, and facilitated faster capacity building 
within the districts.  The project was also able to support implementation of activities in other sectors 
through NGOs and CBOs.  Even the few who have criticized the claims of a Ugandan HIV/AIDS success 
story (e.g., see Justin Parkhurst, 2002) acknowledge that the success can be attributed, to a large extent, to 
the synergy between NGOs, faith based groups and CBOs, and the government which has “implemented a 
uniquely creative and strategic policy approach to enable non-state actors in their individually targeted 
messages of prevention.  It is lessons from this joint approach that need to be learned…” (p. 79).  NGOs 
have played an especially important role in the home based care of PLWHA.
At about the same time, Uganda had also begun work on a Sexual and Reproductive Health Strategy; but 
there seems to have been relatively little cross-fertilization between this nascent strategy and the design of 
STIP.  The country had also initiated a major program of political and administrative decentralization, 
supported by several far-reaching policy decisions.  The project, therefore, had to adopt a decentralized 
approach to implementation, which accentuated the challenges related to capacity building.  Furthermore, 
there were also other ongoing reform efforts - such as the reform of the civil service - that had significant 
health sector ramifications.  These factors posed serious risks to the project.  Remedial measures such as 
capacity building and institutional strengthening included in the project were intended to partly mitigate 
- 3 -
Page  8
these risks.  Also, the DHSP, designed at the same time, was expected to specifically address institutional 
and capacity constraints in the districts and center, and to support the Ministry of Health in implementing 
the government's decentralization program.
The following targets, relating primarily to the first of three STIP project components, were identified in 
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) as measures of project performance, and evidently reflected what was 
seen to be feasible at the time.
At least 50% of the target population able to cite two acceptable ways of protection from HIV; 
l
Condom use with non-regular partners increased by 50%; 
l
Reported casual sex partnerships reduced by 20%; and 
l
70% of individuals seeking STD care receiving appropriate STD treatment.
l
These key targets were not revised during the course of project implementation.  However, a broader set of 
indicators (called “Key Performance Indicators”) were identified at the mid-term review, and followed to a 
limited extent in the Project Status Reports.  These indicators are included in Annex 1.
3.2
Revised Objective:
The project objectives remained unchanged during the course of the project.
3.3
Original Components:
In accordance with its stated objectives the project had the following three components:
Component 1:  Prevention of Sexual Transmission of HIV ($35 million):  
Prevention of sexual 
transmission of HIV was to be achieved through the following subcomponents:  promotion of safer sex 
behavior by awareness raising, community mobilization and targeted behavioral interventions; provision of 
condoms; promotion of STD care seeking behavior and provision of effective STD care.  Prevention of 
Mother to Child Transmission (PMTCT) and Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT) were not part of 
the project design; however, the project was to later support the procurement of test kits, and the training of 
counselors following the successful implementation of VCT activities by the AIDS Information Center with 
funding from other donors.  PMTCT activities, adopted in later years of the project, were largely supported 
by other donors.
Component 2:  Mitigation of Personal Impact of AIDS ($22.4 million): 
 Under the project, mitigation of 
the personal impact of AIDS was to be achieved through:  provision of support for community and 
home-based care and social support for people living with AIDS; provision of drugs for opportunistic 
infections and clinical and protective supplies; and training of staff in care of persons with AIDS including 
diagnosis and management of tuberculosis.
Component 3:  Institutional Development ($10.7 million):  
Under institutional development, the project 
was to strengthen the capacity of districts to plan and manage AIDS activities, and the capacity at the 
national level to provide adequate technical support on issues related to health and AIDS.  In addition, the 
project was to further strengthen existing HIV/AIDS surveillance, monitoring and evaluation, and 
operational research activities.
Overall, Components 1 and 3 of STIP were appropriate, reflected current knowledge and experience at the 
time, and were directly related to the achievement of project objectives.  Component 2, however, seems to 
have focused almost exclusively on the impact of HIV at the level of the individual.  Less attention seems to 
have been paid to the significant impacts of the epidemic at the household and population level, and to the 
- 4 -
Page  9
sectoral and economic impacts of the epidemic, which are now widely acknowledged to be important 
elements in the fight against HIV/AIDS.  It must be noted that these broader impacts of HIV/AIDS were 
only beginning to be recognized at the time of STIP’s design.  In that sense, the project’s focus on treatment 
and care - rather than exclusively on preventive efforts – and the fact that it supported treatment initiatives 
in sectors other than health, such as in the army, police, and prisons are to be lauded.  Nevertheless, the 
need for broad-based, multisectoral action in national HIV/AIDS control programs is a valuable lesson 
learned from STIP. 
At the time of project design, there were no completed or formally evaluated Bank projects that were 
similar to STIP (although the Bank did initiate such projects in Zimbabwe in 1993 and in Kenya in 1994) 
that could offer precise guidance on best practice.  Nevertheless, as noted, there were a number of the 
Bank's health projects that had STD control and AIDS components that provided useful lessons.  STIP was 
designed in close collaboration and with the active participation of several partners - local and international 
- involved in HIV/AIDS initiatives in Uganda.  As noted, the project components reflected ongoing 
activities/interventions being implemented by other partners, thereby avoiding a duplication of effort.  For 
example, blood safety, which was supported by the European Union (EU), was excluded from the project 
during project design.
The project was consistent with the WHO recommendation at that time that STI treatment is a 
cost-effective strategy to prevent HIV transmission.  The Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) that 
causes AIDS is primarily a sexually transmitted disease in Sub-Saharan Africa, and is largely preventable 
through the same precautions used to prevent other sexually transmitted infections (STIs).  In addition to 
being painful, and potentially contributing to chronic health problems and infertility, by the early 1990s a 
growing body of evidence suggested that the presence of other STIs facilitated the transmission of HIV.  
Moreover, research in Africa suggested that early diagnosis and treatment of STIs might reduce the risk of 
HIV transmission.  Subsequent research, however, has shown that the impact of STI treatment on HIV 
transmission may depend of a number of factors, including the type of STI, whether the STI is ulcerative, 
the quality and coverage of STI treatment programs, sexual behavior patterns, and the extent to which HIV 
transmission is limited to high risk groups as opposed to having spread to the general population (Fleming 
and Wasserheit 1999; Rottingen, et al. 2001).
3.4
Revised Components:
The project components remained unchanged throughout the project life.  However, blood safety, which 
was largely supported by the European Union, and was therefore not included as a project component, was 
later given limited support by STIP due to shortfalls in EU funding.
3.5
Quality at Entry:
Project concept, objectives and approach:  
The project design reflected existing conditions at the time:   
(a) Uganda was just emerging from civil strife that had crippled public institutions, including in the health 
sector; (b) Support from the GPA and other donors for HIV/AIDS interventions was ending, although the 
prevalence of the epidemic was its highest and was severely affecting the economy; (c) The government 
was involved in a major decentralization program; (d) The government and civil society organizations were 
fully committed to the fight against HIV/AIDS.  In this environment, a stand-alone project implemented 
through a decentralized arrangement including civil society organizations was considered necessary in order 
to mount a vigorous program to mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS.
The Bank’s support for the disbursement of funds at district, rather than at central, level was a significant 
departure for World Bank projects at that time, and signaled a new approach embracing decentralization 
and a broader definition of partnership.  Despite glitches during implementation, which are to be expected 
- 5 -
Page  10
with a new approach, the project was inscribed in an acceptable policy framework, which included the 
adoption of a district health planning approach and the development of a policy on home-based care.  The 
project pursued the strategic priorities of controlling the HIV/AIDS epidemic through evidence-based, 
cost-effective, STI prevention and treatment interventions.  The preparation of the project followed a 
participatory approach whereby key stakeholders - such as government departments, NGOs, CBOs and the 
donor community - were closely involved.  In fact, as noted, the enlistment of non-state actors in the fight 
against HIV represents one of the greatest successes of the government, and this partnership – which was 
furthered by STIP - was instrumental in Uganda’s being able to reverse the course of the epidemic in the 
country.  The Bank played a very significant role at both the design and implementation stage to further 
this collaboration and foster a sincere partnership between the government and civil society. Indeed, this 
example of public-private collaboration stands out as a model for all developing countries seeking to 
confront the HIV/AIDS issue head-on.
A critical question for which the mission failed to find a persuasive answer is why a decision was made to 
have the MOH, and not the UAC, as the Executing Agency for STIP.  While, as noted, the lack of adequate 
capacity at the UAC was suggested as the primary reason, and while it is true that after over ten years since 
its inception, the UAC is still trying to clearly define its leadership role in AIDS control in Uganda, it is 
equally true that significant investments had to be made to enable the PCO in the MOH to play this role 
effectively.  It is not entirely clear why these investments in capacity building, with similar results, could 
not have been made within the UAC.  In addition to avoiding tensions between the UAC and the MOH, 
which are only now being addressed, such investments might have significantly broadened the scope and 
reach of STIP in AIDS control beyond the health sector (which clearly dominated STIP) to involve the 
other relevant sectors.  The fact that the UAC had positioned itself as an implementing agency (with the 
risks of over-centralization that this might entail) could surely have been addressed through an effective 
policy dialogue with the government.  Furthermore, while the project did establish AIDS control programs 
in other ministries, the mechanisms for ensuring multisectorality, whereby the line ministries would address 
HIV/AIDS in their work-plans and budges, were not particularly effective (although the MOH did have 
significant success in engaging civil society actors from various sectors at the community level).  Also, 
while it should be acknowledged that STIP was but one component of the National AIDS Control Program 
(NACP), a greater focus on these institutional, governance and coordination issues – which might have 
been better accomplished by the UAC which (unlike the MOH) had that mandate - could have significantly 
strengthened the multisectoral response.  To the extent that STIP could not be implemented as a truly 
multisectoral HIV/AIDS response, the failure of the Bank to adequately support the UAC as the focal point 
for AIDS control activities in Uganda - through a more proactive engagement in the policy dialogue with 
the Government of Uganda - must be seen as a missed opportunity.  Of course, it should be noted that the 
thinking on a multisectoral approach to AIDS control has evolved over the years, and the approach was not 
as refined in 1994 (when STIP was designed) as it is today.  To the extent that a multisectoral response is 
being pursued in the Uganda AIDS Control Project under the Multi-Country AIDS Program (MAP), this is 
a step in the right direction.
Although STIP was conceived and designed as a traditional project, despite the co-financing provided by 
SIDA and KfW, it ended up providing broad programmatic support.  This was because the project’s 
(technical) implementation was to be led and coordinated through the NACP at the center, and the District 
Medical Offices at district level, against a background where the relationship of various donor projects, 
including STIP, to the Government's broader national HIV/AIDS program was not made explicit - although 
there was a general understanding that the various donor-supported projects under the NACP would be 
“closely coordinated”.  While the Bank did make attempts to bring about such collaboration by, for 
example, insisting on STIP submitting work plans of all district activities in order to better position STIP in 
these activities, it is fair to conclude that the overall coordination among the individual projects contributing 
- 6 -
Page  11
to the NACP program could have been far more active and effective.  Partly as a result of the problems 
with collaboration, despite the relative technical soundness of the project, which included a comprehensive 
District Monitoring and Evaluation Framework Matrix covering both program and project indicators that 
was prepared based on WHO guidelines, insufficient attention was given to monitoring and evaluation of 
the project throughout the life span of the project.  The NACP collected only program indicators, almost 
completely neglecting the project specific indicators.  This was one of the more serious deficiencies in 
project design, and had a significant negative impact on the implementation of the project.
Poverty, equity, and gender/youth focus: 
 
The HIV/AIDS epidemic posed a huge threat to the economic, 
social, and political fabric of Uganda, in general, and to the health sector, in particular.  STIP rightly 
determined that by preventing HIV transmission, and providing treatment and support to people already 
infected, the project could help in mitigating the socioeconomic and political impact of the epidemic in 
Uganda. 
At the time of project entry, it was intended that attention would be given to certain high-risk groups to be 
targeted by the project, such as adolescent girls, truck drivers, the military, police, migrant workers, slum 
dwellers, truck drivers, and commercial sex workers (CSWs).  While the design document emphasized the 
importance of targeting high-risk groups, the project did not establish specific mechanisms to target these 
groups (except, notably, for STI patients and military, police and prison personnel), nor was an overall 
strategy or monitoring program put in place to ensure adequate coverage of these groups.  In part, the 
absence of effective targeting was driven by a broader discussion within the Bank on the appropriate choice 
between targeting the “traditional” high risk groups (CSWs and truck drivers - thereby putting emphasis on 
those who transmit HIV) versus targeting vulnerable groups (based on vulnerability factors associated with 
age, gender, income etc. – instead putting emphasis on those at the receiving end of HIV transmission).  At 
that time, this debate was resolved in favor of the former approach.  As a result (and with the benefit of 
hindsight), it could be argued that the international community contributed, however inadvertently, to the 
stigma associated with HIV/AIDS as a disease, as well as to the stigmatization of infected individuals and 
groups.
Furthermore, during project implementation, the impact of targeting proved to be limited, despite the 
laudable efforts of SIDA and DANIDA to direct attention to this issue through dialogue, sensitization of 
staff, training, and inclusion of a gender specialist by SIDA on the Bank supervision missions.  In 
particular, a pre-project study found significant gender and age differences in perception of risk for HIV 
infection, with women and the youth being the most vulnerable.  Women were also found to be more 
vulnerable to STI and HIV transmission, comprise the majority of caregivers for PLWHA, and lag behind 
in both information and behavioral change.  In terms of vulnerability to disease transmission, as well as 
lags in information and behavioral change, the same could also be said of the youth.  Yet inadequate 
attention was given to their specific needs in the project design.  While STIP did make an attempt to 
address gender issues (e.g., by promoting female condoms) these initiatives had relatively limited success, 
and, as described later, this lack of success was reflected in the persistent gender differentials in HIV KAP 
and prevalence.  A more targeted approach to gender- and age- specific behavior change communication; 
more stringent use of gender and age disaggregated data (e.g., sexual debut, KAPB on ways to prevent 
HIV) to document project achievements, and enhanced support to women as home based caregivers and to 
the youth would have considerably strengthened the gender and age-specific dimensions of the project.  It 
should be acknowledged that, to the extent that NACP was an umbrella program of which STIP was but 
one component, the entire responsibility for the observed gender differentials should not be ascribed to the 
project.  Nevertheless, since it is widely acknowledged that STIP was the single most important financial 
contributor to HIV/AIDS efforts in Uganda at that time - and rightly deserves a significant share of credit 
for the overall success of the program - the project must also take significant responsibility for the 
- 7 -
Page  12
program’s not addressing these gender issues adequately.
Financial management and institutional capacity analysis:
  
Given Uganda’s political realities at the time 
of project design, the project appropriately placed significant emphasis on decentralized implementation at 
the district level.  At the same time, many stakeholders expressed concerns about the existing capacity at 
the national and district levels, as well as the sustainability of some of the project's components, given the 
recent initiation of a decentralized administration – perhaps expressed most forcefully by the Bank’s 
international partners.  These concerns were discussed at the various donor meetings with Bank staff, and 
were reflected in the appraisal report and also during the negotiation process.  Nevertheless, the project 
significantly underestimated the capacity constraints at the district level, at least at the beginning of the 
project. 
The established government financial management system was deemed by the Bank to be adequate to 
provide a steady flow of funds to the implementers at the district level.  However, with commencement of 
project implementation, the significant problems with the flow of funds to the implementing districts 
became obvious.  In the first two years of the project, financial management problems with delays in the 
issuance of authority to incur expenditures to the districts, the delays with accounting for the expended 
resources and the small size of the Project Special Account, all contributed to the slowing of the flow of 
funds.  These problems could have been mitigated if a detailed financial management assessment has been 
undertaken and an effective financial management system, with appropriate checks and balances, including 
a qualified financial management specialist had been in place early in the implementation process.
Readiness for implementation: 
 
Within the context of a rapidly evolving HIV/AIDS epidemic and 
resultant time constraints, the project was ready for implementation at the time of entry.  For example, by 
the time of project effectiveness, most key staff had also been put in place. Pragmatism dictated that some 
anticipated inadequacies in the project design be left to be evaluated and addressed during the supervision 
missions and mid-term review.  However, more could have been done at the time of project development to 
ease implementation and the disbursement of funds, even allowing for the considerable pressure on the 
project staff to move forward quickly in tackling the HIV epidemic.  For example, the project’s operational 
manuals had not been completed by the time of project effectiveness, which significantly slowed the 
implementation of the project.  An insistence on the completion of these operational manuals by the Bank 
would, in all likelihood, have significantly speeded up project implementation and disbursement.
Risk assessment and sustainability:  
As noted, one of the assumptions made at the time of project design 
made was that, with the Bank-supported Uganda First Health Project under the Ministry of Health (MOH) 
just having being completed, there were institutions that were cognizant with IDA procedures, and that – 
with some augmentation of capacities – would be able to manage the STIP project.  While this was true to 
some extent, the First Health Project had been a far less complex IDA operation, and, as it turned out, was 
not necessarily an adequate preparation for STIP - particularly in the areas of procurement and financial 
management.  The Bank also underestimated the extent of capacity building needed as well as the time 
required for it.
In fact, procurement problems, along with the management of supplies, turned out to be a major issue 
throughout the life of the project and despite significant improvements, these problems persisted at the time 
of project closing.  These procurement problems were particularly prominent at the beginning of the project 
and contributed to the very slow disbursement in the first two years of the project.  A proper assessment of 
procurement capacity and appropriate linkages to the logistics system at the initiation of the project, and 
the identification of appropriate options to address these issues, would have substantially streamlined 
project implementation.  Options such as the use of a procurement agent, while they were considered, were 
- 8 -
Page  13
not pursued seriously, primarily because the government believed that the use of an agent would hamper 
the building of procurement capacities within the public sector.  STIP also failed to recognize the inherent 
conflict between the profit-making objective of the semi-autonomous National Medical Stores (NMS) - 
which was retained by the project to undertake the procurement for the project - and the fact that the 
project was expecting the NMS to supply large volumes of drugs and supplies free of charge.  The absence 
of a clear agreement on the appropriate role of NMS in the public sector supply of drugs and an explicit 
policy on cost-recovery further aggravated the situation.  The handling charges of the NMS were often 
higher than the norm in most developing countries.  The NMS was also asked to take responsibility for 
coordinating the supply of drugs for the project, a role it failed to perform well.  Project procurement and 
logistics management was further weakened by the absence of a specific unit in the MOH that could be 
responsible for overall coordination of procurement and logistics management.
The project also seems to have underestimated the challenges associated with the decentralization process - 
particularly in relation to capacities at the district level.  To further aggravate matters, the DHSP - which 
was expected to address some of these institutional and capacity constraints - was not well-integrated and 
coordinated with STIP, despite the fact that the same PCO was responsible for the coordination of the two 
projects.  This hindered capacity building, and therefore the planning and disbursement of funds at district 
level.  To some extent, the emergency nature of STIP, which contrasted with the slow and incremental 
nature of any health sector reform effort, might have been responsible for the limited coordination. But this 
should have been anticipated and explicitly addressed at the project design phase itself.
The PCO provided commendable support to the project throughout implementation, which is reflected in 
the high rates of project disbursement and the achievement of most of the project’s objectives. Nevertheless, 
while the PCO was clearly a necessity at the beginning of the project, more energetic attempts could have 
been made to better integrate the PCO with the MOH, the NACP, and the UAC, later in the project.  In 
addition to furthering sustainability, such integration may have also addressed problematic issues such as 
the significant differences in the salary structures of the MOH and the PCO that created some resentment.  
In particular, as noted, in better integrating the PCO with the UAC, the project might have been able to 
reach out beyond the health sector, and provide encouragement to multisectoral initiatives.  
Miscellaneous.
  Although an environmental assessment was not conducted as the project was classified as 
category C, to its credit, the project identified the handling and disposal of infectious material and 
procurement of protective supplies for support.
Overall, the project's quality at entry is considered 
satisfactory
.
4.  Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1  
Outcome/achievement of objective:
In the early 1990s, when STIP was designed, Uganda as a country had the highest HIV prevalence and was 
just coming out from two decades of social strife.  STIP was an important component part of the overall 
national HIV/AIDS control effort, and made a significant financial contribution to AIDS control in Uganda 
(although exact figures are not available, most stakeholders interviewed during this review agreed that 
STIP was the single most important project supporting HIV interventions in the country from the mid 
1990s to 2000).  It is therefore reasonable to assume that the project made a significant contribution to 
Uganda's success in increased awareness of HIV/AIDS, increased availability and use of condoms and 
STD services, and, ultimately, in reversing the prevalence of HIV/AIDS in the general population in 
Uganda from over 15% in the early 1990s to 6.5% by the year 2001 (see details of the programmatic 
success in Annex 1)
.
- 9 -
Page  14
Annex 1 details these drops in both prevalence and incidence using various study designs and data sources 
in both rural and urban settings and in different risk groups.  Sustained reductions of HIV prevalence have 
been witnessed in:  (a) all Ante-Natal Care (ANC) sentinel sites both rural and urban; (b) among STD 
patients attending Mulago STD Clinic where prevalence reduced from 44.2% to 20.5% between 1989 and 
2000; and (c) among 15 - 24 year old first time voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) clients, where 
prevalence reduced from 11.1% to 3.7% and 29% to 10% between 1992 and 2001 among males and 
females respectively.  Disaggregation of data by age group in both urban and rural ANC sentinel sites 
reveals continuing declines in the age groups 15 - 19 years and 20 - 24 years, though the decline seems to 
be more pronounced in the 24 - 29 age group.  These findings are consistent with other research studies, 
including the population based cohort study carried out by Medical Research Council (MRC) in Masaka.  
The 1995 and 2000 UDHS, although not strictly comparable, reveal more or less universal HIV awareness.  
The 2000 UDHS reveals that two-thirds of Ugandans want to be tested.  However, the 2000 UDHS also 
seems to confirm the findings of community surveys that HIV awareness is not always matched by 
knowledge on ways to avoid contracting the disease, and even less so by actual behavioral change.
The project achieved all three objectives, although the most success was realized in prevention activities 
and in institutional development.  Specifically, the project was instrumental in:  (a) the raising and 
maintenance of the high level of awareness and the positive behavior change noted; (b) expansion of 
HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation activities countrywide; (c) development of HIV/AIDS policies and 
strategies; (d) provision of essential commodities like condoms, STI and TB drugs, and testing and 
diagnostic kits, including development of demand for STD and VCT services; (e) training of staff at district 
and central levels; and (f) institutionalization of NGO partnerships at the district level.  The project also 
strengthened the capacity of the AIDS Control Program and the District Health Services to plan, manage, 
and implement AIDS activities, and, to a limited extent, provided funding to other sectors, such as the 
army, police, prisons, legal, gender and agriculture.  Nevertheless, more could have been done towards 
developing approaches to increasing condom use within marriage in both discordant and non-discordant 
couples, to reach the poor and other high-risk groups more effectively, and to gender-disaggregated IEC 
messages.
A major bottleneck in the context of the prevention activities was the procurement of the Sound 
Broadcasting System - a contract that was inherited by STIP from the First Health Project.  Perhaps when 
the decision was first made to install the system, there were fewer FM stations in the country, and hence the 
establishment of radio capacity for health was warranted.  The decision to carry over the procurement from 
the First Health Project to STIP however seems less justified, particularly given the proliferation of FM 
radio stations in Uganda in the last several years.  Despite attempts by both the Bank and the government 
to resolve this issue, the problems with the contract persisted for over eight years, and had not been fully 
resolved even at the time of STIP’s closing.  Indeed, the problems associated with the installation of a 
Sound Broadcasting System proved to be a major impediment to the smooth implementation of STIP, and 
resulted in three separate project extensions, despite the successful completion of most project activities.  
This raises the additional question of whether project extensions were the best way for the Bank to deal 
with this situation. With significant resources having been expended on this installation and with the major 
part of the work having been accomplished, the Bank is now finding it difficult to deny funding for the 
installation from one of the ongoing Bank-supported projects – thereby raising the possibility of the 
procurement spilling over into a third IDA project.
A further significant shortcoming of the project was the failure to maintain regular supplies of commodities 
due to weak procurement and logistic management.  This undermined the quality of STD treatment and the 
availability of condoms, as the agreed amounts of STD drugs and condoms were not always procured in a 
- 10 -
Page  15
timely manner to ensure regular availability of the commodities.
With the exception of STD management the project met or exceeded several SAR set targets.  For example:
Over 90% of the target population is able to cite two acceptable ways of protection from HIV 
l
against the target 50% using national data (UDHS 1995 and 2000/01).
Condom use increase exceeded the target of 50%.  Between 1995 and 1998 condom use with a 
l
non-regular sexual partner increased from 34.3% to 66.7% in selected KAPB studies in 3-5 
districts (2002 Surveillance Report).
Reported casual sex partnerships declined from 14.3% to 6.6% or a 43.2% achievement against the 
l
target of 20%, according to the KAPB studies mentioned above, and tracked in the annual 
HIV/AIDS Surveillance Reports.
In addition to the above SAR indicators, STIP also yielded other benefits.  For example:
The age at first sexual intercourse has increased; selected non-gender disaggregated KAPB studies 
l
show an overall increase from 14 to 16.4 years between 1990 and 1996, with later debuts in rural 
areas.  In 2000, the same KAPB studies show the age of sexual debut to be 16.5 years.  Further 
analysis, however, suggests that the increase in sexual debut at the national level has been 
primarily amongst males, and furthermore appears to have plateaued since 1996.
In contrast to these commendable achievements, however, only 20% of individuals seeking STD care in 
1998 (the latest year for which reliable data was available) received appropriate STD case management, 
compared to 14.3% in 1996 in limited studies of STD clinics. While this represents a marginal 
improvement, it falls far short of the SAR target of 70%.   Furthermore, as discussed in detail in Annex 1, 
there are marked socio-economic and gender differentials in both knowledge and practice, and some 
evidence of a plateau effect in these outcomes.  These are also discussed within the specific components.
Overall, despite some of the problems detailed above and given the significant role played by STIP in 
furthering the success of Uganda’s HIV/AIDS control efforts, the project outcome is rated as 
satisfactory
.
4.2  
Outputs by components:
Prevention of Sexual Transmission of HIV
 
Prevention of HIV transmission was the cornerstone of Uganda's HIV control strategy, since HIV/AIDS 
once contracted is fatal; due attention was therefore given to it during project design and implementation.  
The key interventions under this component comprised of:  promotion of safer sexual behavior, condom 
procurement, and provision of care and treatment of STDs.
Promotion of safer sexual behavior
:  The project design and implementation recognized the challenges 
involved in modifying human behavior, and employed a range of interventions involving both the public and 
the private sector to promote safer sexual behavior.  The project sustained and broadened the scope of IEC 
through the mass media; production and dissemination of HIV/AIDS documentaries, leaflets and posters; 
targeted behavioral interventions in high risk populations like the military and police; and community 
mobilization activities such as village meetings, drama, video/film shows and training of counseling aides.  
Capacity at district and national levels to undertake IEC activities was built through the training of 
implementers and the provision of IEC equipment, including film vans.  Although the tender to procure and 
- 11 -
Page  16
install sound broadcasting equipment (for 8 FM Radio Stations) was not completed at project closing, with 
liberalization of electronic media, there are now over 50 FM Radio Stations that can be used to air health 
(including HIV/AIDS) messages.  Finally, with project support, an HIV/AIDS IEC Strategy was developed 
to refocus IEC, in light of the experience and changing trends of the epidemic within the country.  To a 
large extent, the project contributed to the high level of awareness, reduction of stigma associated with 
AIDS, and the adoption of safer sexual practices, especially by the 15 - 24 year olds achieved in Uganda.
In the beginning, IEC activities met a number of challenges; most notably, the delays in project start up due 
to slow disbursement of funds, inadequate transportation, and resistance to dissemination of sex-related 
IEC messages.  The fear that reports of declining prevalence would lead to complacency was another major 
challenge.  These were overcome through open dialogue among and between different stakeholders and the 
preparation and implementation of the IEC strategy.  IEC still remains the cornerstone of Uganda's strategy 
and the greatest challenge in the medium term confronting government is to sustain the IEC activities.  For 
now, through government funds and the IDA-supported Uganda AIDS Control Program, a portion of IEC 
activities is being financed.
Condom promotion
:  From 1988 to 1995, WHO’s Global Program on AIDS, USAID, and UNFPA 
procured condoms for the country.  STIP represented the first opportunity for government to procure - but 
due to the complexities of the IDA procurement procedures, and the inexperience of the National Medical 
Stores - the first procurement took more than 18 months, and led to a complete stockout during the first 
months of 1999.  Emergency assistance provided by KfW, and later by DfiD, was instrumental in helping 
Uganda tide over these crises.  However, it should be noted once these challenges were overcome, the 
project was more successful in procuring and distributing high quality condoms through a variety of 
channels including social marketing.  This success contributed to significantly increasing condom demand.  
Thus, while in 1996, 45 million condoms were distributed, by 2002 this had increased to nearly 78 million 
of which about 45% were socially marketed (MOH, MSI).
Two social marketing NGOs (Marie Stopes International [MSI] and SOMARC) were funded to market 
male condoms. In addition, MSI received support to market the female condoms.  To manage condom 
logistics, a Condom Coordinating Unit was established in the Ministry of Health and focal persons selected 
in districts.  In total, STIP procured 154 .70 million condoms out of the 190.56 million procured during the 
project period in Uganda.  Though at appraisal, the project was committed to procuring 424.4 million 
condoms, a subsequent assessment concluded that only 200 million condoms would need to be procured by 
the project. By 2001, condom use and demand had increased substantially especially among the youth, with 
the annual uptake estimated to exceed 50 million condoms, of which 45%were through social marketing.  
There is currently, an adequate supply of condoms.  The distribution of the last consignment of condoms 
procured under STIP (30 million) is underway to the districts. An additional 110 million condoms are being 
procured through government budgetary sources and the Uganda AIDS Control Project. Under the social 
marketing program, another 45 million Life Guard condoms are to be procured over a four year period by 
KfW.  These condoms are projected to last until December 2003. Beyond the current supply, the MOH has 
made provisions for procurement of condoms under the government budget and the Uganda AIDS Control 
Project.
Initially, there were a lot of problems with the quantification, procurement and distribution of condoms as 
the MOH had little prior experience, which resulted in frequent stock outs and the use of emergency 
procurement methods.  Though the problems were partly resolved through technical assistance and training 
of Ministry of Health staff, they are not wholly resolved as serious shortages are still experienced.  During 
the ICR mission it was learned that a number of districts in the northern part of the country experienced 
serious condom shortages over the last few months despite condom availability in the National Medical 
- 12 -
Page  17
Stores.  Condom quantification, procurement and distribution will continue to need strengthening given that 
demand for condoms has increased substantially and that condom non-availability is now the main reason 
for their non-use.  The other key challenge, which remains under discussion, is balancing private 
distribution of condoms against public distribution.  For the time being, however, the government considers 
condom distribution as critical to the prevention of HIV/AIDS, and thus deserving of public funding.   
A continued challenge is increasing the distribution of condoms in rural areas where access is currently 
poor.  Evidently, the MOH/ACP and MSI may collaborate on a joint social marketing and public sector 
strategy to reach this underserved group.
Provision of care and treatment of STDs
:  A strategic plan for management of STDs was developed with 
assistance from WHO and the CDC.  Promotion of STD care seeking was carried out as part of the IEC 
activities and resulted in an increased demand for STD care.  The provision of effective STD care included 
the provision of STI drugs, syphilis screening, and the training of health care providers in the management 
of patients with STDs using the syndromic approach, which was adopted due to the shortage of laboratory 
facilities in many of the health units.  Drugs were provided for STDs, although to a lesser extent than 
originally envisaged due to the supply of these drugs from other donors.  It should be noted that part of this 
supply from other donors - e.g., from DFID - was secured as a stopgap measure when there were delays in 
IDA procurement.  Other drugs supplied were new donations to the Government, that came in after the 
project was underway.  However, due to weak procurement and logistics management, regular and 
adequate supplies of STD drugs could not be maintained.  As such, only 20% instead of the SAR target of 
70% of clients seeking STD care were able to receive appropriate care as STD drugs were in many 
instances out of stock.  Furthermore, inadequate attention was paid to gender issues in the syndromic 
treatment of STDs, which contributed to significant gender differentials.  More attention to gender in the 
syndromic treatment of STD, including support for more research in this area, might have considerably 
mitigated the observed gender bias in the syndromic treatment.
The weak capacity for procurement and logistics management proved to be a critical challenge that led to 
delays and shortages of STI drugs.  This was most serious during the first two years of the project, when 
the MOH had to seek emergency supplies from other donors.  A notable problem related to the drugs was 
the unforeseen problem of the formulation of bid documents that resulted in different delivery dates for 
drugs that had to be available in combination at health facilities.  Another problem was the physical as well 
as ethical difficulties involved in ensuring that STI drugs (such as antibiotics, which could also be used to 
treat other diseases) were used only to treat STIs, when there were severe shortages of drugs at health 
facilities.  It should be noted, though, that lessons from the initial procurements were applied, and training 
of district-based staff in drug quantification and distribution were undertaken, which significantly speeded 
up the procurement and distribution of subsequent project tenders.
In addition to procurement issues, the need to provide adequate funds for STD management was also 
critical.  District Directors of Health Services, whom the mission met, indicated that the STD drugs are 
expensive and it had been almost impossible to provide for them in their budget allocation.  They also 
indicated that for districts that depend only on PHC Conditional Grants (PHCCG), the current funding 
levels for drugs at the district are grossly inadequate. 
The other key challenge was the caliber of the cadres at the Health Center level.  The majority does not 
have formal training, and as such are not well equipped to manage STI and other diseases.  The Mid Term 
Review had recommended that plans for continued health worker training, and follow up supervision in 
STD management, as well as stronger involvement with the private sector were needed as a priority – this 
remains the case.  It was also recommended that antenatal syphilis screening needed to be reinforced, which 
- 13 -
Page  18
is also true currently.
The government realizes the urgency of these financing, procurement, and training issues, and has recently 
initiated a reform program to address them.  However, many of these initiatives could have been better 
supported as part of the implementation of STIP.
Overall, despite the problems with ensuring drug access, because of the substantial success of the 
prevention efforts - including condom use - the implementation of this component is rated as 
satisfactory
.
Mitigation of the personal impact of AIDS
 
As the AIDS epidemic matured in Uganda, it overstretched the existing hospital capacity and increased the 
demand for social and counseling services that could not be provided by government facilities.  The project 
was therefore designed to (a) support case management of patients with HIV/AIDS and other opportunistic 
infections, and (b) support home based care and social support for people living with HIV/AIDS.  
Training of staff and provision of drugs for management of HIV/AIDS patients and support to tuberculosis 
diagnosis and case management
:  Training was provided to health care workers through a number of 
operational level (OPL) courses, with emphasis on clinical management of HIV/AIDS, patient care, 
counseling and continuum of care.  The guidelines on the continuum of care were reviewed with technical 
assistance from WHO, and were instrumental in improving the referral system for AIDS patients.  Drugs 
and supplies for management of AIDS patients were procured by the project and provided to the 
government and the non-government health units.  The project supported activities for the management of 
TB in 26 districts, including the provision of drugs and diagnostics, training of health workers in proper 
case management of TB, support supervision, and expansion of Directly Observed Treatment (DOTS).  
The National TB Control Strategy that guided implementation of the sub-component was developed with 
technical assistance from WHO.  The increasingly strong links between the TB and HIV programs, and the 
overall behavioral change, have contributed to the drops in HIV positivity amongst smear positive HIV 
patients from 60% in 1989 to 43% in 1997.  Treatment success rates (cure and completion) are now 60%, 
still well below the WHO target of 85%, but improving.  However, the links between the programs need to 
be further strengthened; the evidence suggests that there have been shortages of some drugs (e.g., 
pyrazinamide was stocked out in July 2000).
Provision of Support for Community and Home Based Care and Social Support to People Living With 
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA)
:  Counseling as a supportive service, which was mainly provided by NGOs and 
community based organizations (CBOs) was also supported by the project.  Home visiting to provide care 
to PLWHA was also carried out in all districts.  Social support was provided through the training of 
counselors at various levels of the health care system and in the community.  In the beginning, communities 
were supported in a number of districts to set up income generating activities to support PLWHA or those 
affected.  It was soon realized that these activities were not sustainable and were abandoned.  Instead, 
support was provided through CBOs and networks of PLWHAs, in order to strengthen community 
mobilization and Home Based Care initiatives around HIV/AIDS.  These partly contributed to the reduced 
social stigma, improvements in the quality AIDS care, and the general well being of people with AIDS in 
the absence of anti-retroviral drugs.  Anecdotal evidence points to continued improvements in the quality of 
life as well as in life expectancy of AIDS patients.  More, however, needs to be done in terms of increasing 
coverage and scope of home based care and strengthening the linkages with the referral system.
Overall, given the focus of the component primarily on individuals - rather than at the household and 
population level, and on the sectoral and macroeconomic impacts (as discussed above) - the implementation 
- 14 -
Page  19
of this component is rated as only 
marginally satisfactory
.
Institutional Development
  
Strengthening of National and District Capacity
:  Capacity building of both the districts and the central 
level in the management covered a number of broad areas:  IEC, health education and health promotion, 
STDs, monitoring and evaluation, TB, infection control and patient care.  Various elements of capacity 
building including technical training in service provision have been discussed within each of the main 
program areas above.  In addition capacity building included strengthening of the district health teams in 
supervision, management, planning, monitoring and evaluation, surveillance and operational research.  In 
this regard, the provision - through SIDA - of a Financial Management Advisor to assist districts was 
found to be particularly useful by the district authorities, as well as by the PCO. 
As a result, districts have developed a good foundation for planning and coordination of district level 
activities, although staff turnover continues to be a problem and capacity development has not been 
uniform across districts.  Since the project was introduced in phases to districts, it is evident that districts in 
Phase 1 and II of the project have stronger capacity and are better placed to take advantage of opportunities 
(such as from the Uganda AIDS Control Project) to scale up.  A notable achievement has been the 
development of strong collaboration with NGOs.  The latter have also benefited from the capacity building 
provided to the public system and have also had their programs funded.  
However, for the most part, the project made relatively few investments in HIV/AIDS efforts in other 
sectors.  It was only in 1999, towards the latter part of the project - which not coincidentally corresponded 
with the preparations for the new Bank-supported Uganda AIDS Control Project – that STIP began 
financing the HIV/AIDS activities of other line ministries, and, to some extent, the UAC.  By all accounts, 
it would seem that this support, particularly to the UAC, were relatively small and were not as enthusiastic 
as might have been warranted.  Nevertheless, with STIP funding, surveillance and operational research 
were strengthened and continue to provide useful information for realigning the national response to 
changing circumstances.  Medical equipment, IEC supplies, office supplies, computers, and vehicles 
including film vans, general-purpose vehicles, motorcycles, and bicycles were also provided to enhance 
different aspects of the program.
Improved services for special target groups: army, police and prisons
:  Training of trainers, condom 
distribution and IEC has been carried out for the army (UPDF), police and prisons.  The Ministry of Health 
NACP has had a strong relationship guiding these other sectors in their HIV strategy.   STIP represented a 
major opportunity for these groups to set up their respective AIDS programs.  However, the linkages 
between the programs for these special groups and that for the general population are far from optimal, and 
could have been significantly strengthened through project support.
Surveillance
:  While the project found the surveillance system to be already well developed, it provided 
continued support by way of quality assurance and refresher training in order to ensure that the data 
generated by the surveillance system was of high quality.  Support was provided for the operationalization 
of second-generation surveillance, which aims to validate the ANC serosurveillance data with community 
based surveys, and incorporate data from other sources (such as VCT sites, STD clinics, health facilities, 
the TB program, blood bank, and research studies) to monitor the AIDS impact.  In addition, a number of 
operational research studies received funding from the project.  These have ensured that Uganda currently 
has one of the most robust HIV/AIDS records in Sub Saharan Africa. 
Innovative NGO Activities
:  The Government of Uganda recognizes the role of NGOs and CBOs, who 
- 15 -
Page  20
have made a big contribution to Uganda's success in the fight against AIDS.  The project supported various 
NGOs either at the national or at the district level to undertake those activities that the government was 
least equipped to provide.  These included the provision of community and home based care, voluntary 
counseling and testing, social support services, and IEC messages.  Many of the activities were initiated as 
small-scale innovations, which were later expanded to other districts with project support.
Overall, STIP built considerable capacity to cope with HIV/AIDS among civil society actors both at the 
national and district levels, and the Bank played a significant role in helping the government to translate its 
openness towards NGOs into a genuine partnership.  The challenge is to maintain this capacity so as to be 
able to respond ably to the rapidly evolving HIV/AIDS environment.  In addition, the NGOs and CBOs that 
the project supported implemented programs across sectors, necessitating enhanced coordination of various 
sectoral actors.  STIP, however, had little success overall in addressing the multisectorality issue.  Under 
the new Uganda AIDS Control Project - quite appropriately - the UAC is being supported to coordinate the 
national response, and works with both the public and private sectors, and with the donors.   However, 
because of the large number of actors at various levels, and the fact that the UAC still needs to be 
significantly strengthened, this remains a major challenge.
With the STIP funding of capacity building activities coming to an end, districts are continuing to include 
some of the capacity building activities in their work plans for funding using the PHCCG and the Uganda 
AIDS Control Project.  ACP has been able to continue ANC and STD sentinel surveillance activities in 20 
sites.  The information generated will form part of the 2002 June Surveillance Report.  Given the expansion 
of the demand for services and turnover in staff, capacity building will need to be sustained in order to 
provide a strong base for an expanded response.  Funds for maintenance of equipment and the replacement 
of the equipment as they become obsolete will also be necessary.   
Overall, the implementation of this component is rated as 
satisfactory
.
4.3  
Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A NPV/ERR was not calculated for the project.
4.4  
Financial rate of return:
A FRR was not calculated for the project.
4.5  
Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is 
high
. 
As highlighted earlier, within the public sector, the project was instrumental in enhancing the capacities of 
the Ministry of Health and AIDS Control Program at the central level, and of the district administrations, 
by supporting short and long-term training, monitoring and evaluation, and the development of appropriate 
HIV/AIDS policies and strategies. In addition, the partnership with NGOs at the central and district level 
greatly improved the capacity of the districts to confront HIV.  Furthermore, with project support, 
implementation of the AIDS Multi Sectoral Program was initiated, and is now supported under a new 
Bank-supported project – the Uganda AIDS Control Project - under the Uganda AIDS Commission.  All 
this has enabled the government to keep pace with the changing AIDS scenario and its impact.
In the private sector, the project facilitated an active collaboration between the government at all levels and 
the NGO/CBO community, as well as the development of capacities within civil society organizations.  
This collaboration, as mentioned above, might have been the single most important factor in the success of 
Uganda in reversing the course of the HIV epidemic.  In addition, the project gave a substantial boost to 
- 16 -
Page  21
social marketing efforts (e.g., of condoms) within the health sector.  The project, admittedly, had less 
success in enlisting the private for-profit sector, including private practitioners, in the fight against HIV, 
but still enabled lessons to be learned on how to work with these individuals and institutions. 
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1
Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Three key factors that affected project implementation were:
A political insurgency, that negatively affected project implementation, as well as the absorptive 
l
capacity of selected districts in northern and western Uganda;
Closure of the Commercial Bank holding the Special Account, which totally disrupted Project 
l
activities between March and July 1999.  As a result of the Bank closure, procurements stalled and 
special commitments expired, as did Letters of Credit and Performance Guarantees.  All these 
processes had to be redone, as was the opening of another Special Account in Stanbic Bank.  This 
prompted the need to extend the Project Completion date by 12 months.  While this latter event 
might not have been foreseen, it nevertheless suggests that the criteria for the selection of 
commercial banks for Special Accounts needs to be scrutinized, revised if necessary, and strictly 
adhered to; and
Despite commendable collaboration among certain donors, the overall reluctance of the donor 
l
community to look beyond individual vertical programs, and come together in the development of 
common strategies and the pooling of resources in HIV/AIDS control programs, in the way that it 
has been able to do with the recent PRSC and health sector SWAP.
5.2
Factors generally subject to government control:
It is important to consider the fact that project implementation commenced at a time when the 
l
Ugandan government was undertaking various public sector reforms - most notably the 
decentralization policy and the civil service reform.  These policy changes were to heavily affect 
project implementation in districts with low capacity, particularly the newly created ones.  These 
were usually districts with poor physical infrastructure, low human resource-base, as well as few 
NGOs and CBOs.  Capacity building efforts through the project and health sector were less 
successful than might have been expected as many of the gaps were outside the health sector.  This 
was further compounded by the fact that no new recruitment could take place because of the 
recruitment ban.
Some of the items procured under STIP, like vehicles, IEC equipment etc., were dutiable under the 
l
Ugandan tax regulations.  Furthermore, before condoms were re-classified as medical products 
they were liable for taxation.  In general, processing of taxes and clearing of imported goods took a 
long time and, as a result, heavy demurrage charges often accrued.
If problems, such as the one associated with the installation of the Sound Broadcasting system, are 
l
to be alleviated, the Country Portfolio Performance Reviews (CPPRs) need to be used effectively, 
and systems and guidelines that clearly outline the roles of senior management at the Bank and the 
client government need to be developed, to address persistent procurement problems.
The issue of mutually agreed upon counterpart funding not being made available seems to have 
l
become a systemic feature of projects in Uganda, and STIP was no exception.  Although the issue 
- 17 -
Page  22
of counter part funding was discussed in every CPPR, it has remained a perennial problem that 
continued to impede successful project implementation, and also negatively impacted project 
sustainability.
On the positive side, the open policy of government and strong commitment to HIV/AIDS 
l
encouraged the participation of various partners in program implementation and resulted in the 
mobilization of additional resources for HIV/AIDS.  The approach taken by the Government of 
Uganda in working with faith-based organizations in promoting HIV interventions and at the same 
address their sensitivities (i.e., through the “quiet condom promotion” approach) is particularly 
noteworthy in this regard.  Furthermore, the reform of the electronic media and the promotion of 
press freedom by the government gave a major boost to the IEC efforts of the project, enabling 
sensitive issues such as condom use to be discussed freely and promoted successfully.  Overall, the 
political commitment and leadership shown by the Ugandan government should serve as a model to 
other developing countries grappling with this global epidemic.
5.3
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Delays in the procurement of commodities - particularly drugs and condoms - interfered with planned 
l
project programs, particularly in the early stages of implementation.  This was largely due to the 
persistently weak government capacity for procurement and logistics management, which resulted in 
poor contract management, long procurement cycles, and delayed deliveries.  However, the option of 
using a procurement agency was, on more than one occasion, rejected on the basis that this would be 
detrimental to building capacity within the public sector in Uganda.  Nor were other options to 
strengthen procurement - such as appropriate reform of the NMS or the use of an alternative agency 
for overseeing procurement - adequately explored.  Furthermore, frequently resorting to emergency 
procurements increased the risks of a failure in quality assurance.
Secondly, the paucity of financial management and contract management capacities at the MOH and 
l
district level were major impediments to smooth project implementation.
Thirdly, the irregular and inadequate release of funds to Districts Accounts significantly slowed district 
l
activities.  Though this was partly addressed by increasing the level of the Project Special Account the 
long accountability cycle (over 3 months) hampered the ability of various implementers (Districts, 
NGOs and CBOs) to provide timely accountability to ensure that the Project Special Account was 
adequately replenished.  A useful lesson in this context is that projects working with decentralized and 
community-based organizations, such as STIP, require measures of accountability that respond better 
to local capacity and that stimulate an appropriate focus on outcomes instead of inputs.  Such 
measures of accountability should be identified and agreed upon by the Bank and the Borrower during 
the design of operations.
As noted above, the monitoring and evaluation of the project, in sharp contrast to the monitoring of the 
l
HIV/AIDS program in Uganda, was poor during the design and implementation stages of the project.  
Despite attention having been drawn to this issue during Bank supervision missions and the Mid Term 
evaluation, progress was relatively limited on this front.  The fact that a viable and effective monitoring 
and evaluation framework that is mutually agreed upon at the time of project preparation is a must for 
the effective implementation and evaluation of a project can hardly be overemphasized, and should 
have been paid greater attention by the PCO.
5.4
Costs and financing:
Despite considerable disbursement lags (i.e., approximately 96.4% of project funds) during the first half of 
- 18 -
Page  23
the project implementation, 97.4% of IDA% of Credit funds had been disbursed prior to closing.  The 
initial delays were a result of weak capacity for procurement and logistics management that resulted in poor 
contract management, long procurement cycles and delayed deliveries.  In contrast, the category “Training, 
Research and Monitoring” expended US$ 14.52 million against US$ 8.33 million planned in the SAR.
6.  Sustainability
6.1
Rationale for sustainability rating:
It is useful to consider the sustainability of STIP in terms of the program as well as in terms of the 
financing. 
The project’s programmatic sustainability is rated as 
highly likely
.  The main factors which favor project 
sustainability include:  Uganda’s 15 years of experience with implementing AIDS programs, government 
leadership and commitment to the AIDS crisis, the strong continuing participation of the civil society in 
HIV/AIDS initiatives, and the openness of the society to AIDS issues – all of which have contributed to the 
well-documented success of the HIV/AIDS program in Uganda.  Uganda has, to a large extent, developed 
the capacity at both district and central level to manage AIDS programs, in addition to an enabling 
environment in which AIDS issues are openly discussed, both of which portend well for the future.  The 
leadership role now being played by the Uganda AIDS Commission, which is coordinating action against 
AIDS across sectors, is also likely to contribute significantly to program sustainability. 
Financial sustainability, on the other hand, is far less certain, and must be rated as 
unlikely
, based on the 
current situation.  With the low level of available resources, the key risk to Uganda is maintaining the flow 
of funds to HIV and STI programs, including for the purchase of drugs.  The end of the STIP project saw a 
significant decrease in the resources available for the control of HIV and STI in virtually every district.  
While funding continued to be made available for some HIV activities through the Poverty Action Funds 
(PAFs), these funds were primarily directed at facilities, and failed to maintain resource flows to the 
community-based institutions and initiatives.  This raises major questions about the Bank’s decision to be 
the sole financier of large quantities of STI drugs, without a clear plan for sustaining this funding through 
the government or other donors.  STIP should also have made more forceful attempts to include STI drugs 
in the national essential drugs list so that these drugs would be supplied through the regular public sector 
supply channels, rather than through a separate vertical channel.  In the medium term, of course, it is 
expected that the funding will be maintained through the Uganda AIDS Control Project, the Global Fund 
for AIDS, TB and Malaria, as well as the PRSC, which is providing budget support to the health sector.  
The threat of complacency and loss of commitment because of the present success poses a challenge which 
government has recognized and is trying to address.  However, overall, the heavy reliance of the 
government in the health sector on donor funds is problematic and the government will need to make 
energetic attempts in the future to address this issue.
Overall, the project sustainability is considered 
likely
.
6.2
Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project activities were already integrated into the regular operations of the MOH and the districts, 
which minimized the need for special transition arrangements.   As such, no special transition arrangements 
are envisaged.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1
Lending:
The Bank performance was 
satisfactory
 at identification and preparation phases.  At the identification 
- 19 -
Page  24
phase, the project clearly documented the critical HIV/AIDS related issues.  During preparation, the Bank 
fielded an 8-person team with a comprehensive skill mix.  The objectives of the project were consistent with 
Government of Uganda's priorities in addressing the scourge of AIDS, as reflected in the National 
Operational Plan and the Health Sector White Paper. At the same, the Bank built partnerships with other 
development partners in supporting AIDS activities, some of which funded the pre-investment studies and 
later on agreed to co-finance the project.  Technically, the project was not too complicated, and provided a 
detailed analysis and review of AIDS and other related issues in the country.  The preparation benefited 
from the experience of the government, as documented in several technical reports, of the WHO/GPA, and 
of other donor projects including previous IDA projects.  The changing role of the government arising from 
decentralization, the increasing role of NGOs, and the linkages with existing donor programs support were 
reviewed and incorporated during preparation.
At appraisal, the Bank's performance was 
marginally satisfactory
.  Project institutional arrangements at 
the center and districts, the phasing of project implementation, the role of NGOs, the linkages with existing 
HIV/AIDS programs supported by other development partners were all reviewed and agreed to with the 
government.  Key relevant safeguard policies were discussed and agreed with the government, including the 
necessary actions to ensure successful project implementation.
However, there was a serious underestimation of the capacity enhancement needed in such areas as 
procurement planning and financial management.  Operational manuals were not prepared until well into 
project implementation, resulting in insufficient guidance being provided to the districts.  The complexity 
and demands of the District Monitoring and Evaluation Matrix developed at appraisal hindered the regular 
collection of data, and especially data specific to the project.  Partly as a result, the matrix was not used 
rigorously in the monitoring of the project.
7.2
Supervision:
The Bank's performance was 
satisfactory
 as the Bank met the majority of its formal supervision 
requirements during project implementation.  There were a total of ten adequately spaced supervision 
missions over the period of project implementation.  The Bank was also able to develop good rapport and 
working relations with the government team.  This ensured the adequate follow-up of agreed upon actions, 
and the early resolution of emerging issues.  The supervision missions, however, could have done more in 
terms of facilitating an effective M&E system for the project, and striving more energetically for options to 
address the procurement and financial management issues.  It should be acknowledged, though, that some 
of the problems identified by the supervision missions were not resolved due to factors outside the control 
of the MOH (e.g., the weak capacity of selected districts and the issue of counterpart funding).  However, 
to some extent, this fact only underlines the failure of the Bank to further a comprehensive multisectoral 
approach to AIDS control in Uganda through STIP.
In the initial years, supervision missions involving comprehensive teams took on average two weeks.  This 
ensured adequate support was given to the PCO and other implementers and emerging problems resolved 
promptly.  Though, the duration and composition of supervision missions was to reduce markedly in last 
two years due to budgetary constraints the recruitment of a health specialist in the country office ensured 
continuous support to the PCO.
7.3
Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was 
satisfactory
.
Borrower
7.4
Preparation:
- 20 -
Page  25
The Borrower's performance in lending is rated as 
satisfactory
.  During preparation, the Borrower provided 
the necessary leadership and support to the Bank that facilitated project development.  The availability of 
the National Operational Plan and Health Sector Three Year Plan developed with active participation of 
stakeholders was especially beneficial.  The Borrower facilitated wide participation of stakeholders in 
preparation including the development partners.  Because of this initiative, the government was able to raise 
US$ 16 million from other donors to co-finance the project.
7.5
Government implementation performance:
The government's overall performance is rated as 
satisfactory
.  This is based on the fact that government 
fulfilled nearly all the key conditions of the loan.  Over the life of the project, the government maintained its 
leadership and commitment to AIDS, which greatly contributed to success of the project.  However, the 
government could have done better in terms of counterpart funding and the management of procurement 
contracts.
7.6
Implementing Agency:
The performance of the Implementing Agency is rated as 
satisfactory
.  The competent leadership from the 
PCO boosted the implementation of project activities, including the compilation and preparation of timely 
and comprehensive reports, especially at district level.  While there were substantial delays with 
procurement and disbursement in the early stages of project implementation, once the PCO had familiarized 
itself with IDA procedures, these issues were resolved, to a significant extent, resulting in improved 
disbursement and project implementation.
7.7
Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is assessed as 
satisfactory
.
8. 
Lessons Learned
In the course of project implementation several key lessons have been learned:
The success of an HIV/AIDS project depends very much on national commitment and leadership. 
l
STIP found a conducive environment where the government was committed to the fight against 
AIDS, a strong national AIDS control program, and a large number of active civil society 
organizations already involved in HIV/AIDS programs – all vital ingredients in Uganda’s 
successful fight against HIV.  These factors enabled the project to be executed through existing 
public institutions and civil society organizations, instead of through newly created structures.  
Looking to the future, the importance of strengthening coordination and partnerships at all levels 
cannot be over emphasized in view of the large number of stakeholders.  In Uganda's case virtually 
all the key donors have HIV/AIDS programs, and it is estimated that there are over 2000 NGOs 
engaged in AIDS programs.  A key challenge with regard to these civil society actors is how to 
maximize the reach of the program without compromising the quality, accountability, and 
achievements of the program.
STIP was implemented at a time when Uganda had just embarked on an ambitious decentralization 
l
agenda that sought to devolve the responsibility for the planning and implementation of essential 
public services, including health, to the district administrations.  Such devolution of power presents 
several challenges for the design and implementation of Bank-supported sectoral projects, that need 
to be recognized and effectively managed, but that were significantly underestimated by the project.  
These challenges include, 
inter alia
:  (a) Building and sustaining capacity in the decentralized 
entities, targeting the weak district in particular, (b) Ensuring an equitable distribution of resources 
– financial, technical and human - across the decentralized units, and (c) Ensuring that the 
- 21 -
Page  26
decentralized decision making on the allocation of resources across various sectors by district 
administrations does not compromise the channeling of funds intended for health to the sector (as 
was the case prior to the initiation of conditional grants during project implementation by the 
central government in Uganda).
STIP was also implemented at a time when various other public sector reform measures were being 
l
implemented, some which had a direct impact on HIV/AIDS programs.  In these situations, it is 
critical that the project requirements are appropriately harmonized with other ongoing or planned 
public sector reform initiatives.  Indeed, to be fully effective, reform efforts within the health sector 
need to explicitly recognize the politics and political economy of the sector (such as the viability of 
user fees, hospital autonomy, the geographical distribution of health facilities, etc.); the potential 
constraints imposed by other ongoing reforms (such as the reform of the Ugandan civil service); the 
need to coordinate health sector reform efforts with initiatives in other sectors - particularly those 
with a direct bearing on outcomes in the health sector (such as initiatives in the education sector); 
the need for a proper sequencing of various reform initiatives and investments within the sector and 
across sectors; and the time required for complex reform initiatives to produce tangible outcomes.
HIV/AIDS poses a serious challenge to existing public procurement capacity of a country, in view 
l
of the massive procurement requirements of HIV/AIDS related commodities.  Capacity for public 
procurement of HIV/AIDS related commodities needs to be assessed early and the necessary 
agreements reached with government to ensure early commencement of procurement activities.  A 
clear understanding of the drug import and regulatory framework needs to be understood well in 
advance to avoid award of contracts for procurement of drugs that are not registered in the 
country. Overall, the importance of planning and preparation of procurements, and ensuring 
appropriate linkages to logistics, cannot be overemphasized.  A procurement capacity assessment 
as early in project or program development as possible should not be seen in isolation from 
subsequent procurement planning and preparation.
Projects working with multiple implementing partners, such as districts, sub-district entities and 
l
CBOs/FBOs/NGOs need to make multiple advances to these implementing partners and thus 
require a correspondingly larger Special Account.  The criteria for the selection of commercial 
banks for the location of Special Accounts should also be scrutinized, revised if necessary, and 
strictly adhered to.
The issue of mutually agreed upon counterpart funding not forthcoming has become a systemic 
l
feature of projects in Uganda, and need to be equally addressed in a more systemic manner, rather 
than on a project-by-project basis.
A viable and effective monitoring and evaluation framework that is mutually agreed upon at the 
l
time of project preparation is a must for the effective implementation and evaluation of a project.  
In the design of the M&E system, it is also important that the Bank and borrower are clear about 
"the program" as well as about the "IDA-supported project", especially when the achievement of 
the stated Development Objectives of the IDA lending operation are intertwined with the 
implementation of a broader program.  Accordingly, the project should design appropriate program 
monitoring and project monitoring indicators, and also describe the arrangements for joint reviews 
of the program by the collaborating partners.  Furthermore, projects such as STIP that work with 
decentralized and community-based organizations require measures of accountability that respond 
better to local capacity and that stimulate an appropriate focus on outcomes instead of inputs.  
Such measures of accountability should be identified and agreed upon by the Bank and the 
- 22 -
Page  27
Borrower during the design of operations.
Women are biologically more vulnerable to the infection, comprise the majority of caregivers for 
l
PLWHA, and lag behind in both information and behavioral change.  While the STI project did 
attempt to address gender issues (e.g., by promoting female condoms) these initiatives have had 
relatively limited success.  A more targeted approach to gender-specific behavior change 
communication; more stringent use of gender disaggregated data (e.g., sexual debut, KAPB on 
ways to prevent HIV) to document project achievements, and enhanced support to women as home 
based caregivers would have considerably strengthened the gender dimensions of the project.
There is evidence of a “plateau effect” in the HIV prevalence and the sexual behavioral change 
l
observed in Uganda.  In this context, there is real risk that an inappropriate shift in financial and 
management focus to care at the expense of prevention may perpetuate this plateau effect and may 
even compromise some of the gain of the AIDS control program in the country.  Preventive 
strategies, therefore, need continued support and need to be better targeted to the un-reached 
population groups in order to prevent a further stagnation of impact.
Finally, it is clear that the single most important factor in the success of Uganda was the rapid 
l
national movement from denial to the acceptance of HIV as a major health and socio-economic 
problem that needed to be confronted head-on. Unfortunately, this may not be directly replicable, 
and, therefore, the “Uganda Model” should not be regarded as a "silver bullet".  However, several 
facets of Uganda's approach to AIDS control undoubtedly contributed to this conversion from 
denial to acceptance, such as the political commitment emanating from the very top, the 
constructive collaboration between the political and the religious establishments, and the active 
engagement of civil society actors in the fight against AIDS.  Looking forward, these elements of 
Uganda's HIV strategy may well be replicated in other settings.
9. 
Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Refer to Annex 8 for Detailed Borrower's Comments on draft IDA ICR and for the Borrower's Evaluation 
Report.
Comments on the STIP -ICR
1.
Overall Comments 
Overall the report adequately describes the events from the design period, through to implementation and 
presents well the progress and achievements made by the Project.  However the following comments on the 
report should be noted:
2.
Section 3.2, par 4 Second Sentence states ‘Component 2, however seems to have focused almost 
exclusively on the impact of HIV/AIDS at the individual level, and paid relatively little attention to the 
impact at the population level, or to the economic impact of the epidemic within the sector and beyond 
which were known to be significant.’
Response
: 
 It is true that the project paid little attention to the wider impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 
However it should be appreciated that at the time of the design very little was known and documented 
about the wider impact of the epidemic. 
- 23 -
Page  28
3.
Section 3.5 Par 3 – Why MOH was the Executing Agency and not UAC
Response
: Right from the conceptual and design stage STIP was a health sector intervention and not a 
multi sectoral programme. Indeed as states in paragraph one under section 3.1, initially STIP was part 
of the Community Health and AIDS Project (CHAP) that was meant to address the health policy issues 
as well as containing the growing AIDS epidemic. That is why the design was based on the existing 
programme in the MOH and mainly the STD/AIDS Control Programme, as stated in Paragraph 3 under 
section 3.1.  The objectives and strategic interventions all meant that the project was a health sector 
intervention, which were all in line with the white paper on the health policy 
4.
Inadequate attention given to monitoring of the project
Response
  
It is true that focus of monitoring was mainly on the programme and limited on the project. 
However it is important to note that right from the design stage, emphasis was on programme monitoring 
since the project was supporting health sector efforts and being implemented within the existing health 
care system
. 
5.
Financial Management and Institutional capacity
The report states that the financial management problems experienced by the project could have been 
mitigated if a detailed financial management assessment was under taken and a qualified financial 
management specialist had been in place early in the implementation process.
Response
:  
It should be appreciated that the implementation of the project started when the country was 
going thought reforms, which included decentralisation.  At the time of project design, it was not clear as 
to what form of decentralisation the reforms were going to take.  The decentralisation reforms were 
being improved on each year that it was being implemented. 
6.
Procurement Problems  
It needs also to be appreciated that procurement of medical goods or supplies was new to the project 
staff and the IDA/ Bank.  
7
.
The integration of the PCO in the MOH
The integration of the project was only possible with regard to implementation and not for the execution 
of the project functions. Given the demands of IDA procedures for procurement, financial management 
and reporting, the PCO could not be fully integrated in the MOH or UAC, as this would have introduced 
bureaucracies that would cause delays in the implementation of the project. 
8.
Rating of the Prevention of the Sexual Transmission of HIV
The rating of this component should be changed to highly satisfactory given that the SAR targets were 
met and in some cases exceeded as observed under the achievement of project objectives and outputs.
9.
Assessment of IDA Performance 
- 24 -
Page  29
The International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank provided the most support to the 
Project.  IDA committed US$ 50 Million to support Project Programs.  The IDA tremendously supported 
the Project both in day-to-day running as well as during Project Supervision Missions. 
IDA was very responsive to changing needs and challenges under the Project particularly those related to 
Procurement and disbursements.  IDA’s role in procurement was well implemented although review of 
evaluation reports and the back and forth communication on procurement was taking considerable time.
Overall IDA performance is rated
 
as
 
satisfactory.
(b) Cofinanciers:
A.
Uganda Sexually Transmitted Infections Project: Comments by Sida, Sweden
Sida participated already from the start very actively in the preparation of the STI-project.  As I was not 
involved in the project during the last and final years I limit myself to some more general comments that 
might be of interest also for the future;
1.
My impression was that the collaboration between Sida the GOU and the World Bank work very 
effectively during the preparation of the project. Dr Karin Edström participated on the behalf of Sida as 
well as myself. Approximately at the same time, work on a Uganda strategy for Sexual and Reproductive 
health was started.  It was regrettable that not more of the broad perspective on SRH was brought into the 
STI-project.
2.
However with it’s clear focus the STIP still served it purpose.  STIP was highly relevant in relation 
to the HIV/AIDS situation. It provided resources both for prevention, treatment of STIs as well as for 
condoms. Only a World Bank credit could bring that kind of financial resources.  I would say that the 
STI-project has been one very important key in haltering the hiv epidemic in Uganda.
3.
The STIP and the DHSP should have been much better integrated. Due to time constraints the 
World Bank and the GoU went ahead with the STIP without co-ordinating with the DHSP.  This was 
especially bad at the district level where the planning procedures and flow of resources did not work out 
well.  At least not initially
4.
I do believe that a PCO arrangement at that time was necessary but the PCO as a structure should 
have been closed down much earlier.  The staff should have been integrated with the MoH and NACP.  The 
problem with different salaries and incentives should have been dealt with. From a sustainability and 
ownership perspective this was not a good arrangement. 
My general impression is that STI delivered some very important services and commodities at a very 
important moment of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Uganda but that the implementation and administrative 
arrangement were not integrated well enough in the system.
Anders Nordström
In 1994 Programme Officer for Uganda in Stockholm
Today Head, Health Division, Stockholm
B.
Comments by DFID, UK
- 25 -
Page  30
DFID (then ODA) was involved in the design of the STI  Project to an extent and was subsequently 
involved in the monitoring of project implementation.
Firstly, to set the record straight, although the Staff Appraisal Report lists ODA as a contributing partner 
and specifies a financial sum promised, this was not actually agreed with ODA at the time. Our promised 
contribution was to be through parallel support, and this was acted upon. ODA / DFID has, on a number of 
occasions during project review missions, explained this point verbally and in writing to GoU, MoH and 
the World Bank. Unfortunately, this was never recorded in the Aide Memoires of these missions, and so has 
remained an issue to the stage of the Implementation Completion Report. 
The STIP design included two major departures for World Bank project design in Uganda.  These were 
firstly, enabling funds to be disbursed at the district level (previously all was controlled at central level) and 
secondly, including the involvement of civil society in implementation as a requirement. Although these 
now seem unremarkable, in 1994 they were very important in signalling a new approach, embracing 
decentralisation and a broader definition of partnership. In practice there were of course difficulties in 
implementation – bureaucratic delays, weak capacity at district level and political difficulties between local 
governments and civil society  - and success was patchy. However, the introduction of new approaches is 
always difficult and I think it is fair to say that the project made a contribution to the acceptance of these 
new ways of working and enabled some progress in addressing the constraints. 
STIP has certainly contributed to the better relationship between civil society and local governments. In 
some districts, effective HIV/AIDS co-ordination structures were established, that have stood the test of 
time – though many effectively dissolved once specific funding ended. By providing broad and fairly 
flexible support to HIV/AIDS activities, STIP has contributed to Uganda’s success in reducing prevalence. 
I think the project was less successful in promoting a truly multisectoral response. The approach adopted - 
setting up AIDS Control Programmes in all ministries – might have worked if there had been more follow 
up (and funding?) for the ACPs, and better mechanisms for encouraging (enforcing?) line ministries to 
address HIV/AIDS in their workplans and budgets. This would be much more possible now with the 
PEWG in place to carry out this role. There was also the problem of the overall governance/co-ordination 
functions for HIV/AIDS. These were not satisfactorily resolved until right at the end of the project. 
Tensions between different bodies limited the effectiveness of a multisectoral approach. Though I’m not 
sure what the project could have done to address this, focusing on technical issues only and effectively 
ignoring other factors was not successful.
The major constraint to project implementation was procurement. There were considerable delays in 
procuring drugs and supplies, especially condoms and STI and opportunistic infections treatment. DFID 
spent its parallel funding in filling the gap in supply created by these delays. The main issue was the 
unsuitability of the general World Bank procurement rules to drug and medical supplies procurement, and I 
don’t think the resulting problems were ever completely resolved. The drugs did eventually arrive, but not 
in a phased way, causing problems for NMS in storage and distribution. There were also examples of 
individual components of combination treatments having different expiry dates etc.
Finally, I remain to be convinced of the value of the radio transmitter procurement. Perhaps when the 
decision was originally taken, there were fewer FM stations in the country, so the establishment of radio 
capacity for health made more sense. Again delays in the procurement process were a contributory factor. 
It is also possible that more accurate information on the timeframe for project closure would have resulted 
in different decisions being taken.
- 26 -
Page  31
Ros Cooper
Health Adviser, DFID Uganda
7th April 2003
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. 
Additional Information
- 27 -
Page  32
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix
 
Projected in last PSR
1
Actual/Latest Estimate
 
Reduction in HIV Prevalence in adult 
population.
18% in 1992
6.2% in 2000
50% of people 15 - 49 citing at least two 
acceptable ways of protection from HIV 
infection.
20 %  in 1990
95%
Mean age at first sexual intercourse
 14 years in 1990.
16.4 years in 1998.
% of age group 15-19 reporting ever having 
sex
 71% in 1989
49% in 1998.
Reported condom use with non regular 
sexual partner increased by 50% in 15 - 49 
age group
34.3% in 1995
66.7% in 1998
Reported non regular sexual partners 
reduced by 20%
14.3% in 1996
20.6% in 1998
% of 15 - 19 agegroup having casual sex 
37% in 1989
21% in 1996
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix
 
Projected in last PSR
1
Actual/Latest Estimate
 
Awareness activities conducted 
including:materials production and 
dissemination through different channels.  
On track.
Supply of key commodities: 
Condoms and drugs for opportunistic 
infections in adequate supply (current 
pipeline supplies adequate upto December 
31, 2001).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
STD drugs -- in short supply
Testing kits and reagents -- adequate supply 
upto December 31, 2001.
Training materials and training provided for 
STD Management, TB management, 
infection control, care of those with AIDS 
(institutional and home-based).  On track.
Equipment for soundbroadcasting for IEC 
purposes - Tender and installation slowed 
down by cancellation of tender by supplier.  
Discussions underway with the second 
lowest bidder.
Medical Equipment procurement - almost 
complete.
Preparation for sustainability of the program.  
National Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS 
and Health Sector HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan  
both (2000/1 - 2005/6) completed.  Funds to 
be provided through the Uganda AIDS 
Control Project and the overall  budget.
70% of individuals seeking STD care 
receiving appropriate STD case management
14.3% in 1996
20.6% in 1998
1
 
End of project
A logical framework was never developed for this project, although a draft was developed in the December 
2002 Project Status Report (PSR).  Fourteen indicators at the development objective level were selected 
and followed previously in the PSRs.  These have been grouped and discussed by component.   The AIDS 
Control Program in their annual monitoring used a slightly different subset, and 4 targets set in the Staff 
- 28 -
Page  33
Appraisal Report.  This list is the 14 indicators from the PSRs, grouped by component. As data sources 
and achievements vary, these are discussed below.
Component 1: Prevention of Sexual Transmission of HIV
Reduction in the incidence and prevalence of HIV infection.
Achieved
Increased awareness among the population of HIV/AIDS transmission and methods of 
prevention (At least 50% of the target population able to cite two acceptable ways of 
protection from HIV; reported casual sex partnerships reduced by 20%; and delay in 
sexual debut set as targets in the SAR) 
Achieved
Increased availability and use of STD services (70% of individuals seeking STD 
care receive appropriate STD treatment as a target in the SAR).
Partially Achieved
Increased availability and use of condoms (Condom use with non regular partner increased 
by 50% as a target in the SAR) 
Achieved
- 29 -
Page  34
¨
¨
 
Reduction in the incidence and prevalence of HIV infection
 
 
HIV infection rates have been measured in various ways:  they uniformly show persistent drops 
since a peak in 1992/3.  These trends were established before the STIP, due to the 
strong role of 
the AIDS Control Program, but the project certainly contributed to the continuing momentum and 
a scaling
-
up effect, as it was the largest source of HIV funding in country at the time.  However, 
there is some concern that a plateau effect is 
now being observed.  For example, the overall HIV 
antenatal prevalence dropped from 11.4% in 1995 to 6.5 % weighted prevalence in 2001 (8.8% 
urban and 4.2% rural); based on 11 sites measured in 1995 ranging from 3.1% to 20.2% and16 
sites in 2001 
–
 range fr
om 2.7% to 11.3% prevalence.  Trends by age group from Nsambya, 
Rubaga, Mbarara, Mbale and Gulu antenatal surveillance show most marked declines amongst 
15
-
19 and 20
-
24 year olds. (HIV/AIDS Surveillance Report June 2002).
 
A cohort study over 10 years in so
uthwest Uganda conducted by the Medical Research Council 
surveyed 6566 initially seronegative adults in 15 neighboring villages during annual censuses and 
serological surveys between 1989 and 1999 and found HIV prevalence fell from 9.8% in round 1 
to 7.8% 
in round 10 (with consistently higher rates for women).  The same study shows HIV
-
1 
incidence rates also fell from 6.4 per 1000 person years at risk (PYAR) to 4.4 for women between 
1990 and 1999 and men from 9.7 to 6.0 per 1000 PYAR (Mbulaiteye et al, 2002
).  Other studies 
have shown drops in HIV
-
1 prevalence in urban antenatal clinics of 40% in 6 years (Asimwe
-
Okiror, et al 1997), a drop from 32% in 1991 in antenatal women 15
-
19 years to 10.3% in 1997 
(Kilian et al, 1999), and a reduction of HIV
-
1 prevalen
ce from 21% to 16% in 3 years in 15
-
24 
year olds (Wawer et al, 1997).  HIV rates for 15
-
24 year olds among first time testers with VCT 
at AIC Kampala have fallen from 23% positivity for females and 7% for males in 1994, to 10% 
positivity for females and 3%
 for males in 2001, showing the urban trend among youth.  These 
declines have been associated with reductions in teenage pregnancy, delayed age at first sex and 
marriage in women, increases in safer sex and increased condom use.
 
H
IV infection prevalence rates (
%
) at selected
antenatal sentinel sites
0
5
10
15
20
25
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
N
sambya
Jinja
Rubaga
Tororo
M
barara
M
bale
Rates have fallen in low prevalence districts as well as high, suggesting it is not the “maturity” of the 
epidemic that is contributory.  HIV seroprevalence in Pallisa district fell from 5.0% to 3.2%, from 9.1% to 
5.3% in Soroti, and from 2.8 % to 1.6% in Matany 1993-7 (Green, 1998).
- 30 -
Page  35
¨
Increased awareness among the population of HIV/AIDS transmission and methods of 
prevention
¨
There have been considerable achievements in knowledge: the indicator that at least 50% of the target 
population is able to cite two acceptable ways of protection from HIV has been met (aggregated 78% of 
women and 90% of men know 2 or more programmatic ways of avoiding the disease although gender gaps 
persist)  Abstinence based on a spontaneous answers, condoms and reduced partners after prompting to cite 
specific methods;  in a nationally representative sample survey of 7,246 women aged 15-49 and 1,962 men 
aged 15-54.  
Table 1: Knowledge of HIV Prevention by Gender in Uganda 2000/01
Prevention Method
Men
Women
Using Condoms
83% 
69% 
Abstinence
65%
50%
One Sexual Partner
91% 
84% 
Source 
UDHS 2000/20001
There are also poverty gaps showing the need to strengthen the pro-poor targeting of IEC messages: 25% 
of women and 15% of men with no education do not know any way to prevent AIDS compared with 2% of 
both women and men with secondary education who know no method; as well as marked rural/urban 
differentials (DHS 2000/01).
While there was an initial delay in sexual debut amongst males quoted as from 14-16 years in selected 
KAPB study sites, the UDHS 2000/01 only shows delayed sexual debut for men: the median age of first 
coitus for men and women aged 20-49 years was 18.8 and 16.7 years.  There has been no change for 
women. For males delayed debut is inferred by looking at age subsets:  men aged 50-54 have a debut of 
18.5 years and men aged 25-29 years have 19.4 years.  Other studies show a plateau since 1995:
Table 2: Sexual Debut in Kampala, Jinja and Lira 1995, 1998, 2001
Kampala
Jinja
Lira
1995
1998
2001199519982001199519982
001
16.4
16.3
16.616.016.016.116.016.116.2
1438
Respondents
1501
1329154513851467135817051
378
Source: 
Three population KAPB studies, quoted in HIV/AIDS Surveillance Report June 2002 
STD/AIDS Control Program MOH Uganda
A related indicator for female sexual debut is median age at first pregnancy and percentage of teenaged 
women who have begun childbearing:  which shows a little delay in the former, but marked change in the 
latter in spite of persisting education/socio-economic differentials:
Table 3: Teenaged Childbearing in Uganda 1995-2000
Indicator
1995 UDHS
2000/01 UDHS
Median Age at First Birth
18.6
18.7
Teenaged Women Who Have 
Begun Childbearing 
43%
31% (of which 59% have no 
education, 33.1% have primary 
school, and 16.7% have 
secondary plus)
- 31 -
Page  36
Reported casual sex partnerships declined by 43.2% against a target of 20% from 14.3% reporting casual 
sex in 1996, and 6.6% in 2001 (2001 Surveillance Report on selected KAPB sites, not gender 
disaggregated).   The UDHS 2000/01 shows gender disaggregated data for this indicator but no comparison 
with 1995, illustrating whether married or single, males tend to have higher rates of casual or multiple sex 
partnerships.
Unmarried Women
Unmarried Men
Married/cohabiting
Women
Married/cohabiting 
Men
  
  0
  1
2+
  0
  1
  2+
 0
1
2+
 
 0
1
2+
71.9
26.0
2.0
65.4
23.4
11.2
97.4
2.4
.1
88.0
9.7
2.3
2,365 surveyed
782 suveyed
4,881 surveyed
1,180 surveyed
Source
:  UDHS 2000/01 (don't know or missing responses excluded)
Modeling studies show that partner reduction is a strong component for HIV decrease:  condom use reduces 
HIV infections by 39%, STD reduction by 43% and partner reduction (delayed debut, reduced non-regular 
partners) by 68% (Robinson et al 1995 quoted in Green, 1998).
¨
Increased Availability and Use of STD Services 
A descriptive cross-sectional study in 85 primary health care facilities in 12 districts, executed in 1998, 
showed substantial improvement: over 20% of individuals seeking STD care received appropriate STD 
case management, up from 14.3% in 1996, but not reaching the target of 70%.  Since then, the strategy has 
been syndromic management in widespread facilities, and this has not been fully evaluated.  Antenatal 
syphilis testing using RPR kits was initiated under the project, both as part of routine antenatal care and as 
a component of the HIV-I sentinel surveillance system; however data is not available and since the closure 
of STIP, RPR kits are in short supply and smaller amounts have been procured under the Uganda AIDS 
Control Project. 
The STD Sentinel population at Old Mulago shows a drop in HIV prevalence rates amongst STD clinic 
attendees –which were 44.2% in 1989, 29.4% in 1998, and 20.5% in 2000. (HIV/AIDS Surveillance 
Report June 2002).
Main challenges to this component was unavailability of some drugs, the fact that health workers received 
their syndromic management training long before the drugs were actually procured, and the need for a 
stronger IEC component to address care seeking behavior for STDs.  There are gender differentials in 
knowledge of STDS according to the DHS 2000/2001.  50% of women and 75% of men have knowledge 
or can recognize symptoms of male STIs; in women 64% know some symptoms of STIs in women and just 
over 50% know some symptoms in men.  Self reported STIs are increasing for women (8% of women 
report an STI in the previous 12 months compared with 4% in 1995) but decreasing for men (3% compared 
with 6% in 1995).  With the low knowledge of STIs there is obvious under-reporting.  Traditional healers 
need to be more involved in addressing care-seeking behavior – some districts such as Moyo, Mbarara and 
Mbale do this (Green, 1998) as many cases are brought first to them.
Table 5: Gender Dimensions in Care seeking Behavior for STDs in Uganda
Sought Care
No Care
Advised 
Abstained 
Used 
Used 
- 32 -
Page  37
Partner
from Sex
Condoms
Drugs
Women
60.5%
37.3%
50.7%
26.1%
6.1%
33.1%
Men
69.9%
28.3%
63.2%
26.9%
15.9%
34.7%
Source
 UDHS 2000/2001
¨
Increased Availability and Use of Condoms 
Between 1995 and 1998 condom use with a non-regular sex partner increased from 34.3% to 66.7% in 
selected KAPB studies, exceeding the target of a 50% increase.  Other data sources show more modest 
achievements.  The UDHS 2000/2001 showed only 53.3% of women know a source of male condoms, only 
36.2% could get one, and only 7% of women and 15% of men used them during last coitus with any 
partner.  Nationally condom use with a non-regular sex partner was higher, 38% for women and 59% for 
men.  Condom access is still low in rural areas:  e.g., in Kotido in 1997 only 14% of 1599 respondents had 
seen a condom and 7.4% know where to get one, in Pallisa District in 1998 of 1695 respondents only 9.4% 
had ever used a condom (STD/AIDS Program, 1997 and 1998) although over 25% admitted having 
engaged in sex with two or more non-regular partners in the preceding 12 months.  Of 190.56 million 
condoms procured in Uganda during the project period, 154.70 million were procured by STIP.  Some 
high-risk groups are still to be reached:  30% of a sample of Kampala commercial sex workers had never 
used a condom (Sentumbwe and Nakkazi, 1998, International Conference on AIDS. 1998: 12:918; abstract 
no. 43365).
Component 2
Mitigation of the Personal Impact of AIDS
¨
Improved conditions for people with AIDS
Achieved
¨
Increased supply of drugs and protective 
supplies for opportunistic infections
Achieved
¨
Increased availability of drugs and improved 
services for tuberculosis case management
Achieved
Description of the activities and the rational for the achievements for this component were discussed in the 
main text.
Institutional Development Impact
¨
Improved institutional capacity for handling STDs 
and HIV infection
Achieved
¨
Improved national and district institutional capacity 
for management of AIDS and STD services
Achieved
¨
Improved services for special target groups: army, 
police and prisons
Achieved
¨
Improved surveillance 
Achieved
¨
Development and implementation of a monitoring 
and evaluation system
Achieved
¨
Operational research carried out to sustain 
achievements and address emerging problems
Achieved
¨
Increased NGO and community participation in 
dealing with HIV/AIDS problem.
Achieved
Description of the activities and the rational for the achievements for this component were discussed in the 
main text.
- 33 -
Page  38
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal
Estimate
Actual/Latest 
Estimate
Percentage of 
Appraisal
Component
US$ million
US$ million
Prevention of Sexual Transmission of HIV
37.70
36.20
96
Mitigation of personal impact of AIDS
24.20
21.24
87.7
Institutional Development
11.50
11.73
102
Total Baseline Cost
73.40
69.17
Total Project Costs
73.40
69.17
Total Financing Required
73.40
      
69.17
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) 
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category
ICB
Procurement
 
NCB
 
Method
1
Other
2
N.B.F.
Total Cost
1.  Works
 
0.00
(
)
(
)
(
)
(
)
(
0.00
)
2.  Goods
49.00
11.00
60.00
(
49.00
)
(
)
(
)
(
11.00
)
(
60.00
)
3.  Services
5.50
0.30
0.20
7.40
13.40
(
5.50
)
(
0.30
)
(
0.20
)
(
7.40
)
(
13.40
)
4.  Miscellaneous
0.00
(
)
(
)
(
)
(
)
(
0.00
)
5.  Miscellaneous
(
)
(
)
(
)
(
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
6.  Miscellaneous
(
)
(
)
(
)
(
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
     Total 
54.50
0.30
0.20
18.40
67.90
(
54.50
)
(
0.30
)
(
0.20
)
(
18.40
)
(
73.40
)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) 
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category
ICB
Procurement
 
NCB
 
Method
1
Other
2
N.B.F.
Total Cost
1.  Works
0.00
 
0.20
0.00
0.00
0.20
(
0.00
)
(
0.20
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.20
)
2.  Goods
33.07
2.75
0.00
9.54
45.36
(
33.07
)
(
2.75
)
(
0.00
)
(
9.54
)
(
45.36
)
3.  Services
10.95
5.58
1.32
5.83
23.68
(
10.95
)
(
5.58
)
(
1.32
)
(
5.83
)
(
23.68
)
4.  Miscellaneous
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
(
0.00
)
5.  Miscellaneous
- 34 -
Page  39
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
6.  Miscellaneous
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
0.00
(
0.00
)
     Total 
44.02
8.53
1.32
15.37
69.24
(
44.02
)
(
8.53
)
(
1.32
)
(
15.37
)
(
69.24
)
1/
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the 
Bank Loan
.  All costs include contingencies.
2/
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff 
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) 
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 35 -
Page  40
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) 
(US$ mil
lion equivalent)
 
Procurement Method
1
 
Expenditure Category
 
ICB
 
NCB
 
 
Other
2
 
N.B.F.
 
Total Cost
 
1.  Works
 
 
200,000.00
 
 
 
200,000.00
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Goods
 
Drugs and Equipment
 
Supplies
 
IEC Materials
 
Vehicles
 
 
 
 
26,932,387.58
 
4,277,458.08
 
1,855,516.39
 
 
1,175,691.03
 
 
1,577,301.00
 
 
 
8,064,712.31
 
 
1,458,350.00
 
12,349.61
 
 
9,240,403.34
 
26,932,387.58
 
7,313,109.64
 
1,867,866.00
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Services
 
      Monitoring and Research
 
      Foreign Training
 
      Local Training
 
      Studies
 
 
3,847,700.77
 
 
7,102,330.00
 
 
1,352,836.0
0
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,210,344.67
 
 
113,000.00
 
 
1,400,000.00
 
 
6,600,536.86
 
1,210,344.67
 
7,102,330.00
 
113,000.00
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Technical Assistance and 
Consultancy
 
 
798,339.84
 
 
422,624.36
 
1,220,964.20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Recurrent Costs
 
 
 
3,432,492.96
 
 
 
4,015,963,72
 
 
7,448,456.68
 
 
6.  Miscellaneous
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Total 
 
44,015,392.82
 
8,536,661.48
 
1,323,344.67
 
15,374,000.00
 
69,249,398.97
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1/
 
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.  All costs include contingencies.
 
2/
 
Includes civil works and go
ods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project 
management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re
-
lend
ing project funds to local government units.
 
 
 
 
 
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
 
 
Component
 
Appraisal Estimate
 
Actual/Latest Estimate
 
Total (% of Appraisal)
 
 
Bank
 
Govt.
 
CoF.
 
Bank
 
Govt.
 
CoF.
 
Bank
 
Govt.
 
CoF.
 
Prevention of Sexual
 
Transmission of HIV
 
37.70
 
21.89
 
0.73
 
13.59
 
36.20 (96%)
 
Mitigation of the Personal 
Impact of HIV/AIDS
 
24.24
 
19.74
 
0.98
 
0.52
 
21.24 (87.7%)
 
Institutional Development
 
11.50
 
7.08
 
1.56
 
3.09
 
11.73 (102%)
 
Total
 
73.40
 
48.70
 
4.4
 
17.17
 
69.17 (94.20)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 36 -
Page  41
SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS PROJECT 
–
 
 Cr. 2603
-
UG
 
FINANCIAL STATUS REPORT:  31st December, 2002
 
 
PROJECT SUMMARY:
 
 
Project Cost
 
 
Cost (1994)
 
Revised (1997)
 
 
 
 
 
 
US$ million
 
US$ million
 
 
 
 
 
IDA
 
50.00
 
50.00
 
 
 
 
 
SIDA
 
5.00
 
5.64
 
 
 
 
 
KFW
 
6.80
 
6.80
 
 
 
 
 
ODA
 
4.20
 
4.20
 
 
 
 
 
GoU
 
7.40
 
5.21
 
 
 
 
 
TOTAL
 
73.40
 
71.85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date Credit Agreement Signed:
 
3rd May, 1994
 
 
 
 
 
Date Project became effective:
 
22nd July, 1994
 
 
 
 
 
Completion Date:
 
30th June, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
Closing Date:
 
          31st Decemb
er, 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISBURSEMENTS (millions of US$)
 
 
Planned 
 
Disbursed as of
 
%  Disbursement
 
Balance 
Available
 
 
 
Financing
 
January 31, 2002
 
per funding Source
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(US$)
 
(US$)
 
%
 
(US$)
 
 
IDA
 
50.00
 
48.70
 
97.40
 
1.30
 
 
SIDA
 
5.64
 
5.18
 
91.84
 
0.46
 
 
KFW
 
6.80
 
6.90
 
101.44
 
0.00
 
 
ODA
 
4.20
 
5.13
 
122.14
 
0.00
 
 
GoU
 
5.21
 
3.34
 
64.11
 
1.87
 
 
TOTAL
 
71.85
 
69.25
 
96.38
 
3.63
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 37 -
Page  42
SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS PROJECT (STIP)
 
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimates) (US$ million equivale
nt)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expenditure Category
 
Procurement Method
 
 
 
Total Cost
 
 
 
ICB
 
NCB
 
Other
 
N.B.F
 
 
1
 
Works:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Civil Works
 
 
 
 
 
0.00
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
Goods:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)
 
-
Drugs and Equipment
 
11,900,000.00
 
 
 
11,000,000.00
 
22,900,000.00
 
(b)
 
-
Supplies
 
26,400,000.00
 
 
 
 
26
,400,000.00
 
(c)
 
-
IEC Materials
 
8,800,000.00
 
 
 
 
8,800,000.00
 
(d)
 
-
Vehicles
 
1,900,000.00
 
 
 
 
1,900,000.00
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
Services:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monitoring and Research 
 
5,100,000.00
 
 
 
 
5,100,000.00
 
 
Local Training
 
 
 
200,000.00
 
3,300,000.00
 
3,500,000.00
 
 
Studies
 
 
30
0,000.00
 
 
 
300,000.00
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
Technical Assistance and Consultancy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
400,000.00
 
 
 
 
400,000.00
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
Recurrent Costs
 
 
 
 
3,200,000.00
 
3,200,000.00
 
 
Allowances
 
 
 
 
900,000.00
 
900,000.00
 
 
Total Costs
 
54,500,000.00
 
300,000.00
 
200,000.00
 
18,400,000
.00
 
73,400,000.00
 
 
- 38 -
Page  43
SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTIONS PROJECT (STIP)
 
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual Estimates) (US$ million equivalent)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expenditure Category
 
Procurement Method
 
 
 
Total Cost
 
 
 
ICB
 
NCB
 
Other
 
N.B.F
 
 
1
 
Works:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Civil Works
 
 
200,000.00
 
 
 
200,000.00
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
Goods:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)
 
-
Drugs and Equipment
 
 
1,175,691.03
 
 
8,064,712.31
 
9,240,403.34
 
(b)
 
-
Supplies
 
26,932,387.58
 
 
 
 
26,932,387.58
 
(c)
 
-
IEC Materials
 
4,277,458.08
 
1,577,301.56
 
 
1,458,350.00
 
7,313,109.64
 
(d)
 
-
Vehicles
 
1,855,516.39
 
 
 
12,349.61
 
1,867,866.00
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
Services:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monitoring and Research
 
3,847,700.77
 
1,352,836.09
 
 
1,400,000.00
 
6,600,536.86
 
 
Foreign Training
 
 
 
1,210,344.67
 
 
1,210,344.67
 
 
Local Training
 
7,102,330.00
 
 
 
 
7,102,330.00
 
 
Studie
s
 
 
 
113,000.00
 
 
113,000.00
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
Technical Assistance and Consultancy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
798,339.84
 
 
422,624.36
 
1,220,964.20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
Recurrent Costs
 
 
3,432,492.96
 
 
4,015,963.72
 
7,448,456.68
 
 
Total Costs
 
44,015,392.82
 
8,536,661.48
 
1,323,344.67
 
15,374,000.00
 
6
9,249,398.97
 
Note:
 
      Data as at 31/12/02
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IDA
 
SIDA
 
KFW
 
ODA
 
GoU
 
TOTAL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Drugs, Supplies & Equipment
 
26,932,387.58
 
1,175,691.03
 
2,924,712.31
 
5,130,000.00
 
10,000.00
 
36,172,790.92
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IEC
 
4,277,458.08
 
1,577,301.56
 
778,350.00
 
 
68
0,000.00
 
7,313,109.64
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vehicles
 
1,855,516.39
 
0.00
 
12,349.61
 
 
 
1,867,866.00
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monitoring, Research and Training
 
12,273,375.44
 
1,352,836.09
 
 
 
1,400,000.00
 
15,026,211.53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Technical Assistance and Consultancy
 
798,339.84
 
0.00
 
392,624.36
 
 
30,000.00
 
1,220,964.20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Civil Works
 
0.00
 
200,000.00
 
 
 
 
200,000.00
 
- 39 -
Page  44
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits
not applicable
- 40 -
Page  45
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle
Performance Rating
 No. of Persons and Specialty
 (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)
Month/Year
  Count 
    Specialty
Implementation
Progress
Development
Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/1993
4
1 Sr. Public Health Specialist
1 Public Health Specialist
1 Economist
1 Operation Officer
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/1993
9
1 Sr. Public Health Specialist
1 Operation Officer, 1 Staff 
Assistant, 1 AIDS 
Evaluation Specialist, CED; 
3 Health Specialist 
GPA/WHO; 1 
Representative, SIDA, 2 
Health Economist
2/1994
5
1 Economist, 1 Operation 
Officer, 2 Health Economist, 1 
Procurement Specialist
Supervision
9/1994
3/1995
2
3
1 Operations Officer
1 Economist
1 Sr. Public Health Specialist
1 Operations Officer
1 Procurement Specialist
S
S
10/1995
1/1996
4/1996
11/1996
7
6
4
6
2 Operations Officers, 1 AIDS 
Spec. (WHO), 1 Task Manager, 1 
ODA Representative, 1 USAID, 
WHO, & UNICEF, 1 
Implementation Specialist
1 Operations Officer, 1 AIDS 
Spec. (WHO), 1 Sr. Economist, 2 
Representatives, 1 Health 
Specialist
1 Operations Officer, 1 AIDS 
Spec. (WHO), 1 Sr. Health 
Economist, 1 Health Specialist
2 Operations Officers, 1 ODA 
Representative, 1 Task Team 
Leader, 1 Economist, 1 
Disbursement Analyst
S
S
- 41 -
Page  46
5/1997
11/1997
5/1998
10/1998
2/1999
7/1999
4/2000
10/2000
3/2001
10/2001
3/2002
8
12
10
5
4
3
7
4
2
4
4
3 Economists, 1 Team Leader, 1 
Communications, 2, Public 
Healths, 1 Implementation 
Specialist, 
1 Team Leader, 3 Public Health 
Specialists, 4 Economists, 1 
Implementation Specialist, 1 
Procurement Specialist, 1 Sr. 
Program Officer, 1 STD Advisor
1 Team Leader, 2 Public Health 
Specialists, 1 Program Specialist, 
1 Implementation Specialist, 1 
Sr. Program Officer, 1 Sr. Health 
Advisor, 1 Sociologist, 1 STD 
Mgt. Specialist, 1 Public Health 
Specialist
1 Mission Leader, 1 Procurement 
Specialist, 1 Implementation 
Specialist, 1 Medical Sociologist, 
1 Public Health Specialist
3 Public Health Specialist, 1 
Health Specialist
1 Lead Specialist, 1 Sr. Health 
Specialist, 1 Health Specialist
1 Mission Leader, 1 Principle 
Health Specialist, 1 Sr. 
Procurement Specialist, 1Health 
Specialist, 1 HIV/AIDS 
Coordinator, 2 Pharmaceutical 
Experts
1 Team Leader, 1 Lead Health 
Specialist, 1 Health Specialist, 1 
Sr. Procurement Specialist
1 Team Leader
1 Health Specialist
1 Team Leader, 1 Economist, 1 
Financial Management
Specialist, 1 Procurement 
Specialist
1 Team Leader, 1 Team Member, 
1 Financial Management
Specialist, 1 Procurement 
Specialist
- 42 -
Page  47
12/2002
4
1 Team Leader, 1 Team Member, 
1 Financial Management 
Specialist, 1 Procurement 
Specialist
ICR
1/2003
3
1 Team Leader, 1 Health 
Specialist, 1 Public Health 
Specialist
S
S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle
Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks
US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
291.90
285.60
Appraisal/Negotiation
60.00
61.80
Supervision
477.45
569.90
ICR
18.41
84.00
Total 
847.76
1,001.30
- 43 -
Page  48
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
 Rating
Macro policies
H
SU
M
N
NA
Sector Policies
H
SU
M
N
NA
Physical
H
SU
M
N
NA
Financial
H
SU
M
N
NA
Institutional Development
H
SU
M
N
NA
Environmental
H
SU
M
N
NA
Social
Poverty Reduction
H
SU
M
N
NA
Gender
H
SU
M
N
NA
Other (Please specify)
H
SU
M
N
NA
Private sector development
H
SU
M
N
NA
Public sector management
H
SU
M
N
NA
Other (Please specify)
H
SU
M
N
NA
- 44 -
Page  49
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(
HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance
Rating
Lending
HS
S
U
HU
Supervision
HS
S
U
HU
Overall
HS
S
U
HU
6.2  Borrower performance
Rating
Preparation
HS
S
U
HU
Government implementation performance
HS
S
U
HU
Implementation agency performance
HS
S
U
HU
Overall
HS
S
U
HU
- 45 -
Page  50
Annex 7. 
List of Supporting Documents
Asimwe-Okiror, G. et al.  Change in sexual behavior and decline in HIV infection among young pregnant 
women in urban Uganda.  AIDS 1997; 11: 1757-63.
Green E. Report on the Situation of AIDS and the Role of IEC in Uganda. 1998.
Kilian AH et al. Reductions in risk behavior provide the most consistent explanation for declining HIV-1 
prevalence in Uganda.  AIDS 1999; 13:391-98.
Mbulaiteye S.M. et al. Declining HIV-1 incidence and associated prevalence over 10 years in a rural 
population in southwest Uganda: a cohort study. Lancet 2002: 360: 41-46.
STD/AIDS Control Program, Ministry of Health, Uganda. Results of Population Based KABP Survey on 
HIV/AIDS and STDs in Kotido District North Eastern Uganda. Oct. 1997.
STD/AIDS Control Program, Ministry of Health, Uganda. Results of Population Based KABP Survey on 
HIV/AIDS and STDs in Palisa District Eastern Uganda.  Jan. 1998.
STD/AIDS Control Program, Ministry of Health, Uganda. HIV/AIDS Surveillance Report June 2002
Uganda AIDS Commission Secretariat. Proceedings of a Consensus Workshop on the National Strategic 
Framework for HIV/AIDS Activities in Uganda 2000/1 – 2005/6.
Wawer M. et al. Trends in HIV-1 prevalence may not reflect incidence in mature epidemics: data from the 
Rakai population based cohort. AIDS 1997; 11: 1023-30.
- 46 -
Page  51
Additional Annex 
8
. 
Comments from MoH and Borrower's Implementation Completion 
Report
Borrower's Comments on the draft Implementation Completion Report Prepared by IDA
Comments on the STIP -ICR
1.
Overall Comments 
Overall the report adequately describes the events from the design period, through to implementation and 
presents well the progress and achievements made by the Project.  However the following comments on the 
report should be noted:
2.
Section 3.2, par 4 Second Sentence states ‘Component 2, however seems to have focused almost 
exclusively on the impact of HIV/AIDS at the individual level, and paid relatively little attention to the 
impact at the population level, or to the economic impact of the epidemic within the sector and beyond 
which were known to be significant.’
Response
:  
It is true that the project paid little attention to the wider impact of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 
However it should be appreciated that at the time of the design very little was known and documented 
about the wider impact of the epidemic. It was not clear as to what should be done and in addition, 
during the design the capacity was limited and there was no clear understanding of what should have 
been done at that time.
3.
Section 3.5 Par 3 – Why MOH was the Executing Agency and not UAC
Response
:  Right from the conceptual and design stage STIP was a health sector intervention and not a 
multi sectoral programme. Indeed as states in paragraph one under section 3.1, initially STIP was part 
of the Community Health and AIDS Project (CHAP) that was meant to address the health policy issues 
as well as containing the growing AIDS epidemic. That is why the design was based on the existing 
programme in the MOH and mainly the STD/AIDS Control Programme, as stated in Paragraph 3 under 
section 3.1.  The objectives and strategic interventions all meant that the project was a health sector 
intervention, which were all in line with the white paper on the health policy 
In addition, at the time of the design, UAC had just been established and was pre-occupied with setting 
up systems and mechanisms for its operations. Much as the MOH also had limited capacity, the Ministry 
had the institutional set up and mechanism that would execute the project better than UAC, which was 
establishing its self.
4.
Inadequate attention given to monitoring of the project
Response
 
It is true that focus of monitoring was mainly on the programme and limited on the project. 
However it is important to note that right from the design stage, emphasis was on programme monitoring 
since the project was supporting health sector efforts and being implemented within the existing health 
care system
. 
5.
Financial Management and Institutional capacity
The report states that the financial management problems experienced by the project could have been 
- 47 -
Page  52
mitigated if a detailed financial management assessment was under taken and a qualified financial 
management specialist had been in place early in the implementation process.
Response
:  
It should be appreciated that the implementation of the project started when the country was 
going thought reforms, which included decentralisation.  At the time of project design, it was not clear as 
to what form of decentralisation the reforms were going to take. The decentralisation reforms were being 
improved on each year that it was being implemented.  In addition, from the Bank side, this was one of 
the first decentralised projects that were being supported and therefore offered a lot of learning by 
implementing experience.  The financial management specialist who was in place was qualified enough 
and could not have performed any better given the prevailing situation.  Undertaking a financial 
management assessment would have helped but it should also be noted that financial management 
reforms and challenges where occurring almost every year and the project had to cope with these 
challenges.
6.
Procurement Problems  
It needs also to be appreciated that procurement of medical goods or supplies was new to the project 
staff and the IDA/ Bank.  At the beginning of the project implementation, the procurement guidelines that 
were being used were mainly meant for Capital items and civil works and not goods categorised as 
consumables or recurrent items like drugs and condoms. There was therefore a lot of learning by doing 
on both the government side and the IDA/Bank side. 
7.
The integration of the PCO in the MOH
The integration of the project was only possible with regard to implementation and not for the execution 
of the project functions. Given the demands of IDA procedures for procurement, financial management 
and reporting, the PCO could not be fully integrated in the MOH or UAC, as this would have introduced 
bureaucracies that would cause delays in the implementation of the project.  In 1998, there was an effort 
to have the project funds managed within the set up the Ministry structure and this caused considerable 
delays and both the MOH and IDA had to agree to drop the procedure as this was negatively impacting 
on project implementation  
8.
Rating of the Prevention of the Sexual Transmission of HIV
The rating of this component should be changed to highly satisfactory given that the SAR targets were 
met and in some cases exceeded as observed under the achievement of project objectives and outputs.
9.
Assessment of IDA Performance 
The International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank provided the most support to the 
Project.  IDA committed US$ 50 Million to support Project Programs.  The IDA tremendously supported 
the Project both in day-to-day running as well as during Project Supervision Missions. 
IDA was very responsive to changing needs and challenges under the Project particularly those related to 
Procurement and disbursements.  IDA’s role in procurement was well implemented although review of 
evaluation reports and the back and forth communication on procurement was taking considerable time.
IDA facilitated the Project through hiring of consultants in various fields especially procurement, IEC and 
assessment of Uganda’s condom needs.  Furthermore Bank staff have tremendously assisted the project 
- 48 -
Page  53
over Procurement.
The World Bank provided to Project staff several training opportunities both at home and abroad in a bid 
to build Project capacity. 
Overall IDA performance is rated
 
as
 
satisfactory.
____________________________________________________________________________________
Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report Prepared by MoH
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Sexually Transmitted Infections Project (STIP) Credit 2603 – UG
Ministry of Health
Kampala - Uganda
For Official Use Only
Not For Circulation
Projects Coordination Office
IDA/World Bank Projects
Ministry of Health
P. O. Box 7272
Kampala
Uganda
June 2003
Table of Contents
Preface
Part I:  Executive Summary
Introduction
Project Description and Objectives
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
Achievement of Project Objectives
- 49 -
Page  54
Major factors affecting the project
Project sustainability
Assessment of the performance of key role players
Assessment of out comes
Future Operations
Key lessons learned
_____________________________________________________________________
1.1
Introduction
The Sexually Transmitted Infections Project (STI)) was conceived as an emergency health sector 
HIV/AIDS Project.  It was split from what had been conceived as the Community Health and AIDS Project 
(CHAP). STIP was designed to maintain and strengthen the prevention and control of HIV/AIDS and other 
Sexually Transmitted Infections in the country. The project took over financing of AIDS activities in 
Uganda from WHO/GPA in July 1994.
The STI Project design and implementation was based on a decentralized arrangement where planning and 
implementation were at the district level with the Ministry of Health providing technical support, policy 
guidelines and monitoring and evalution.
Project implementation took place in all the 45 districts, which was done in three phases. The project 
supported ministries of Health, Defence (UPDF), Internal Affaires (Police and Prisions), Gender Labour 
and Social Development, Justice and Uganda AIDS Commission Secretariet.
1.2
Project Description and Objectives
The STI Project had three main objectives:
i)
To prevent the sexual transmission of HIV by promoting safer sexual behaviour, providing 
condoms, promoting STD care seeking behaviour and providing effective STD care.
ii)
To mitigate the personal impact of AIDS by providing support for community and home based 
care as well as social support to people with AIDS; training of in clinical management of 
HIV/AIDS and TB, provision of drugs for opportunistic infections and TB.
iii)
To support institutional development to manage HIV prevention and AIDS care by strengthening 
district capacity to plan, coordinate, implement, monitor and evaluate integrated HIV/AIDS related 
activities; and strengthening national capacity to provide technical support related to HIV/AIDS.
1.3
Statement and evaluation of Project objectives
The Project objectives were to prevent the sexual transmission of HIV; to mitigate the personal impact of 
AIDS; and to support institutional development to manage HIV prevention and AIDS care. The objectives 
were well conceived in line with the Ministry of Health White Paper on Health Policy of 1993 and the 
National HIV/AIDS operational plan of 1993.
However the objective did not focus on the following:
- 50 -
Page  55
Other modes of transmission other than the sexual transimmion
l
Provision of other truly opportunistic infection drugs other than for TB;
l
Never focused on promotion of the multi-sectoral approach to HIV/AIDS as well as strengthening 
l
coordination mechanisms at district and national level.
These shortcomings should be addressed in subsequent HIV/AIDS programmes in Uganda.
1.4
Achievement of project objectives
Achievement of project objectives has been through promotion of awareness, provision of condoms, 
provision of STD care and promotion of STD care seeking behaviour. Furthermore it has been through 
provision of support for community and home based care, counseling, training in care and provision of 
drugs for opportunistic infections especially Tuberculosis (TB). Finally institutional development through 
training at both the district and central levels greatly facilitated achievement of objectives.
The major Project results have been:
The project registered major achievements in regard to the prevention and institutional capacity building 
objectives.  The Mitigation objective had limited success given that the implementation continuum of care 
strategy was not fully realized.  The major project achievements were:
The decline in HIV prevalence rates ranging from 25-30.2% in 1992 to 9.5 –10.6 in 2001, in urban 
l
areas, and from 7.3-27.1% in 1993 –1.7-11.3 % in 2001 in rural areas.
Decline in HIV prevelance among STD patients from 44.2% in 1989 to 20.5 in 2002
l
Increase in condom use among non regular sexual partners from84.2% in 1995 to 87.5% in 1998 and 
l
was 93.6% in 2001 in Kampala District, while in Jinja;
Decrease in reported casual sex relations;
l
High level of awereness and knowledge of HIV/AIDS in the Country.
l
More effort will need to be made to improve on appropriate STD case management among individuals 
seeking STD care in Uganda as the STI-Project efforts in this regard fell short of the target. 
1.5
Major factors affecting the Project
The critical factors that affected implementation were the limited skills and capacity for procurement 
planning and mangement; disbursement and financial managemant constraints especially at districts level; 
the lack of adequate counterpart funds; and the closure of Commercial Banks managing Project funds.  
This greatly disrupted Project activities especially procurement and disbursement.  It should also be noted 
that the project has been implemented within an environment of policy reforms, which had not been 
invisaged at the design stage.  The reforms included: the cival service re-organisation and reforms in the 
fianacial sector which led to the closer of some of the Uganda Commercial Bank branches in the districts.  
All these affected the implementation of the project in one-way or another.
1.6
Project Sustainability
The project has achieved sustainability insome aspects in the following ways:
The high level of political committement to respond to the HIV/AIDS epdidemic which exstits in the 
l
country
The high level of awereness and knowledge is key for the continued prevention of the HIV transmission 
l
as well as the openness about HIV/AIDS, which has been created.
The promotion of care and support has promoted positive living among PLWHA which has enabled 
l
them to live more time to look after their families
- 51 -
Page  56
Capacity has been created for planning of HIV/AIDS interventions. Districts are now able to develop 
l
HIV/AIDS annual workplans with or without the STI Project.
The Project has created capacitity for procurement of medical goods such as drugs, condoms and test 
l
kits.  The capcity built has been the foundation to the establishement of the Contracts Committee in the 
MOH.
The project has created the capacity for epidimiology and surveillance in the STD/ACP in the MOH.  
l
STD/ACP is now able to carry out surveillance of HIV/AIDS
The promotion of partnership with NGO at the central and district level has greatly improved the 
l
distrct’s capacity in HIV/AIDS prevention and control.
However major challenges exist with regard to the sustainability of achievements, which have been 
realized.  Thes include: 
The continuity HIV/AIDS epidemic in the region in general and Uganda in particular. 
l
Sustainability will depend on the continuity of HIV/AIDS programs; 
l
Continued availability drugs, condoms and other essential commodities; 
l
Continued funding of HIV/AIDS programmes in the country.
l
A lot of emphasis will have to be laid on support to NGOs at all levels and dependence on donor support 
will be inevitable as Uganda increases its spending on HIV/AIDS from local resources.
1.7
Assessment of the performance of key role players
The major Project stakeholders were IDA/World Bank, SIDA, DFID, KfW, USAID, WHO/UNAIDS and 
the Government of Uganda.  The critical roles played by the key players were mainly funding, technical 
support, Project support on day to day basis; capacity building through exposure to consultants and donor 
staff; training of Project staff; and regular supervision of the Project by the stakeholders.
Overall the donors met the commitments to the Project.  However, the Government’s capacity to meet 
counterpart obligations was overestimated to the extent that counterpart contribution had to be reduced 
from 10% to 5%.
1.8
Assessment of Outcome
Overall the Project met the major targets, which were to increase level of knowledge about HIV/AIDS; to 
increase condom use; to increase appropriate STD case management; and to decrease casual sex 
relationships. 
The major Project outcomes were the decline in HIV prevalence rates; improvement in sexual behaviour 
patterns; development of demand for condoms; STD services and voluntary counselling and testing (VCT); 
the institutionalisation of NGO partnerships in the districts; and the establishment of multi-sectoral 
planning.  Although these outcomes cannot be sorely attributed to the STI Project because of other ongoing 
HIV/AIDS efforts in the Country at the time, nevertheless the Project played a key role in bringing about 
these out comes during the six year period of funding support.
1.9
Future Operations
Future operations in Uganda will have to address the continuing nature of the epidemic; sustain present 
HIV/AIDS activities; address gaps and challenges; ensure multisectoral planning and implementation; and 
continue to build capacity as a key cornerstone in confronting the epidemic.  The major gaps and challenges 
- 52 -
Page  57
to be addressed include:
Promotion of behaviour change which has lagged behind HIV/AIDS awareness; 
l
Gender mainstreaming in HIVAIDS interventions
l
Future procurement of commodities; 
l
Coordination of HIV/AIDS activities in the country
l
Expansion of VCT services country wide
l
Expansion of directly observed treatment, short course for TB (DOTS);
l
Provision of drugs for other opportunistic infections; and promotion of access to the highly active 
l
anti-retroviral treatments (HAARTs).
Expansion of condom use to rural areas, 
l
Providing for the high demand for STD services, 
l
Strengthening of capacity for infection control, 
l
Intensification of prevention of mother to child transmission and integration of HIV/AIDS in 
l
Reproductive Health.
Operationalisation of the multi-sectroal approach and mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS in all the sectors of 
l
the economy
1.10
Key Lessons Learned
Many lessons have been learned from the STI Project.  The major lessons include:
Political commitment and support must be at all levels to ensure sustained actions.  This commitment 
l
facilitates resources mobilisation and equipping of communities with knowledge and skills for 
HIV/AIDS prevention and control.
Openness about HIV/AIDS at the leadership and personal levels allows the problem and difficult issues 
l
to be discussed.  Openness enables one to get support and re-stores hope and dignity of people living 
with HIV/AIDS.
Multi-sectoral approach does not mean only having AIDS Control Programmes in Ministries. It should 
l
go beyond and mainstream HIV/AIDS in all sector programmes and activities.  
Mainstreaming HIV/AIDS in sector programmes activities requires analysis and understanding of how 
l
HIV/AIDS affects attainment of sector goals and objectives.  This will help the different sectors to 
understand their role and response to the epidemic.  Once the roles are identified then they should be 
mainstreamed into planning and implementation. 
HIV/AIDS interventions should be complemented with other public health interventions.  For example 
l
home care should be complemented with environmental hygiene and malaria control activities, to avoid 
some of the opportunistic infections, which HIV/AIDS patients suffer from.
Management and administration systems related to financial management and disbursements, 
l
procurement and information systems should never be over looked, as they are key in ensuring effective 
implementation of HIV/AIDS programmes.
Involvement of NGOs, CBOs and other private agencies improves implementation capacity at the 
l
district and community level. At central level capacity can be enhanced by contracting out 
implementation of some of the interventions.
- 53 -
Page  58
The liberalisation of the electronic media and the promotion of the press freedom in Uganda have 
l
greatly facilitated HIV/AIDS IEC campaign in the country. Private radio stations and newspapers have 
enabled coverage of IEC interventions on HIV/AIDS. Sensitive issues like condom use, which could 
not easily be promoted through the public media, have been successfully and effectively been carried 
out on private radio stations.  This policy reform increased the government capacity to educate the 
public on HIV/AIDS prevention and control. 
Investment in education greatly facilitates reaching the young people.  Young people can easily be 
l
reached and equipped with knowledge and skills on HIV/AIDS when in schools than when out of 
schools. 
Procurement and disbursement challenges also have provided lessons to learn in terms of planning the 
l
implementation of future programs.
There is need to strengthen overall coordination of HIV/AIDS Programme. 
l
- 54 -
Page  59
- 55 -
