Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2603 UG
                   Development Credit Agreement
             (Sexually Transmitted Infections Project)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated May 3, 1994
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2603 UG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 3, 1994, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) a grant (the KfW Grant) in an amount equivalent
to about $6,800,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Grant Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and KfW;
      (C)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA) a grant (the SIDA Grant) in
an amount equivalent to about $5,000,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
SIDA Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
SIDA; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
      (b)   "MOI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Information;
      (c)   "STD" means sexually transmitted diseases;
      (d)   "AIDS" means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;
      (e)   "HIV" means Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus;
      (f)   "NGO" means a non-governmental organization;
      (g)   "ACP" means the Borrower's AIDS Control Program;
      (h)   "UAC" means Uganda AIDS Commission;
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (j)   "IEC materials" means information, education and
communication materials.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-six million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 36,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against setoff,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
Page  3
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1
commencing August 1, 2004 and ending February 1, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1,
2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
Page  4
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOH, MOI, and NGOs with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and public
health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall conduct, not later than
June 30, 1996, jointly with the Association, a midterm review of the
Project. Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing,
the review shall, inter alia, cover the implementation and
management aspects of the Project, implementation procedures in each
district, progress made by the Project, performance and use of
technical assistance personnel, the role of national counterpart
staff, the status and results of the monitoring indicators,
training, reporting, accounting and audit performance, disbursement
procedures and the sustainability of the Project.
      (b)   Not later than one month prior to the midterm review
referred to in (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the
progress achieved in complying with Project implementation.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, promptly thereafter, carry out the
recommendations stemming from the aforementioned review.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
Page  5
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the KfW Grant Agreement and the SIDA Grant Agreement shall have
failed to become effective by December 31, 1994 or such later date
as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   The Association has received evidence that MOH has
invited all broadcast media entities in Uganda to submit proposals
for the airing of television and radio materials in the first year
of Project implementation; and
      (b)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association: (i)
evidence of contractual arrangements made for the distribution of
condoms to NGOs in at least twenty districts; and (ii) a Project
implementation manual, all satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  6
      Section 7.01. The Borrower's minister responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O. Box 8147
            Kampala, Uganda
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINSEC                    61170
                   Kampala
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                         By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta-Apuli
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Francis X. Colaco
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Drugs, Supplies                             100% of foreign
    and Equipment:                              expenditures,
                                                100% of local
    (a)  under Part A.1        3,200,000        expenditures
Page  7
         and 2 of the                           (ex-factory
         Project                                cost) and 90%
                                                of local expen-
    (b)  other                21,000,000        ditures for other
                                                items procured
                                                locally
(2) IEC materials              4,000,000        90%
(3) Vehicles                   1,400,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(4) Monitoring/                3,450,000        90%
    Research and
    Training
(5) Technical                    440,000        100% of foreign
    assistance                                  expenditures
    and studies
(6) Unallocated                2,810,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                36,300,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) Category
(1) (a) unless the Borrower furnishes to the Association evidence
that, in their submission of the initial annual district health plan
for at least 3 districts, district health teams have included
activities and earmarked funds for drugs to be distributed by NGOs
and other community based organizations.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods and services not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower's
efforts to: (a) prevent sexual transmission of HIV; (b) mitigate the
personal impact of AIDS; and (c) support institutional development
to manage HIV prevention and AIDS Care.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Prevention of Sexual Transmission of HIV through:
(1)   Promotion of safer sexual behavior, including awareness, mass
and community mobilization campaigns.
(2)   Targeted behavioral interventions and services aimed at high-
Page  8
risk groups.
(3)   Promotion of increased use and availability of condoms.
(4)   Promotion of care and treatment of STD, including behavioral
change, drugs and diagnostics.
(5)   Training in effective STD care.
Part B:     Mitigation of the Personal Impact of AIDS through:
(1)   Promotion of in-home and community-based care of patients with
AIDS.
(2)   Acquisition of drugs for opportunistic infections and clinical
and protective supplies for AIDS care.
(3)   Support for diagnosis and case management of tuberculosis,
including the provision of drugs, upgrading of laboratory facilities
and supplies.
Part C:     Institutional Development
      Support for the development of capacity to plan, manage and
monitor STD and AIDS programs at the national and district levels,
including surveillance, operational research, monitoring and
evaluation activities and initiatives of NGOs.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    Goods to be procured through international competitive bidding
shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by a third
party.
3.    Bidders for the supply of condoms under Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Page  9
Guidelines.
4.    To the extent practicable, contracts for drug supplies
diagnostics, office equipment and supplies under Parts A and B of
the Project shall be grouped together and procured on a semiannual
basis, based on projected requirements agreed by the Association.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Uganda may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items, for medical equipment and supplies
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.    (a)   Drugs, supplies and diagnostics under Parts A and B of
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000, and
(b) supplies and information, education and communication materials
under Part A of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
Page  10
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each, for firms, or less than $50,000 equivalent
each, for individuals. However, this exception to prior Association
review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts
or to the employment of individuals, to single source selection of
firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined
by the Association or to amendments of contracts raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above for firms or to
$50,000 equivalent or above for individuals.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
General
1.    The Permanent Secretary, MOH, shall, as Project Director, be
responsible for overall Project coordination and implementation.
District level organizations, community groups and NGOs shall be
responsible for direct implementation of the Project with the
technical assistance of ACP. The Program Manager of ACP shall be
responsible for the technical aspects of Project implementation.
2.    The Borrower shall establish a Project Steering Committee to
be chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MOH and comprising
representatives of MOH, MOI, Ministry of Local Government, Ministry
of Finance and Planning, National Medical Stores, UAC and ACP. A
Project coordinator who shall work in close cooperation with the
Program Manager of ACP shall also serve as Secretary of the Project
Steering Committee. Representatives of NGOs, other ministries and
specialized divisions within MOH may be invited, as necessary, to
participate in the Steering Committee's deliberations.
3.    At the District level, the District Medical Officer shall be
responsible for coordinating Project activities with the support of
the District Executive Secretary, and the assistance of NGOs active
in the district, the District Health and Development Committees and
community groups.
4.    ACP shall: (a) be responsible for monitoring data reported by
district health teams, preparing comprehensive semiannual progress
reports and furnishing them, through the Permanent Secretary of MOH
to the Association for its review and comments; (b) by not later
than March 31 in each year of Project implementation, prepare and
furnish to the Association, through the Permanent Secretary of MOH,
annual work plans for the ensuing year; and (c) conduct with the
Association an annual review of progress achieved in the
implementation of the various components of the Project.
5.    ACP shall take all measures necessary to ensure that district
health teams shall prepare appropriate health plans, for their
respective districts, which shall include the detailed activities to
be carried out and earmark funds for drugs to be distributed by NGOs
and other community based organizations.
Page  11
Part A of the Project
6.    In order to increase public awareness of AIDS and change
sexual behavior, the Borrower shall: (a) ensure the production of
suitable television and radio programs and materials through open
competition; (b) encourage community mobilization for sexual
behavior changes; (c) support NGOs and community-based organizations
to carry out behavioral interventions and services targeted toward
specific sites and high risk populations. The annual plans to be
furnished to the Association through the Permanent Secretary of MOH
by not later than March 31 of each year of Project implementation
shall, inter alia, include prevention themes, strategies, approaches
and activities and a schedule for implementation including a
timetable for airing television and radio materials.
Part C of the Project
7.    The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that
all biomedical research proposals are reviewed by an independent
panel of experts satisfactory to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to not exceeding $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
Page  12
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Page  13
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
