Report No. PID8591
Project Name                     Romania-Agricultural Pollution Control
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Environment
Project ID                       ROPE66065
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF WATERS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION
Address: B-dul Libertatii, 12, Sector 5, Bucharest,
Romania
Contact Person: Mr. Petru Lificiu, Secretary of State
Tel: 40-1 410-0219
Fax: 40-1-410-0219
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                May 17, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         July 25, 2001
Projected Board Date             October 31, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The Black Sea, a critical regional resource and one of Europe's newest
seas, has been relatively stable until recent times. During the past
decades, however, the Black Sea suffered severe environmental damage,
mainly due to coastal erosion, eutrophication, insufficiently treated
sewage, conversion of wetlands, increased nutrient run-off from
agriculture, introduction of exotic species, and inadequate resource
management all of which led to a decline of its biological diversity, loss
of habitat and long-term ecological changes. Black Sea Environmental
Program (BSEP) Studies revealed that 58% of the total nitrogen and 66% of
the total phosphorous flowing in dissolved form into the Black Sea come
from the Danube river basin. More than half of all nutrient loads into
Danube River originate from agriculture, about one fourth from private
households and about 10 - 13% from industry. Romania is the largest
contributor of nutrients to the Black Sea as its entire territory drains
into the Black Sea. Total nutrient emissions in surface water in 1994 were
about 284 - 306 kilo tons nitrogen/year and 39 - 40 kilo tons
phosphorous/year. About 44% of the total nitrogen (N) input stems from
agriculture, while municipal waste water accounts for 11 - 12% and
industry for 9 - 10%.   In the case of phosphorous (P), the role of
agriculture is even greater, accounting for about 58% of total emissions,
followed by industry with 20.6% and municipal waste water with 11.4%.
Groundwater pollution with nitrate (NO3) and microbial organisms from
agriculture has a major social significance from the point of view of
drinking water supply for rural settlements in Romania.
2. Objectives
Project Development Objective: The overall project development objective
is to increase significantly the use of environmentally-friendly
agricultural practices in the project area and thereby reduce nutrient



discharge from agricultural sources in Romania to the Danube River and
Black Sea. In support of this objective, the project will assist the
Government of Romania to: (i) promote the adoption of
environmentally-friendly agricultural practices by farmers' associations,
family farms and individual farmers in the Calarasi Judet (county); (ii)
promote ecologically sustainable land use and management in the
Boianu-Sticleanu Polder, and ecological restoration of the neighboring
Calarasi-Raul Polder to act as a filter and reduce the nutrient discharge
to the Danube; (iii) strengthen national policy and regulatory capacity;
and (iv) promote public awareness and mechanisms for replicability. The
project, envisaged as a demonstration activity in the Calarasi county in
the southern part of Romania, along the lower Danube, may provide
replicable lessons for introduction of similar practices in other
districts of Romania as well as other Black Sea Riparian Countries.Project
Global Environmental Objectives: The global environmental objective of the
Project is to reduce, over the long-term, the discharge of nutrients
(nitrogen and phosphorous) and other agricultural pollutants into the
Danube River and Black Sea through integrated land and water management of
the Calarasi region and ecological rehabilitation of two agricultural
polders. The project is the first of its kind under the umbrella of the
Black Sea/Danube Strategic Partnership - Nutrient Reduction Investment
Fund under which riparian countries would be eligible for GEF funding for
projects that would control or mitigate nutrient inflow to the Black Sea.
The proposed project is one of the Bank's early efforts in mainstreaming
environmental considerations into agriculture and is expected to serve as
a model for similar operations to be replicated in the other littoral
countries under the umbrella of the Strategic Partnership Program.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The principal value added of GEF support for the Project comes from
providing additional funds to address trans-boundary water problems in the
Black Sea. GEF funds will help reduce the barriers to farmers adopting
environment-friendly agricultural practices and allow the Government to
consider scaling-up the program. Without GEF support to coordinate these
activities, Romania might undertake a series of small activities in
different parts of the country to address the issues. It would lack a
mechanism to coordinate the financing, approaches and geographical
targeting of activities. In addition, the Project would lack sufficient
resources to develop capacity (national and local) to promote and
accelerate the program, to demonstrate the holistic approach to
controlling nutrient loads and to undertake a public outreach program. GEF
will also leverage funds from donors by stimulating a program to
coordinate activities, increase coverage and generate a larger impact.
4. Description
The project will support both Judet level as well as National level
activities. In the Calarasi Judet, the project will support activities at
two levels: first at the Judet level, and, second, in seven comunas around
Lake Galatui. Calarasi is one of the poorest agricultural counties of
Romania, characterized by intensive farming, lack of running water,
absence of a sewage system, contaminated drinking water wells (both
nitrites and bacteriological levels in water are above maximum acceptable
standards) as well as poor livestock management practices. Traditionally
livestock is maintained near the house without an organized system to
collect and store manure. The lack of efficient manure management
- 2 -



practices is significant in terms of Romanian surface and groundwater
pollution and nutrient run-off to the Danube River and Black Sea.Component
1: Activities in the Calarasi Judet (US$9.21 m): Manure Management
Practices (US$5.27 m). This sub-component will provide grants for the
installation of improved manure storage facilities and equipment for
manure collection and application in the seven comunas. Grants on a
cost-sharing basis of about 70t of total costs would be provided for the
construction of village-level solid waste manure facilities and small
storage bunkers with effluent collection facilities at the household
level, as well as supply of equipment for manure handling and spreading.
Villages and households wishing to participate in the investment program
would be selected against agreed criteria and cost-sharing arrangements.
Promotion of Environment-friendly Agricultural Practices (US$2.48 m).
This sub-component will promote the adoption of better agricultural
practices that would improve agricultural production while reducing
nutrient discharge pollution from agriculture. The proposed activities
would include: (i) the promotion of environmentally-friendly agricultural
practices; and (ii) demonstration program of integrated crop and nutrient
management, including crop rotations and efficient application of organic
and inorganic fertilizers based on soil tests using soil testing kits
provided by the project. Activities within the entire Judet would be
supported through the ASSP Competitive Grant Scheme with the APCP
providing farmers groups, eligible institutions and NGOs with the
beneficiary contribution required to access CGS funds. Integrated
Management of Boianu-Sticleanu Polder (US$1.0 m) and Ecological
Restoration of part of the Calarasi-Raul Polder: The project would
develop and support a specific land use management plan for the
Boianu-Sticleanu Polder. Thus the project would develop an action plan
for a vulnerable area as requested under the EU Nitrate Directive. This
component would include: (i) plantation of agro-forestry trees on the
degraded lands adjacent to the Iezer Calarasi and buffer strips on
unproductive riparian land; (ii) implementation of the code for good
agricultural practices on the neighbouring arable land; and (iii)
implementation of a conservation management plan for the proposed Iezer
Calarasi nature reserve. The component will complement the restoration
activities on the Bulgarian side (Oriahovo, Bulgarian Danube islands and
the floodplain west of Belene and Tutracan). The project would also
provide the costs of studies and ecological restoration of part (about
3000 hectares) of the Calarasi-Raul Polder (adjoining the Boianu-Sticleanu
Polder to the east and comprising a major portion of abandoned rice
fields) to wetlands. The project interventions in the two polders would be
coordinated by the Danube Delta National Research Institute
(DDNRI).Strengthening Capacity in Calarasi Judet ( Environmental
Protection Inspectorate (EPI) and Public Health Directorate) to Monitor
Soil and Water Quality and Environmental Impacts (US$0.46 m). The project
would strengthen the capacity of EPI and Public Health Directorate in
Calarasi to carry out soil and water quality monitoring program to
determine the impact of various project activities (in particular, manure
and nutrient management and the application of Code of Good Agricultural
Practices etc.), on soil and water quality. The project would support the
incremental costs of: (a) selecting and maintaining a set of soil and
water quality monitoring sites in the project area to develop baseline
data for the current status of surface and groundwater quality; (b)
determining the impact of improved manure storage systems and better
agricultural practices on water quality; (c) strengthening institutional
-3 -



and technical capacity of EPI and PHD by providing professional training
to field and laboratory staff and upgrading laboratory equipment for
analyzing water and soil samples for various water quality indicators; and
(d) by providing incremental operating expenses for field monitoring
activities. Component 2: Strengthening National Policy and Regulatory
Capacity (US$0.27 m). This would include support to the Ministry of Water
and Environmental Protection (MWEP) and Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Forests (MAFF) for: (i) work relating to the application of the Nitrates
Directive and harmonization of legislation with the requirements of the
European Union A new Governmental Decision (No. 964 and dated October 13,
2000) meets Government's obligations to introduce the provisions of the EU
Nitrate Directive into Romanian legislation. The issue of this document
is the first step in creating the legal framework for water and soil
protection and would need to be followed by the preparation of the Code of
Good Agricultural Practices.; (ii) developing a Code of Good Agricultural
Practices; and (iii) strengthening the capacity of the National Authority
for Ecological Agriculture in its efforts to promote scientific organic
farming and land use management. Component 3: Public Awareness and
Replication Strategy (US$0.45 m)The project will support public awareness
efforts: (i) in Calarasi Judet, to familiarize the population and help
induce the behavioral changes necessary to the success of the project in
the seven selected comunas, and replication in the judet area; (ii) at
national level, to disseminate the information concerning the benefits of
the project activities and promote replication at national level; and
(iii) at regional level, in the Black Sea Riparian countries to promote
the pilot project as a possible model for replication.Component 4: Project
Management Unit (US$0.87 m): The project would support a Project
Management Unit (PMU) to be established in the DGAIA offices, Calarasi.
The PMU would comprise Project Administrator, Agricultural Technical
Specialist (who would also handle project monitoring/evaluation),
Financial Management Specialist, Accountant, Secretary/ Translator and
Driver. Procurement services would be provided to the PMU by the ASSP
Project Management Unit located in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Forests. The costs of the Procurement and Financial Management
Specialists would be shared, with the APCP supporting the costs of the
Financial Specialist (who would be based in the ASSP, PMU, Bucharest),
while the ASSP would support the costs of the Procurement Specialist.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 11.77
6. Implementation
Project Oversight Committee: A Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be
responsible for providing project oversight advice and assistance in
resolving issues associated with project implementation, and ensure
commitment of the concerned Ministries. Co-ordination at the Judet-level
of Calarasi would assured by a Project Co-ordination Committee chaired by
the President of the County Council, with the Prefect as vice-chair. MWEP
would establish a Project Management Unit (PMU), located at DGA-Calarasi
to handle procurement; all financial matters relating to disbursements,
maintenance of project accounts and financial monitoring; monitoring as
well as evaluation of all project activities. The PMU would comprise
Project Administrator, Agricultural Technical Specialist (who would also
handle project monitoring/evaluation), Financial Management Specialist,
-4 -



Accountant, Secretary/Translator and Driver. Project Monitoring and
Evaluation: A well-designed monitoring and evaluation system will be
critical for ensuring the project's timely and successful implementation,
and enhancing its impact by a systematic analysis of lessons learned and
their effective dissemination. Project monitoring and evaluation would be
the responsibility of the PMU. Monitoring will be based on the baseline
survey undertaken during preparation phase of the project. The PMU would
annually monitor and evaluate project performance through conducting
beneficiary surveys. The results of M&E activities will be fed back into
the implementation process as improved practices.
7. Sustainability
Institutional sustainabilityThe local government agencies and the communa
councils led by elected Mayors, are in full support of the project. The
project preparation team will work closely with the extension service
(ANCA), which has only been recently established and supported through the
World Bank Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP). The project
seeks to strengthen the policy and regulatory framework and build capacity
of national and local institutions, including the Ministry of Waters,
Forests and Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food
and Forests towards project preparation and implementation. Also, the PMU
will be located in the Calarasi branch of the General Directorate for
Agriculture (DGAIA) bringing project management to the local level. Both
the DGAIA and the Environmental Protection Inspectorate, which have strong
institutional capacity and a proven track record at the county level, will
have lead responsibility for project implementation at the field level and
will thus ensure sustainability of the project.Social sustainabilityEarly
involvement of key stakeholders in project preparation and implementation,
including policy makers, local public officials and community leaders,
farmers, their associations, NGOs, will ensure social sustainability of
the project. The technology provided will be responsive to the needs of
the farmers and end-users. They will help in identifying issues and
possible measures to address them. Farmers will participate in installing
on-farm field trials and community waste containment structures. This
will give the farmers and beneficiaries a sense of ownership and
contribute to social sustainability. The Farmer's associations and
individual farmers have pledged their support and are looking forward to
working with the project staff.Financial SustainabilityThe main focus of
activities at the village and individual farm level is the introduction of
environment-friendly agricultural practices that maintain or increase farm
profitability and household revenues. Farmers will be contributing towards
the installation and operating expenses of the demonstrations and be
involved in the planning and execution from the start. During project
preparation, data on the comuna's budget was collected and measured to see
whether the comunas would be able to support the manure storage platforms'
O&M costs and revenues after the five years of project implementation. It
was concluded that the comunas could indeed support the maintenance of
platforms, paying a charge for manure collection of about
US$3/year/household which is affordable for an average household in the
Calarasi Judet. A sense of ownership with cost sharing plus attention to
positive impact on profitability will ensure that farmer adoption of these
practices will become self-sustaining. The project would also benefit the
farmers by promoting cost-saving yield-enhancing agricultural practices.
In addition, the promotion of organic farming has the potential to open
new markets for the local farmers.The Government has demonstrated
- 5 -



consistent financial commitment to implementing the recently completed GEF
Danube Delta Biodiversity Project and the ongoing Biodiversity
Conservation Management Project. This project is a logical extension of
these initiatives.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Key lessons learned from rural environmental and agricultural operations
in the regions and reflected in the Proposed Project include: the early
involvement of key stakeholders in project preparation, specifically
including local communities and influential decision makers, is essential
in order to ensure ownership and successful project implementation;
working directly with the beneficiaries is essential for developing
ownership, which is a precondition for the sustainability of an
operation;environment-friendly agricultural activities should establish a
link between the objectives of environmental protection and tangible
benefits for key stakeholders, specifically including local
communities;the benefits and objectives of the project should be made
known to key stakeholders, if not through active participation, then
through effective public awareness and outreach programs; where
consumptive use of natural resources is an issue, (e.g., grazing, hunting,
fishing, and use of agricultural land), resource users must be
substantively involved in the design of sustainable resource management
systems, and effective monitoring and control mechanisms need to be
developed and applied; decentralized responsibility for financial and
project management (e.g., as in the Romania Danube Delta Biodiversity
Project) builds local ownership and sustainability of project activities;
applied research and monitoring programs should be site-specific and
targeted to provide direct support for effective conservation
management;substantial capacity exists at the local and national levels,
but counterpart training and specialized support for project related
activities such as procurement, disbursement, supervision, financial
management, etc., is a must; anddissemination of information about the
benefits of improved environmental management is critical to the
widespread adoption of new technologies and practices.The project will
incorporate these experiences and build on them specifically by: (i)
addressing the links between socio-economic issues and
environment-friendly agricultural practices, (ii) building both the local
and national capacity for reduction of nutrient loads into the groundwater
and surface water including the Black Sea; and (iii) ensuring a
participatory and transparent approach to project preparation and
implementation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The major environmental issue is reducing the
amount of nutrients leaching into the groundwater or flowing directly into
the river systems and then into the Black Sea. The thrust of this project
is to decrease this flow through land use management in the polder and
partial restoration, appropriate manure and solid waste management and
improved agricultural practices. The project cannot be successful without
the full co-operation of the farmers. Therefore, it has been designed and
will be implemented in a participatory manner so as to have the maximum
environmental (and financial) impact on the area. Hence, no major adverse
environmental impacts are envisaged.As part of component 1, the project
- 6 -



will provide for 6,750 manure storage bunkers at individual farmer's
homesteads to store manure from their domestic animals and 14
village-level manure storage facilities. The environmental concerns under
this component may include leakage of the manure from the village-level
storage facilities (if construction is not made according to
specifications), inappropriate manure spreading in the fields and improper
cleaning of the individual manure storage tanks and large manure
platforms. An environmental assessment has been made and mitigating
measures proposed to address these environmental issues are given in Annex
11. Also, an environmental management plan has been developed to ensure
that activities undertaken under this component will be closely monitored
with regular inspections by the local environmental agency(ies). Farmers
will be advised on measures to address any adverse environmental impacts
arising out of inappropriate manure management. All civil works that the
project will support will be subject to review and approval by the local
environmental authorities. In order to encourage the widespread adoption
of environment-friendly practices, grants for investment in manure storage
and handling systems would be part of a package of environment-orientated
measures to be promoted at the comuna/village level. A contract would be
drawn up between the PMU and the comuna/village council covering the
assistance for manure systems, introduction of agro-forestry on comuna
land and better management practices for communal grazing lands. Also, the
comuna/village council would commit to working with farmer and family
associations on the adoption of environment-friendly agricultural
practices on privately owned land.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jitendra P. Srivastava
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-8975
Fax: 202-614-0698
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
-7 -



