                                                                                                           94413
When Nutrients Strangle Life…
                                                                                                        July 16, 2009
How Romanians are keeping harmful fertilizers from killing their fish and polluting their water

WASHINGTON, July 16, 2009 - Discharges of nutrients, like nitrogen and phosphorus, are
among the most serious pollutants degrading the Black Sea ecosystem. More than half of the
nutrients that flow down the Danube River to the Black sea are of agricultural origin, and
Romania was a major polluter of the Black Sea a decade ago.

                                     In 2001 Romania was on the path of EU accession and
                                     facing the challenge of harmonizing with the EU
                                     environmental agreements. Given its large agriculture sector,
                                     the EU Directive on protecting water against pollution with
                                     agricultural nutrients ("the Nitrates Directive") was of special
                                     importance.
                                     After communism collapsed in Romania so did collective
                                     farms. Excessive application of fertilizers had thus ceased to
Water quality in some villages has   be the main source of nutrient pollution due to the phasing
improve since manure collection      out of subsidies for mineral fertilizers in the early 1990s. The
and storage started.                 main source of nutrient pollution was the inappropriate
                                     unprotected storage of manure in backyards and on farm
Multimedia                           grounds as well as dumping of manure on roadsides and in
  Video: When Nutrients              open public spaces.
  Strangle Life...
                                     Individuals like Moise Paraschiv, a former truck driver, began
                                     cultivating small plots and raising farm animals. Soon so
Related Links
                                     many subsistent farmers like Moise were keeping cows, pigs
  In Depth: Romania Results          and chickens in their backyards that small villages like
                                     Vâlcele faced the same problem as huge live stock
  Project Story: Romania Has         operations: runoff.
  Become a Regional Power
                                     Animal waste leached into the soil polluting wells, the only
  Exchange Leader
                                     drinking water in many villages and rivers. The nitrates in
                                     manure help algae to grow, which depletes oxygen and kill
  Project Story: When
                                     fish in rivers that discharge into the Danube which leads to
  Nutrients Strangle Life
                                     the Black Sea.

“InProject Story: Mine Closure
    my opinion  when the water is so polluted, it brings germs and all kinds of diseases,” said
   Opening New Windows Of
Moise Paraschiv. Agricultural pollution also had more harmful consequences for the rural
   Opportunity For Romania
population. Run-off caused contamination of drinking water wells which caused nitrate
poisoning among infants.
In 1997, in the Calarasi County, the pilot project area, an analysis of samples from 45 public
wells revealed that over 79% of the samples exceeded acceptable levels of chemical content
and 76% of samples exceed bacteriological standards. Poor families who could not afford
bottled water were affected most.

Now, with the World Bank’s support, a municipal service takes away the muck collected on
the storage bin built on Moise’s farm, for about 30 dollars a year. It’s collected on a large
manure platform built and equipped with the Project funding. Over time, the manure
transforms into harmless fertilizer which is then sold to large farms.

Vâlcelele’s mayor Mircea Vasile met resistance when he embraced the idea of manure
collection, a programme that required community participation.

“It was hard to convince people that there was only one location suitable for storing manure;
after that the most difficult thing was to convince people to accept the tax for collecting it,” he
said. The villagers also got involved in helping to plant rows of acacia trees to provide wind
and snow brakes and help protect streams from nutrient runoff.

After the World Bank project in this part of Romania, manure collection is now so popular in
Valcelele that the villagers bought a garbage truck to pick up household waste. It’s still a
novelty for young and old alike. Water quality in this village and others has improved since
manure collection and storage started and the program has expanded. But hundreds of
villages across the country still need to keep manure from polluting the water for themselves
and those downstream.

Romania's rapid development is expected to lead to renewed intensification of agriculture
which Romanian policymakers aim at counterbalancing through improved fertilization
techniques and proper storage and use of manure as part of “Good Agricultural Practices”. As
an EU Member State, agricultural subsidies are contingent on whether farmers can prove they
are following these good environmental practices.

Policymakers consider the Agricultural Pollution Control Project a successful pilot to test and
demonstrate these practices under Romanian conditions and have devised a strategy for
country-wide implementation. A follow-on project - the Integrated Nutrient Pollution Control
Project - was designed to support the Government of Romania to more fully meet the EU
Nitrates Directive requirements by scaling up these practices while reducing nutrient discharges
to water bodies, promoting behavioral change at the community level, and strengthening
institutional and regulatory capacity.

The project supports a menu of investments focusing on “Nitrate Vulnerable Zone” communes
in ten river basins and eleven counties. It is also helping to build capacity within the Ministry of
Environment and Sustainable Development and the National Administration for Romanian
Waters, as well as in other national, regional, and county agencies involved with the nitrates
directive.
