Documen
The World
For OMCAL L
Repwt No. 9936
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1196-ZA)
OCTOBER 9, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onI in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
IJ



CURRENCYEOUIVALENIS
Currency Unit                        Zambian Kwacha (K)
USS1.00                              K 0.9- (1982)
US$1.00                              K Vf7 (1988)
1 SDR                                K 1.12 (1982)
1 SDR                                K 10.7 (1988)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                       10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)          =           2.204 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)       =           1,000 kg = 2,204 lb
1 liter (1)                          0.26 US gallon = 2.1 pints
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVITA IONS
AFC               -      Agricultural Finance Company
ARPT              -      Adaptive Research Planning Team
CFC               -      Cattle Finance Company
DPB               -      Dairy Produce Board
GNP               -      Gross National Product
GRZ               -      Government of the Republic of Zambia
IDA               -     International Development Association
IFAD              -      Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development
LINTCO            -      Lint and Cotton Company Ltd.
MAWD              -      Ministry of Agriculture and Wate- Development
NRDC              -      Natural Resources Development College
PAO               -      Provincial Agricultural Officer
PMU               -      Project Management Unit
PVO               -      Provincial Veterinary Officer
SAR               -      Staff Appraisal Report
SDDP              -      Smallholder Dairy Development Project
SPCMU             -      Southern Province Cooperative and Marketing Union
UNZA              -     The University of Zambia
ZADL              -      Zambia Agricultural Development Ltd.
ZIMCO             -      Zambia Investment and Mining Company
GQOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL UUn ONLY
TNE WOtLD BANK
W?0ingto, O C 20433
U S A
OUt. of of.tedneCw".
October 9, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Zambia
Smaltholder Dairy Development Proiset (Credit 1196-ZA)
Attached, for your information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Smallholder Dairy Development Project (credit
1196-ZA), prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has rauictd dittibution *nd may be used by recipients only in the ptfofuerce
of their officw dutus. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without Wod Bank suthuiattion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLPER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR, ', 196-:ZA)
TA,B3LE OF -CONTENT
Page No.
Preface ..............................  ......    i
Evaluation Summary ............   iii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ............   I
Background ............   1
Project Objectives and Description ........          ....        2
Project DE5ign and Organization  .......           .....         3
Project Implementation ............                              4
Redesign of the Project ............                             5
Project Results ............   5
National Impact ............   7
Project Sustainability  ............                             8
Bank Performance ............   9
Borrower Performance ............                               10
Project Relationship ............                               11
Consulting Services ............                                iI
Project Documentation and Data ..................   11
PART I1 PROJECT REVEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction ............                                       12
Project Objectives ............ 12
Project Design and Organization  ......3...... 
Project Implementation .........................15
Project Sustainability  ..........................15
Bank's Performance ...........................16
Borrower's Performance ....... .................16
Lessons Learned .............................17
Statistical Information ..........................17
Conclusion  ................................17
PART ml STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  ....           .....    18
Project Timetable .........  19
Disbursements ............  20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'D)
Project Implementation ........................  21
Project Costs   ..............................                                                           22
Project Finadcing    ...........................                                                         23
Project Results   .............................                                                          24
Status of Covenants   ..........................                                                         25
Staff Missions    .............................                                                          27
MAP !BRD 15776



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1196-ZA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sinallholder Dairy
Development Project in Zambia, for which Credit 1196-ZA in the amount of SDR 6.7
million was approved on December 15, 1981. The project was redesigned and scaled
down subst:.utially in 1983. The credit amount was subsequently reduced to SDR 1.9
million. Tne credit was suspended on May 1, 1987, when the Bank suspended
disbursements to the Government of Zambia. The amount disbursed was SDR 1.32
million.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agricultural Division of the Technical
Department of the Africa Region (Parts I and III) and Part II was prepared by the
Borrower.
The report is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development
Credit Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement and the Project Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPQRT
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1196-ZA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
While the urban demand for milk in Zambia was steadily growing in the 1970s,
domestic supply was sharply declining due to the closure of two thirds of the commercial
dairy farms. The Dairy Produce Board (DPB) was partially meeting the milk shortfall
by reconstituting imported milk powder. This effort was severely constrained by lack
of foreign exchange. The objective of this project was to spearhead the methodology for
increasing the supply of milk from smallholders through strengthening of extension
services, production and distribution of cross-bred dairy cattle, provision oi'-redit, milk
collection and sales services and improvement of producer incentives. The project was
designed as a limited pilot effort in three districts with a view to launching a more
ambitious nation-wide project on the basis of the experience gained.
Project Implementation
The project suffered a traumatic start-up due to administrative and technical
difficulties, which led to a major redesigning and scaling down of the project in scope
and coverage in 1983, a year after implementation started. The credit was reduced by
72% from SDR 6.7 million to SDR 1.9 million. The number of participating farmers
was scaled down from 1,800 to 150. The major reason for this downswing was the
unavailability of cross-bred heifers for distribution to farmers. Zimbabwe, the principal
source of supply, banned the export of breeding animals due to a reduction of its livestock
population during the 1981/82 drought. The second source of breeding heifers was the
Chisamba Ranch run by Zambia Agricultural Development Limited (ZADL), a government
parastatal, which did not cooperate in implementing the cross-breeding program (see para.
8).
Preparation on the part of government to start the project was not adequate.
Counterpart funds were not made available on time as these were not provided in the
forward estimates, and unfamiliarity with IDA procurement procedures considerably
delayed the importation of vehicles. The high degree of coordination expected of the four
government agencies, namely Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development (MAWD),
Dairy Produce Board (DPB), Cattle Finance Company (CFC) and Zambia Agricultural



- iv -
Development Limited (ZADL), responsible for the implementation of different components
of the project did not materialize.
While the project could not get off the ground at the scale initially designed and
envisaged at appraisal, it was successfully implemented in the redesigned scaled down
version, far surpassirir the revised targets. Milk collection and sales even surpassed the
targets of the much larger original project, although much of it was tapping existing rather
thar incrementzl production. In 1987, over one million liters of milk were collected and
sold. In the original project, this level of milk collection would have been achieved in
the fourth year from three times the number of farmers. However, only half of this milk
was incremental production.
Project Impact
The redesigned project's services reached 238 smallhoiders compared to the target of 150.
The p_j+ r,- -pplied 433 cross bred cattle to 115 smallholders. Concentrate feed and
veterinary drugs were supplied at cost. In addition to the daily collection of milk,
veterinary and animal husbandry extension services were provided regularly. Participating
farmers were able to increase their milk production and their incomes. The milk
production achieved by project farmers averaged 1,920 liters per lactation of 240 days
for the cross-bred cows compared to 459 liters over 163 days for the local cows. Calving
percentage at 69% was much higher than projected. Calves of the cross-bred cows were
heavier and grew faster. However, mortality rates of calves and adults remained high,
indicating the ieud for a more irtensive animal health care/extension program. The pilot
project demonstrated a successful integrated system of milk pr'duction by smallholders
rearing crossbred cows supported by extension and marketing services. A proposal was
made in 1988 to incorporate the successful experience into a larger project of significant
impact that would involve 700 farmers raising 2,700 crossbred cows under intensive
management and crossing of 14,000 zebu cows under semi-intensive management. The
incremental milk production of the proposed development was estimated at 14,000 liters
per day. The proposed follow-up did not materialize due to lack of donor finance. IDA
had suspended all of its operations in Zambia since July 1, 1987 because of Government's
default on its credit repayment.
Project Sustainability
The project overcame the financial difficulty caused by IDA suspension of
disbursement in 1987, one year before the closing date of the project. At this juncture,
the Zambian deputy manager took over as project manager. The project serves 238
smallholders and its earnings from the sale of milk and inputs are sufficient to cover the
salary of all project staff while paying project beneficiaries (smallholders) adequate
producer prices for their milk supply. The veterinarians and field extension staff have
developed appropriate technology (crass-breeding of indigenous species) which has been
successfully extended to project beneficiaries. The project has also invested in buildings
for offices and milk selling outlets. However, the continuity of the development started



v 
by the pilot project could be impaired if the project activities are transferred to ZIMCO
(Zambia investment and Mining Company), which has no experience in developmental
matters. If the project activities were transferred to ZIMCO, veterinary and animal
husbandry extension seriices should continue to be provided by the Ministry (para. 22).
A follow-up project that would replicate the success of the pilot would be feasible. The
market and the technology exist. Commercial farmers and smallholders could supply
crossbred heifers. However, improvements would be required in the administration of
an effective extens'on service. Staff with the basic skills are available and, with
appropriate in-service training and some technical assistance, they would be capable of
implementing an expanded project.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from this project are the following:
- Smallholder dairy development in Zambia is viable if cross-bred heifers and inputs
are made available and dependable animal health and extension services are
provided.
- By selling milk in raw or sour form, the project showed that expensive milk
pasteurizing and processing plants are not absolutely essential in the initial stages
of dairy development. Once the profitability of dairy production was recognized
in the farming community, farmers were willing to pay market prices for cross-bred
animals and finance the purchase from their own resources.
- The availability of improved breeding stock is crucial to a dairy development
scheme. The breeding farms to supply these need to be developed three to five
years in advance of the time distribution to farmers is to start, especially when
importation is too expensive.
- Sustained effort in extension and adaptive research would be needed in order to
demonstrate the advantages of supplementary feeding and planted fodder. Although
smallholders readily purchased cross-bred cows and accepted animal health service
advice, extension efforts directed towards improved nutrition succeeded in
convincing only the most progressive farmers. The establishment of improved
fodder was unsuccessful due to the high cost of fencing materials and high labor
requirements.
- Proper orientation of project staff in Bank procurement and disbursement procedures
and more intensive Bank supervision during project start-up would have helped
avoid major procurement and disbursement problems, whose adverse effects were
felt throughout the project life.
- The Bank should consider the active involvement of local staff in resident missions
in supervising project start-ups (para 27).



- vi -
- The designation of a competent local counterpart to co-mange the project from the
outset could not only avoid initial bureaucratic lapses in procurement, funding, and
assignment of qualified staff to the project, but also pave the way for maintaining
better relationships with the management consultants (para 30).



PROJECT COMPLETIQN REPORT
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELQPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1196-ZA)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Proiject Identjuy
- Project Name           Zambia Smallholder Dairy Development Project
- Loan and/or Credit No.    1196-ZA
- RVP Unit               Africa
- Cot ntry              : Zambia
- Sector                 Agriculture
- Subsector              Livestock
B. Background
Agricultural Sector Development Objectives
1.    At the time of app'raisal, despite Zambia's considerable agricultural resource base,
the performance of the sector had been far below its potential. In 1981, it contributed
only about 15 per cent to the GNP. There had been a declining trend in per capita output
of food and food imports had been increasing. The critical constraints to agricultural
development had been ineffective institutions, inadequate capacity to plan and manage
the sector, and inappropriate policies. The development objectives of GRZ for the sector
were to substantially increase agricultural output to meet domestic requirements for the
major staple crops, and to increase import substitution in commodities for which Zambia
has a comparative advantage (e.g., dairy and poultry products and vegetable oils and
cakes). Developing smallholder farming, which had been the least dynamic source of
growth in the post-independence era, was to be given high priority. Not only would this
increase the production of food, but also would directly increase the well-being of the rural
population and increasE effective demand for industrial output. GRZ would strengthen
its extension services, provide foreign exchange for importing essential inputs and provide
better incentives and improved marketing services in support of the sector's development.
2.    In the dairy sub-sector, while the urban demand for milk was steadily growing,
domestic supply for this market, which depended heavily on large scale commercial
production, had declined significantly (from 15 million kg. p.a. in 1964 to, respectively,
10.5 and 5.5 million kg p.a. in 1974 and 1980). This was mainly a consequ1..ce of the
reduction in the number of commercial dairy farms from about 120 in 1964 to 40 in 1974
because of uncertainties in land tenure policy and the future of these farms after
independence. The prevailing low milk prices which were Government controlled also
contributed to this reduction. The Dairy Produce Board (DPB), a parastatal monopoly,
was partially meeting the shortfall in milk supply by reconstituting imported milk powder.



- 2 -
TIhis effort was being severely constrained because of lack of foreign exchange due to
Zambia's unfavorable trade baiance. The project, with em:phasis on smallholder dairy
production was therefore, part of the GRZ's strategy to reduce import dependence and
to improve rural income and well-being.
C. Project Objectives and Description
a. Project Objectives
3.    The objective of this project was to spearhead the methodology for substantially
increasing the supply ot milk from smallholder production through strengthening extension
services, production and distribution of cross-bred dairy cattle, provision of credit and
milk collection and selling services, and imnro'ed incentives to producers.
4.    As substantial technical and social difficulties were foreseen at appraisal in
developing commercial milk production from small-scale subsistence farms, the project
was designed as a limited pilot effort in three districts (Mazabuka, Monze and Kabwe).
It was anticipated that a more ambitious nationwide dairy production, processing and
marketing project would be launched at a later stage on the basis of the experience gained.
The project would, over a six year period, assist about 1,800 farmers develop pastures
and water supplies, acquire improved dairy stock ard adopt improved husbandry practices
and produce surplus milk for sale. The project would support this development through
coi -tlinated provision of technical services in animal husbandry and health care extension,
input supplies, credit, milk marketing and training programs for both farmers and the
extension cadre.
b. Project Components
5.    Specifically, the project would finance the following components:
(a) Farmn Development. Technical services in farm development and training in dairy
production would be provided to two categories of farmners.  About 600
progressive farmers (Type A) would be assisted to develop dairy production units
with five cross-bred cows and a cross-bred bull. The natural pasture would be
fenced and farmers would grow forage. Credit would be available to finance farm
investment. Farmers would put up 20% equity and the labor required to intensify
production. Type A farms wouid be developed in clusters cf 8 to 10 v ithin 4 km.
of milk collection centers to be established along all weather roads. About 1,200
traditional farmers (Type B) would take advantage of the improved extension and
veterinary service and the milk collection system to sell surplus milk. Credit
would be provided to this group to purchase cross-bred bulls. Annual incremental
milk production would reach 1.4 million liters at the end of PY5 of the project
and 2.3 million liters at the end of PY10.
(b) Extension and Veterinay Services would be intensified and improved in the three



- 3 -
districts. Staff would receive specialized raining in dairy production, and additional
veterinary staff would be provided along with three expatriate volunteer veterinary
officers. Project funds would be available for the procurement of vehicles,
motorcycles, equipment, housing and veterinary inputs. Cattle wouid be vaccinated
annually and sprayed regularly against ticks. Calves would be dewormed three times
during the year. Participating farmers would be trained in dairy husbandry at fanner
training centers.
(c) C,Li.  The Cattle Finance Company (CFC) would administer the credit
component to participating dairy farmers. Project funds would provide for the
incremental investment in office buildings, office equipment and vehicles
necessary to administer and supervise the credit.
(d) Heifer Farm Development and Production. As there was no adequate and reliable
supply of cross-bred cattle in Zambia, project funds would be provided to convert
the Government-owned Chisamba Ranch to producing cr.ss-bred cattle. The
project would finance capital improvements in ranch infrastructure, vehicles,
tractors, equipment and staff housing as well as the services of an experienced
expatriate ranch manager. The ranch would rear 4,000 livestock units supplying
about 550 cross-bred heifers p.a., which would only meet 55% of the project's
need of 1,000 heifers in PY3. The remaining heifers would be supplied from
other parastatal and private commercial farms.
(e) Milk Collection Services. DPB would establish a milk collection system in the
project area. Funds would be provided to establish and operate 25-30 milk
collection depots and two milk cooling centers, and to acquire a fleet of milk
collection vehicles and equipment and supplies to operate the system.
(f) Project Manent Unit (P .  A PMU would be established under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development (MAWD) for implementation
and execution of the project. A project manager and financial controller would
be internationally recruited.
D. Projec Design and Organization
6.    The project was well prepared and the conceptual foundation of the project was
sound at the time of prepaation. Although the attempt to intensify smaUlholder dairy
production using cross-bred animals might have been innovative in Zambia, the concept
was familiar in Bank financed projects in Kenya, Ethiopia, and Tanzania as well is in
other parts of the world. In retrospect, the scope and scale of implementation seem to
have been overambitious, given the limited availability of Zambian management and
extension staff. Although there seems to have been a good understanding of the project
by the four participating institutions at the time of preparation (i.e., MAWD, DPB, CFC
and ZADL), the high degree of coordination required in its implementation proved difficult
to achieve and the project suffered immense administrative problems soon after



- 4 -
implementation started. There was little preparatory work done on the part of the GRZ
to start its implementation.  The supply of -cross bred heifers for distribution to
participating farners heavily depended on the importation of cross-bred heifers from
Zimbabwe and the output of Chisamba Ranch to be developed under the project. Neither
of these supplies could materialize during the implementation of the project. Zimbabwe
had imposed a ban on the export of breeding animals due to the reduction of the livestock
population during the drought of 1981/82. Chisamba Ranch could not get off the ground
due to lack of cooperation from ZADL (see para. 8). The lack of adequate supply of cross
bred heifers and the administrative and financial problems the project encountered during
the first year of implementation led to a major redesign of the project which reduced its
scope and size substantially (Section V). While the project could not develop at the scale
initially designed and envisaged in the SAR, it was successfully implemented in the
redesigned scaled down version.
E. Project Implementation
7.    Implementation of the project started in November 1982.  It experienced a
traumatic start-up and soon tumed into a problem project involving technical,
administrative, and financial factors. The administrative and financial problems stemmed
mainly from GRZ's lengthy bureaucratic procedures involved in securing approval of
tenders for procurement of vehicles and equipment for the project. These problems were
compounded by the poor performance of the first expatriate project manager supplied by
the management consultants, who had to be repatriated six months after his arrival (para.
32). Unfamiliarity with Bank procurement and disbursement procedures added to these
problems. Budgetary constraints and administrative lapses during preparation and
submission of budget estimates by MAWD prevented GRZ from providing counterpart
funds directly to the institutions implementing different components of the project, which
complicated and finally impaired coordination of project activities.
8.    The major .ause for redesigning the project was a technical problem related to
what was essentially the core of the project, i.e., the availability and supply of cross bred
heifers and bulls to participating farmers. In the project design, ZADL was to retain
ownership of Chisamba Ranch but the PMU through the Ranch Manager was to manage
and develop the ranch for production of cross-bred heifers and bulls for supply to the
project. Serious misunderstandings developed on the question of responsibility for running
the ranch and little progress was made in developing the ranch at the end of the first year.
The Projt;ct had to rely on the parastatal Batoka Dairy Crossbreeding Ranch and
commercial ranches for its supply of cross-breds. These could supply only 100 heifers
and 50 bulls per year. The quality of cross brecs supplied to project farmers from Batoka
was extremely poor and farmers expressed dissatisfaction and disappointment with their
milk production. When in the end the EEC provided technical and financial assistance
to rehabilitate the Batoka Ranch, the plan to make Chisamba a cross breeding ranch was
altogether dropped.
9.    This led to a major redesigning and scaling down of the project in scope and



- 5 -
coverage resulting in substantial amendment and restatement of the Credit Agreement in
1986. Tle Crdit amount was reduced by 72 % from SDR 6.7 million to SDR 1.9 million.
The number of participating farmers was reduced from 1,800 to 150 in two districts
(Mazabuka and Monze) instead of three.
F. Redesign of the Project
10.   In view of the serious implementation problems that arose, particularly the supply
of heifers, the Bank requested GRZ, in November 1983, to prepare redesign proposals
for the Bank's consideration. By that time, only $0.2m of the credit amount of $7.5m
had been disbursed (October 31, 1983). The Bank assisted GRZ in the redesigning
exercise. The agreed upon redesigned project retained the original objectives but activities
and targets were substantially scaled down, and the revised target group of up to 150 A
type farmers was confined to two districts, Mazabuka and Monze. On-farm investment
was similar to the original project but generally simpler and excluded pasture establishment
as participating farmers had earlier shunned this due to the high costs and labor
requirements involved.
11.   The PMU was brought directly under the Senior Dairy Officer. Field level animal
husbandry and veterinary staff were made to report directly to the PMU. Investment for
Chisamba cross breeding ranch was deleted. Milk was to be collected and marketed
through the PMU, with anticipated DPB involvement as production increased to a level
where fresh milk collection became feasible. There was no specific provision for assembly
depots or milk collection centers. The participation of CFC was deleted. Credit was to
be provided by existing Government and commercial institutions. The cost of the pilot
project was reduced for the four year period (1985-88) from SDR 6.7 to 1.9 million,
including provision for evaluation and possible preparation of follow-on project in 1987.
IDA also agreed to raise financing of local expenditures from 70-80% to 90%.
G. Projict Results
12.   Implementation of the project in its redesigned and scaled-down form was very
successful, far surpassing its targets. Its services reached 238 smallholders compared to
the targeted 150. Milk collection and sales even surpassed the targets of the much larger
original project. In 1987, the project collected and sold over one million liters of milk.
In the original project, this ievel of milk collection would have been achieved in the fourth
year from tre times the number of farmers. However, the milk collected by the project
was not all incremental production as foreseen in the original project. Although the
records are unclear, about half of the milk collected and sold came from existing
production which found easy access to market. In fact, commercial farmers, who found
the project's prompt payment more attractive than the DPBs delayed payment, supplied
as much as 20% of the total milk collected in 1987/88.
13.   The project supplied 367 cross bred heifers and 66 bulls to 115 farmers.
Participating farmers were able to improve their milk production. Most farmers obtained



6 -
milk yields of about 8 liters per cow per day. However, progressive farmers who gave
their cross-bred cows supplementary concentrate feed milked as much as 15-20 liters per
cow per day. During a two year period from June 1986 to June 1988, the project supplied
3,000 metric tons of concentrate feed to participating farmers. The average production
for project farms was 1920 liters per lactation of 240 days for the cross-bred cows as
compared to 459 liters of 163 days for the local cows. Cross-bred calves reared by
participating farmers grew faster than calves of local breeds and were on average 25 kg
heavier at six months of age. Although the time was too short to establish definitive
productivity parameters, calving percentage at 69% was slightly better than expected, calf
mortality was about 20% as expected, but adult mortality of 14% was twice the rate
expected. This indicates that animal health care/extension needs to be intensified with
the introduction of cross-bred heifers under smallholder management conditions.
14.   Farmers who supplemented their lactating cross-bred cow obtained a net income
of about K 1252 ($155) per cow per year. Those who did not obtained about half as
much. The financial rate of return to the majority of participating farmers who do not
feed supplements to their cows was 31%. More than 75% of participating farmers
reported that because of their milk income they no longer sought credit to purchase seed
and fertilizer. Producer prices have progressively risen from K 0.47 per liter in 1982
to K 1.90 in 1987 and K. 2.90 in 1989.
15.   The project's extension efforts concentrated on animal health care and improved
nutrition. Although farmers willingly and enthusiastically purchased cross-bred dairy cattle
and accepted aiimal health service advice, extension efforts directed towards improved
nutrition of the lactating cow and her calf through supplemental feeding succeeded in
convincing only the most progressive farmers. Establishment of improved fodder was
unsuccessful due to the high cost of fencing materials and high labor requirements. The
project showed that it would take much sustained effort in extension and adaptive research
to demonstrate the advantages of supplementary feeding and planted fodder.
16.   An innovation not foreseen in the design but introduced during project
implementation was selling milk directly to consumers through outlets known as milk bars
in the small towns of Mazabuka, Monze and Kabwe. What prompted this innovation was
the project's frustration in selling direct to DPB creameries as originally planned. The
creameries not only paid late but also rejected large amounts of project milk because of
its sourness. In seeking a means of disposing of this rejected milk, the project discovered
that sour milk was so popular in Zambia that it could sell all the milk it had directly to
consumers. The health officials gave permission to the project to sell raw fresh and sour
milk directly to consumers provided that these products were free of tuberculosis and
brucellosis and that clients were advised to boil the fresh milk before drinking it. All
animals in the herds of milk suppliers were subsequently tested for reactors to these
diseases and the few found positive were slaughtered.
17.   The sour milk sold by the project is so popular that the supply at the milk bars
is exhausted by mid-day. The milk is sold at the project's milk bars in two liter plastic



- 7-
bags. The price of the plastic container is discounted for those who bring their own
containers. The project owes a good measure oT its success to this marketing technique
which produced immediate cash upon sales. The project was able to pay farmers promptly
once a month after deducting short term loans for supplementary feed, veterinary drugs
and cattle. The lesson to be learned from this experience is that a sophisticated processing
plant requiring a large investment is not a prerequisite for developing smallholder dairy
production. Throughout much of Sub-Saharan Africa, raw milk is sold by farmers to their
village clients, who either boil it or sour it before drinking. Investment ;n processing
plants could be added at a latter stage, when transporting and marketing large quantities
makes it economically feasible.
18.   Another interesting lesson from the project's experience was farmers' ability to
be readily convinced to self-finance the purchase of improved breeding stock. After two
years of project implementation, farmers in the project area saw the benefit of the
improved dairy cows and were willing to buy cross-bred heifers and bulls from commercial
farmers at one and a half to twice the price of those provided by the project. In general,
the peiformance of these was far superior to those supplied by the project. Realizing that
farmers were selling their local animals to finance these purchases and that this was a
desirable action that would help in reducing the number of animals on participating farms,
the project stopped financing the acquisition of cross-bred cattle on credit in 1986, after
having disbursed only K 412,082 ($51,500). Subsequently, short-tern credit at 1% per
month was given against deductions from milk sales.
H. National ImDa
19.   While the project, supplying less than 2 % of marketed milk production, was too
small to have an appreciable macro-economic impact on the livestock sector and the
national economy, it demonstrated that indeed great potential exists in smallhclder dairy
production in Zambia. Milk production needs to be substantially increased in view of
the large deficit (134,000 tons) projected in the 1990s and the serious foreign exchange
problem the country faces in importing milk powder, the price of which increased
markedly in recent years. Producer prices have progressively increased in recent years,
thus providing good incentives for increasing investment and production. The project has
trained a small number of Zambians in dairy extension, dairy technology and the
management of input supply and distribution and milk collection and sales, which can
be used as a nucleus for further expansion of smallholder dairy development in the
country. The pilot project demonstrated a successful integrated system of milk production
by smallholders rearing crossbred cows supported by extension and marketing services.
A proposal was made in 1988 to incorporate the successful experience into a larger project
of significant impact that would involve 700 farmers raising 2,700 crossbred cows under
intensive management and crossing of 14,000 zebu cows under semi-intensive
management. The incremental milk production of the proposed development was estimated
at 14,000 liters per day. However, the proposed folow-up project did not materialize
because of lack of donor finance. IDA had suspended all its in Zambia since July 1, 1987
because of Government's default on its credit repayment.



8-
I. P_oject Sustainability
20.   The project is ongoing and is sustaining its activities, despite the financial difficulty
it faced when the Bank suspended all disbursements to GRZ on July 1, 1987, one year
before the closing date of the project, because of the Borrower's default on making loan
repayments to the Bank. At that time, one third of the project loan was undisbursed.
The Zambian deputy manager took over as Project Manager in July 1988, when the
contract of the expatriate manager terminated at the closing date of the project. He has
been able to sustain and expand the activities of the project with little financial assistance
from GRZ. The project has succeeded in paying the salaries of all its staff, including
the Zamnbian project manager, entirely from its milk trading operations and has managed
to have a small surplus for ins stment in purchasing buildirgs for officzs and milk selling
outlets. Its trading margin in 1988 was K 1.14 ($0.14) per liter. It paid an average of
K 1.93 ($0.24) per liter to producers and charged consumers K 3.07 ($0.38)per liter.
In 1989, price to the producer was raised to K 2.90 ($0.29) per liter, while consumers
were charged K 5.00 ($0.50). The producer price provides the farmers with sufficient
incentive to produce while the margin of K 2.10 ($0.21) was necessary for covering
project operating costs in the absence of any subvention from GRZ.
21.   In addition to institutional capacity to handle project activities which has been
adequately demonstrated, the staff has the technological expertise to solve the technical
issues facing the project. The project has developed cross-breeding techniques with
indigenous species which are high yielding. This technique has been effectively extended
to project beneficiaries through extension and research. Furthermore, the project's foreign
exchange requirements to purchase imported goods are so minimal that it would not impose
a major danger to project sustainability.
22.   However, the pilot project is facing a major obstacle to its sustainability. The
project is currently being managed under the umbrella of the DPB. The GRZ has decided
to place DPB under the management of Zambia Investment and Mining Company
(ZIMCO). This raises the issue of where the organizational responsibility for the project
should lie. ZIMCO is a parastatal conglomerate guided primarily by the profit-making
motive, while the activities of the project are developmental and cannot be judged on
the basis of an attractive business concem, at least at this initial stage. It could be
difficult to get this point across to ZIMCO and obtain its support, since its management
is not accustomed to this type of activity. It is conceivable that ZIMCO may take over
the project together with DPB. Should this happen, veterinary and animal husbandry
extension services should continue to be provided by the Ministry. The other alternative
arrangement is retaining the project under the wings of MAWD as an autonomous project
supervised by a high level Steering Committee composed of the Chief Dairy Officer, the
Chief Veterinarian, the Director of Planning, representatives from DPB, AFC and
producers' associations until the project is eventually steered towards developing itself
into a National Dairy Producers Cooperative along the lines of the Anand model in India.
Where the project is eventually housed could well determine its continued viability and



9
sustinability.
23.   In view of the large deficit of milk projected for the 1990s in excess of 130,000
tons of powdered milk and the demonstrated ability of Zambian smallholders to quadruple
their milk production, a follow-up project involving a large number of farmers and
covering the hinterlands of the principal urban centers would be feasible. The market
and the technology exist. Commercial farners and smallholders could supply crossbred
heifers. However, improvements would be required in the administration of an effective
animal health and husbandry extension services. Staff with the basic skills are available
and, with appropriate in-service training and some technical assistance, they would be
capable of implementing an expanded project.
J. Bank Performance
24.   While the Bank's performance with respect to the preparation and appraisal of
the project can be rated as excellent, it did not closely supervise project implementation
during the first year, when serious administrative and financial problems bogged down
implementation. Once these and the heifer supply problem were discovered, the project
officer moved swiftly in causing a major redesign of the project to a manageable scale.
From then on, the project was regularly supervised twice a year.
25.   The Bank kept close consultation and liaison with FAO/CP from the identification
of the project in 1979 to its full preparation in late 1980. The preparation report was
thoroughly reviewed by several Bank staff, who raised important issues with respect to
project organization and management, the weaknesses of state operated enterprises in
Zambia and the project's heavy dependence on their performance and the inability of the
GRZ to provide the incremental staff and funds to implement the project. The project
was promptly appraised in February 1981. Issues of major concern were discussed and
assurances obtained from GRZ on resolving the problems. There were no major delays
in preparing the SAR, getting decisions on the Credit amount, completing negotiations
and obtaining Board approval in December 1981.
26.   The task of project supervision was given to the Regional Mission in Eastern
Africa in February 1982, at which time Bank staff from RMEA visited Zambia and
discussed a list of actions GRZ should take for the loan to be effective and for starting
up the project. The following month, a Bank staff briefed the accounting personnel of
DPB, CFC and ZADL on the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures. The
first supervision mission by the Bank project officer took place at the end of March, 1982.
He advised that advance preparation be made for procurement of project vehicles and
equipment before the expatriate project manager's arrival. He also expressed doubt that
suitable cross-bred cattle would be available in the numbers required to stock Chisamba
Ranch and supply farmers during the first phase of the project. Unfortunately, the next
supervision mission did not take place until one year later, during which time major
administrative and financial problems had developed.



- 10 -
27.   The lesson to be learned by the Bank from this project is that very close
supervision is necessary during project start-up in order to avoid major slips whose adverse
effect might be felt throughout the life of the project. The Bank might consLder the active
involvement of local staff in Resident Missions ir, supervising project start-ups.
Furthermore, adequate steps should be taken to thoroughly familiarize project and
ministerial finance officers with Bank procurement and disbursement procedures in order
to avoid inordinate delays in the first procurement of goods and services, which can
paralyse project start-up.
K. Borrower Performance
28.   The Borrower's performance during project identification, preparation, appraisal
and negotiations was satisactory. Its performance rapidly deteriorated with the start-up
of the project. There seems to have been inadequate preparation by the GRZ for the start-
up of the project despite the check list agreed upon with the Bank. There were long delays
and difficulties in procurement of vehicles, and equipment, provision of housing for staff,
which adversely affected the proposed development of Chisamba Ranch and the
effectiveness of the PMU and extension and veterinary staff. The project could not attract
qualified staff due to inadequate housing in the project areas. The expatriate Project
Manager and Financial Controller could not successfully work through the lengthy
Government procurement and tendering procedures. Failure of the GRZ to designate a
Zambian deputy project manager in time significantly contributed to these problems.
Budgetary constraints and administrative lapses during preparation and submission of
budget estimates by MAWD prevented GRZ from providing counterpart funds directly
to ZADL (ranch development), CFC (farmer credit) and DPB (milk collection system)
as required under the project subsidiary loan agreements. Consequently, MAWD
reallocated part of the allocations for PMU for 1983 to ZADL and CFC in an attempt
to implement project activities. This decreased the funds available for PMU's operations.
There was considerable confusion in MAWD and the three agencies involved over the
question of budgetary request and allocations, and with the inability of MAWD to provide
strong co-ordination and leadership as earlier envisaged, the implementation of major
project activities through a number of independent agencies was seriously impaired.
29.   GRZ was able to deploy only four of the eight animal husbandry and veterinary
staff required by the project. Several of these were of low caliber. A Zambian deputy
project manager was designated only in 1986, more than three years after the project
started. One Norwegian and two Danish volunteers provided much needed technical
support to the project's extension activities. The PMU was first placed under the
supervision of the Director of Planning, MAWD, and later in 1986 under the DPI?. The
DPB did not take keen and active interest in guiding and supervising project activities.
30.   The important lesson for the Borrower arising from this project is that the
designation of a competent Zambian to co-manage the project from the outset could have
prevented the initial bureaucratic lapses in procurement and financing, arranged for the
assignment of qualified staff to the project, and perhaps maintained better relationships



- 11 -
with the management consultants.
L. Proiect Relationship
31.   There was a cordial relationship between Bank and borrower staff throughout the
life of the Project. The redesigning exercise went smoothly with full participation of both
parties. The relationship remained solid despite the fact that the suspension of
disbursement of loan funds by the Bank in mid-1987 undoubtedly created uneasy feelings
among Zarnbian officials and project staff who rightly felt that the success they were
achieving would come to a standstill.
M.   nsulting Se
32.   Senior management for the implementation of the project was contracted out to
a consulting firm, which supplied a project manager, financial controller and a ranch
manager for the development of Chisamba Ranch. During the initial phase of the project,
the performance of the consultant management team was below expectations. GRZ
requested the firm to repatriate the project manager six months after his arrival. Some
improvement was brought about by the successor, who stayed until his contract ended
in June 1986. The third project manager provided by the firm was both competent and
dynamic. The success of the redesigned project is attributable largely to his efforts and
the dedicated and capable Zambian deputy manager assigned to work with him.
N. Proiect Documentation and Data
33.   The legal agreement did not present any problems during implementation. The
Bank and the Borrower agreed to amend it twice to facilitate project implementation. The
SAR was abandoned one year after project implementation started as the prevailing
situation could not allow its implementation. Tre SAR envisaged that a full-time
monitoring and evaluation officer would be assigned to the project. This did not
materialize under the much reduced project. Consequently, no time series data on the
technical and financial performance of farmers under the project is available. However,
in 1987 the project conducted a one-off sample survey of participating farmers which
provided good data on basic farm characteristics and costs and returns of farm enterprises.



- 12 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE I/
Introduc oQ
34.   At the time of inception of SDDP in 1982, government policy towards agricultural
development was going through a period of significant changes, placing strong emphasis
on livestock development with particular interest in the dairy industrv. At that time, 60%
of marketed milk.came from 40 commercial farmers while 100,000 traditional cattle
owners produced around 30 million liters annually, mainly for home or village level
cons 1mption. Milk intake by the Dairy Produce Board declined continuously from 18
million liters in 1964 to 8.9 million liters in 1979 and rising to 11.2 million liters in 1982.
This trend was attributed to unattractive producer prices and land tenure uncertainties on
the part of commercial formners.
35.   The involvement of small scale farmers in milk production through Rural Milk
Production Schemes and Dairy Tenant Settlement Schemes produced some success
although progress was constrained by relatively low producer prices, limited credit
facilities, insufficient supply of suitable cross-bred dairy heifers and bulls, high mortality
rates, high incidence of disease, inadequate extension services, prohibitive customary cattle
rearing and ownership patterns, and delays in issuing of title deeds at dairy settlement
schemes. Progress of the schemes has been rather slow and performance of individual
farmers variable. Government investment outlay in smalUholder dairy programs was very
high relative to the amount of development achieved to the extent that farmers have tended
to be over-dependent upon services provided by the Government. It has also been
recognized that the planned farming systems have essentially been too sophisticated and
not always commensurate with the farmers' degree of technological advancement.
36.   In line with the priorities of the Third National Development Plan, the Project
Management Unit of Smallholder Dairy Development Project was given the task of
increasing milk production and income potential of about 1, 800 smallholder dairy farmers,
especially in the Mazabuka and Monze districts of the Southern Province with subsequent
expansion to Kabwe district in Central Province. This was to be achieved through the
introduction of improved herd management and production techniques and of milk
collection and marketing services; and development of a dairy cattle breeding ranch to
produce heifers for distribution to smallholders to improve milk and beef production
potential.
PrQject Obigaives
37.   The project underwent several changes in design as the weaknesses in the original
design were identified by both the World Bank and the Zambian Government. However,
I/ Transcript of letter received from the Ministry of Agriculture.



- 13 -
the project objectives remained intact but with a smaller target group. The lack of
adequate flnds, resulting from the termination-of funding by the World Bank and the
almost negligible flow of funds from the Govemment, prompted the project management
to involve themselves more with the commercial activities (e.g., milk sales and input
supp!y) at the expense of developmental programs like extension and farm development
credit.
38.   From preparation to date, the objectives of the project have remained those of
intensifying extension activities, providing credit to smallholder farmers, supplying
crossbred dairy heifers, dairy input supply and collection and sale of milk in the project
area.
39.   Training for Zambian counterpart staff was the major omission made in the original
set of objectives and this did not auger well with sustainability of the project after the end
of the foreign technical assistance. When the project eventually decided to train staff,
this created an extra financial constraint on it. No provision was made for credit to
participating farmers after the 1986 amendment to the Development Credit Agreement.
This measure had the negative effect of reducing the ability of farmers to increase their
dairy herds and thus increase their milk production.
Protect Design and Orgonization
40.   The original project aimed at assisting 1,800 cattle-owning families in the three
districts, with 600 "more progressive f rners' developing small crossbreed dairy units
and increasing sales from their local c .rde with subsequent stock upgrading.
41.   The appraisal mission's recomi &endatior s for the Smallholder Dairy Development
Project did not differ substantially from those contained in the Project Preparation Report.
The project was designed to provide finra ce for the establishment of a project management
unit to assist farmers with extension and credit support in their dairy activities and to
coordinate the supply of dairy crossbred heifers. The project was also meant to undertake
the collection and marketing of milk (fresh and sour) from the smallholder farmers for
onward selling to the Dairy Produce Board.
42.   Implementation commenced in late 1982 but within two years of implementation,
serious problems were encountered which led to major redesign. Key factors that led to
the early failure of the original SDDP concept and the subsequent redesign included the
lack of preparedness on the part of the project management, the Zambian Government,
local institutions, and procurement delays. The project design was unnecessarily ambitious
in terms of the number of participating farmers and slow rate of build-up, particularly
for a pilot project, due to lack of base knowledge and local information.
43.   An IDA mission of June 1983, in conjunction with senior representatives of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development, recommended that the project be
redesigned and implemented as a four-year pilot project, reduced in size and scope, and



14 -
that the Chisamba Ranch be abandonea as a source of cross-bred heifers in favor of Batoka
Dairy Crossbreeding Ranch which was at an advanced stage with EEC assistance. It was
recommended that the PMU would be responsible to the Chief Animal Husbandry Officer
on technical matters and to the Director of Planning for general administrative and
implementation matters. The project manager would be internationally recruited to assume
the leadership role. Provision would be made for the recruitment and training of five dairy
extension assistants and three veterinary assistants (VAs) who would render logistical
support. Furthermore, it was suggested that MAWD would, if necessary, engage the
services of consultants during the pilot phase to prepare proposals for the second phase
of the SDDP. In line with this, a Monitoring and Evaluation Officer would be appointed
to the PMU staff. Although the Amended Agreement was signed in 1986, the redesigned
project became informally effective in 1984.
44.   According to the Amended and Restated Development Credit Agreement of 1986,
the scale and cost of off-farrn development was considerably reduced fnr the four-year
period, 1985 to 1988, to SDR 1.9 million, including provision for evaluation and possible
preparation of a follow-up project in 1987.
45.   The redesigned project had a greater simplicity and flexibility of operation which
enabled progress to be effected mort rapidly without the restrictions imposed by multiple
agencies and formal operating procedures. Authority became vested in the project
management, thus facilitating on-spot decision-making and more efficient and effective
coordination in the day-to-day management of the SDDP.
46.   The project, according to the original project design, was to be administered by
the Dairy Produce Board with the Ministry of Agriculture as the implementing agency.
From the original project structure only the Project Management Unit (PMU-SDDP) could
be said to have survived the affiliation wrangle that befell the project just after World Bank
funding was terminated.
47.   The project currently operates with a total Af 255 farmers in Mazabuka, Monze,
Pemba and Kabwe, with Mazabuka being its Heae Office. Each of these district offices
is manned by a district manager who reports to Uhe Project Manager in Mazabuka.
48.   Overall responsibility for policy planning and project coordination and for the
provision of fimds remained with the permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Development, through the Director of Planning, even after February 1986 when
the project w. X placed under the umbrella of DPB.
49.   A Steering Committee comprising representatives from  the Ministries of
Agriculture and Finance and the Dairy Produce Board was instituted in 1987, but this
could not function due to various reasons including sheer apathy, high staff turnover in
the member ministries and conflicts regarding the institutional affiliation of the project.



- 15 -
Eroiect Iml2leMentation
50.   General implementation performance was good, despite the need for changes in
the initial design and, the subsequent withdrawal of IDA funding. The Project
Management Unit performed very well in the execution of the various project activities
under difficult circumstances. The revised management structure proved effective,
although staff turnover was high due to inadequate incentives like housing, training and
a reasonable wage rate. Transport was another constraint to proper project implementation.
Project Results
51.   The project was very popular with the participating farmers and other beneficiaries
in the project area. This was mostly due to the relative profitability of dairy farming over
other major crops.
52.   The project accepted sour milk from farmers and this, coupled with prompt
payment for sales, resulted in more farmers taking up dairy farming - an atmosphere that
the Dairy Produce Board failed to create.
53.   In the later stages of project implementation, the issue of women's involvement
was taken up and great progress was made in partnership with relevant govemment
ministries.
54.   Since most of the milk produced by the participant farmers is consumed within
the project area, there should be no doubt that the project has contributed immensely to
raising of the nutritional status of the rura' people in the particular areas. It was also noted
that the project has been a major source of income for farmers, owing to the high profit
margins and the fact that at the moment there is no other way in which smallholder
farmers can market dairy produce (let alone sour milk) by themselves.
55.   The project has been unable to integrate well into the related organizations since
inception. This has, been due to the inithil implementation problems and the subsequent
redesigning of the project. It was also due to lack of support from the local institutions
that were required to render support.
pon X t suggimbiity
56.   The project could be said to have proved its potential to sustain its operations
without externz funding. The project managed to meet its operations (even though this
vas at the expense of the developmental activities) for three years without considerable
external support while its operational costs were being paid for by its milk and farm input
sales. A fresh injection of funding for capital expenditure will be required if the project
is to be fully established and be capable of meeting its future operational and capital costs.



- 16 -
Bank's Performance
57.   Close professional liaison between the World Bank, ANZDEC and the Project
Management Unit was missing during the implementation of the project. The World Bank
did not supervise the implementation closely enough, especially in the initial and latter
stages. The World Bank should be aware by now that procurement liaison ha., been one
major problem in project implementation. During initial stages, close supervision is
necessary, especially for procurement procedures to be carried out effectively. /\NZDEC
consultants supervised the project regularly twice a year and, together with a World Bank
supervision mission of early 1988, assisted in the preparation of proposals and dairy
development plans for implementation under Phase II.
Borrower's Performance
58.   The Zambian Government did not fully comply with its obligations under the
Credit Agreement. Disbursement of counterpart funds was consistently delayed and
eventually became suspended altogether. From early 1986 until last year, no further
disbursements were made to SDDP for operational and capital expenditures. The project's
recurrent obligations have since been financed from its own operational accounts.
59.   The Project Management Unit maintained close liaison with the Planning Division
of MAWD through the responsible project desk officer, and with the Department of
Agriculture through the Senior Dairy Officer.
60.   Failure by the Government to provide adequate and suitably qualified counterpart
personnel has been one of the major limiting factors to proper project implementation.
Appointment of counterpart staff, particularly the project co-manager, was unnecessarily
delayed until 1986. Instead of the eight veterinary assistants and agricultural assistants
proposed in the Staff Appraisal Report, the project has had no more than four in position
at any time throughout the project life. Only three of these were reliable and genuinely
productive. In spite of the close cooperation of provincial heads of departments,
particularly the Provincial Veterinary Officer, the non-availability of appropriately trained
personnel continued to restrict efficient project operations. It has been recognized that
the Department of Agriculture has general animal husbandry officers whereas the project
needs specialized dairy extension staff. In this effect, the PMU realized that the only way
to achieve effective extension support service was through employment and training of
its own project personnel.
61.   Recently, there has been a positive change of attitude from the government
regarding financial support to the Smallholder Dairy Development Project. A total of
K6,818,000 was allocated to the project for use in replacement of the transport fleet and
construction of staff and office accommodation.



- 17 -
Lessonls L-ae
62.   Agricultural projects that are aimed at covering large areas or target groups should
not forego the advantages inherent in starting such a massive project on a pilot basis. Apart
from allowing for the necessary target group learning process, such an approach also
assists the project management to adjust to the practica aspects of implementation without
having to commit large sums of funds.
63.   The Zambian Govemment needs to change its attitude and start honoring project
agreements especially regarding the provision of counterpart personnel and GRZ funds.
This weakness caused far-reaching implementation problems and had a negative effect
on the sustainabiLity of the project.
Statistical Information
64.   The statistical information provided in Part III of the Bank's completion report
is in conformity with the GRZ's own estimates.
CQonclusion
65.   At the close of the Project, one of the major tasks of the Zambian evaluation team
was to determine the best options for the Smallholder Dairy Development Project. Four
options were proposed: turning SDDP into a cooperative venture; transferring SDDP to
the Department of Agriculture; transferring SDDP to the Dairy Produce Board; or turning
the project into a public limited liability company with management and ownership pattern
based on the LINTCO model.
66.   Having assessed the present technical, financial and economic viability of the
Smallholder Dairy Development Project and its future potential under each of the four
options, the GRZ evaluation team arrived at the conclusion that the SDDP be converted
into a public limited liability company on the lines of the LINTCO model.
67.   Flexibility on the above recommendation option can only be towards the formation
of a cooperative organization. However, the conditional requirements for the success of
a cooperative are so diverse and difficult to meet that extreme cautiorn would be demanded
before undertaking such an option. Therefore, it was recommended that even though a
cooperative oranization would be socially attractive, it would be economically
unacceptable to experiment on this approach at the current stage of the project.



- 18 -
III. STATISTICAL IN-FORMATIQN
'bole 1.  Rtlated  I*u  Loa   welfor Credits
Year of
Loan/Crldit Title          Approval                                  Purpos
:;ffee T*cMrncat Asuistarsc         '973     Rehabilitating Of 50 ha of coffee otantation, establishing of
C 08630                           400 ha of coffee. constructing coffee Processing facilities
and strengthenung coffee research and extension.
Eastern Province                    '981      'creasing croo output of 206000 farm_r  through ir,roved
AgricuLtural 0evotopnt                       agricultural *etesion, research, irput suolios, processing
L ZOO10                           and credit facilities.
Southern Province                   1961      icreasing crop an  Livestock praetion tflroLi  iRiroved
Agrtcuiturai DOvlo""nt                       eAttnoiwn, veterinary & tsetse cortrol, input suLty  credit
C 11930                           and imrKeting services.
Industrial forestry  ill           1986      Increasing proOtli  of tle    from eotic trwe  ty
C 1i373                           strenthtwing    ieg_ it & technicat opewatiorn, igreding log
trnport A haIrlng facilitie, reflilftating sailti:g
eqip o n. foproving wokshop facilities and staff training.
AgriCulturol Rehabilitation         1985     fInwui,g l  rts of mehinwy. spore part, seed  & fertikiter,
C 15450                           structural  djutment to foprve inrkoting  ad irpau distribution.
Fisheries                           19       Incrnasing fish pr iction & fpfwing  services for fisheren
C 15290                           including credit & technial asistance.
Agricultural  esearch and           196?     Providing saist for research *wd extesUion srvices through
Extensicn                                    0iymical fIpata, tadunicl *sistun e  W training.
C 1740
'offee it                           16       Strngt~enig coffee reserc  ud extenion.
c 1713
................. ................................................           0.       0.......



ZAMBIA
SNAILIGODER DAIRY DEVGl0PENtf PROJtCT (CR. 1196UZA)
lable 2. Project limetable
Item                 Dte Plnn           Oate Revised       Actual Date                                    Issues Raised
- . - - . - - - - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - -- - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  -  .    .....  .........   .  ..   .--..........------------------- --.-.-.--..---..-...----.-.--.---- -----.-
Identification                         09/7J              01/79               OA/79
Preparation                            10/19                                  09160        Weak onstitutionit linkages, credit arrongements  nd milk prices.
Appraisel mission                      01/1-                                  02181        Availability of counterpart funding for recurrent costs and effectiveness of
governwnt services. Finncial viability of Dairy Board, raising of retail
price of milk, rate of technology adoption  nd raising ot retending rate of
interest.
Loan/Credit  egotiatiioe               09/81                 -                09/10        Raising of relending rate to II% pa.
Board Approval                         llJ11                 -                 12/81       Procurement procecdres.
loan/Credit Sigature                                                           3/52
Loan/Credit Effectiveness              04U/2               06/82              11/82
LoavnCredit Closing                    06/0                  -                06/81        Oisbursement was suspended with eftect from May 1987 because of the default
of the Government of Zleia on its loan repayments to IDA.
Loan/Credit Co pletion                                                                                                         na.



- 20 -
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR. 1196-ZA)
Table 3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$'000)
........................ ...............................................................   ...X... ...................... ........
Actual as    Date of Final
Year    SAR Estimate    Revised    Actual   % of Revised   Disbursement
........ ..................... ........................... ......................................................... ......... ...........
1983                             750                             750                        475                         63
1984                           1900                            1117                          668                        60
1985                           3500                            1304                          767                        59
1986                           4700                            1483                       1256                          85
1987                           6100                            1850                       1401                          76
1988                           7500                            2584                       1486                          58
1989                                                                                       1757                         68                            01/10/89
........ ..................... ................. ......................................... .......... ................... ...........



- 21 -
7ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELQPMENT PROJECT (CR. I 196 ZA)
Table 4: PRQJECT IMPLEMENTATION
KEY INDICAT-ORS
Appraisal     Redesign      Achievement      Achievement
Objective     Objective                        as % of
Year 6        Year 6          Year 6
Activity                   (No.)                        (No.)           Appraisal  Revised
PMU Formation                 1             1                1             100     100
Subsidiary loan
agreements                  3             3                3             100    100
Farmers                     1800          150               238             8      159
Annual Heifer Supply
Chisamba Ranch           550            0                 0              0      nia
Batoka Ranch             300           (not stated)      100 W           33 /  n/a
Commercial Farms           150          (not stated)
Annual feed supply            0             0              1,500 tons
Milk Collec. Centers         Z5            30               60              240    200
Milk Cooling Centers          2             3                3              150    100
Annual Incremental Production
Milk in tons             1736          (not stated)      500 tons        29    100+ b
Meat in tons             412           (not stated)      105             25    100+ bi
W In 198, Batoka ranch produced 474 in-calf beifers but delivered only 100 to the project.
t/ No specifie tw 1 e1 e stated durng project redesign ecept for the number of farmes Judged
by that, the    Unt of milk and meat produced would have been over 100% as the number of
farmers readhd wa 159%.



ZAMBIa
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPENIT PROJECT (CR. 1196-ZA)
Table 5. Project Costs
(in USS 000)
Apraisel Estiste                     Revised Estite                   Actual
foreign                          Foreign                        Foreign
Local   Exchwie                  Local   Exchange               tocal    Exchange
its              Costa     Costa      total       Costs      Costs      lotal    Coats    Costs       Total
On Fars OVtwIoprnt             S47          163      710           -           -        -      733          260      993
Anhil HusbSidry Extinsion      493          8?       580         475         125      600      136           79     215
Veterinary Services            176          69       245         200          60      260      120          83       203                    ha
Credit                        2342         622      2964         200           -      200      193          92       285
Heifer farm Oevt op nt         639         1159     1;P          350           -      350      412          33       445                    I
Milk Collection Service        533         651      1184         SOO           -      SOO      643          131      774
Project Management             604          709     1313         S45         545     1090      800           72     872
Project Preerat ion               -           -                   SO         105      155        -            -        -
Experieentation                  -                     -          90         255      345        -            -        -
Contingencies                 2149         725     2Q74          100          35      135        -            -        -
Total Project CoSt            7483        4185    11668         2510        1125     3635     3037         r50     3787
I ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -



- 23 -
SMALLNOLDL R DAItY DEYELW  PROJECT (CU. 1196-ZA)
Table 6.   PWJT  FIAIIING
(CIOOO)
Plannd                                      Final
(Loan/Credit                                  as X of
Category                             Agreemnt)          Revised       Final       Revised        Canents
IDA
Civi l Works                           1000            205         127            62
Vehicte, Equipmnt,                     690             120         241           201
Operating Costs                        590             410         454            111
Technical Assistane                   1200             910         935           103
Breeding Stock I/                      590               0           0                      Co,Ponent deleted
during redeign.
Credit to Formers  /                  2470               0           0                      Conponent deleted
during redesign.
Unallocated                            960             940           0              0
. ................ . . ... .... . ...................... .............................
Subtotal                              7500            258S        1757            68
GOVERNMElT OF ZA4SIA
CiviI Works                            458             140         244            174
Vehicies, Equipfnt                     669              30         253           843
Operating Costs                        851             556         883            159
Technical Assistace                    875               0           0             0
Breeding Stock                         412             211         445           211
Credit to Farmers                       113            113         205            181
UnatLocated                             790
SubtotaL                              4168            1050        2030           193
........................... .........................................................  .................................................
TOTAL                                     11668            3635        3787           104
Source:  IDA Disb-senant and Goverment of Zaia. SmtLhotder Oairy Devalopeimt Project records.



- 24 -
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEE            MENT EROIJE
Credit 1196-ZA
Table 7. PROJECT RESULTS
A. Di[ect Benefits and Economic Im2a
1.           The SAR indicated that the major quantifiable benefits of the would be the
incremental production of milk and beef from smallholdet farms and the supply of breeding
heifers and bulls above the immediate iieeds of the project. According to the SAR, the major
unquantifiable benefit of the project would result from its pilot role in developing a low-cost
smallholder dairy production. which could then be expanded on a national scale to increase
milk production in Zambia. An internal economic rate of return of 17% was calculated not
so much as a justification of the project as an indicator of its potential for this type of dairy
development. ln view of this and the greatly diminished benefits obtained under the reduced
project. an internal economic rate of return was not calculated. Judged from the proportion
of reduction in finance, the milk and meat production results of the redesigned project
compare satisfactorily with the SAR estimates. Despite the fact that the project was reduced,
in terms of financing, to 28% of the SAR estimates, it managed to produce nearly 30% of the
SAR's estimated annual production of milk and about 25% of that of meat (See Table 4).
The incremental production of crossbred heifers and bulls, however, was nil as the, redesigned
project scrapped the Chisamba Ranch component of the project.
B. Financial ImacUt
2.           Participating farmers obtained an incremental income of S80-S 15 per cross-
bred dairy cow p.a., depending on whether they used concentrate feed during the dry season.
The internal financial rate of return to the average participating farmer was calculated to be
31 %. The internal financial raue of retr to the projet's input supply, milk collection and
selling activities, using 1986-88 dat and excluding the cost of technical assistance, was 29%.
It dropped to 17% when this cost was included. The project was implemented at a time when
the Government of Zambia was having financial difficulties due to the sharp decline in the
price of its dominant expon. copper. As it appears that the project has not generated any
significant revenue for the Government, it can be concluded that its financial impact on the
Government was nvoe.
C. S
3.           Acording to the SAR and the redesign documents, the project was wO have
included an evaluation officer, who would have (a) studied the impact of the project on
beneficiaries, and (b) analyzed the dairy industry, including reduction, pricing, processing,
marketing and consumer demand. This did not mAterialize as an evaluation officer was never
appointed. However, the project management conducted a one-off sample survey of
participating farmers which provided good data on basic farm characteristics and costs and
returns of farm enterprises.



- 25 -
ZAHM                                                        I
SMALROLER DAMXY DEVELOPMENT PRQJECT (CREDIT 1196-ZAi
Table 8 CODPLIANCE WITH COVENANM  OF THE DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT AGRE-EN
Section                Short DescriDtion                               Com2liance
3.01 (a)               ....... carry out Part A of the Project         Parial
through PMU ....... and sball provide.
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities.
seMces and other resources required
for the purpose
3.02 (b)               cause ZADL. DPB and CFC to perform in           Partial
accordance with provisions of Project
Agreement ..... (with (and) shall take or
cause to be taicen all action including the
provision of funds. facilities. licences,
services and other resources ..- to
enable ZADL DPB and CFC to perform such
obligations and shall not taie or permit
any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance
3.03 (a), (b) & (c):   .-- enter into Subsidiary Loac Agreements:      Full
with ZADL, DPB and CFC (in tm   descnlbed
in par. (a), (b) and (c) to car out
Par C, D and B of the Projec
3.04                .  .  esablih a PMU in MAWD under terms            Full
and  nditioin aceptabis to the
Ahociani -
3.05 (i)            :  e tblhandmantaini the Bankof                    Partial
Zambia unde    n         sadsfactory to
the Auoca,a a Project Advance Account
to be rad by PMU for the purpbm of
uueua rcuet                under Part
Aof th Projec and
(3.05 (ii)          :  depwt in sucb Prje  Advance Account at          Partial
the beging of eah quae, the fbnf
required by PMU for recrret eapenitur
under fth said Part of the Projec
3.10                    - .  a      not les tha un                     Pattal
Agricltural Asisitnts and not less tC:an



- 26 -
six Vetenay Asistants to the Project
Area within a year fom the date of this
3.11                   ....... coordinate and integrate the            .  Partial
activities of the DCA and DVSTC (including
training of their staff) in the execution
of the Project
4.01 (a)                ....... maintain separate Accounts .....          Complied with
(b)                 ....... have Project Accounts, including           Complied %ith
certificates of expenditure (Section              delay
4.02), for each fiscal year audited, .
by independent auditon.
(c)                  furnish to MA ....... a certified copy of         Complied with
the report of such audit ...... . including       delay
(d)                  furnish to IDA such other information .-...:  Partial
as IDA shail from time to time request
4.02                    For withdrawals made in cerficates of              Complied with
expenditure -   sal cause PMU. ZADL,
DPB and CFC to retain - such
documentation -
4.03                     _  sba annually  view and ajust               :  Partiai
aecay, milk pnco -   and sa from
time to tms chang  views with IDA on
its milk pricin policy.



- 27 -
ZAMBIA
S4ALLHOLDEt DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR. 1196/ZA)
T1ba 10. Staff missions
..,............ ,............. ............ .........................   . . . . . .j. .. . . .. .. . .. . ..
Stage of                         Nui r of  Days in   SpecieUiztian    Perfo_rwe                 rype of
Project Cycle        Nonth/Year   Person         Fleld 1/  Reresentod 2/  Ratirg Status  Probtem  3/
...........................................................................................................
Through Appraisal           09/79           3           23            L,l                n/a
08/80           3                        L,E,F               n/a
Approisal througn           02/81           3           17           L,E,F                n/a
Board Approvel
Swpervision                 02/82           2            5            L,E                 n s.N
03/82           1            5              L                n.a              m,F
03/83           1            7              L                  2             M,F,T
11/83           3            3           L,E,F                 3               0
06/84           1            3              L                  1               N, T
03/85           2            6            L,F                  1               0
09/85           1            6              F                  2               0
06286           1            4              L                  2                F
12/86                        f             L                   1               N
05/8?           2            5            L,F                  1
11 /8           2            9            L.F                  1
1/ Per pesonl
2/ E * Ecarmist,  F * Finfacial Arulyst,   L * Livestock Spwislist
F   F ffnmwlal1   N * N     _wug tt,   T a Temicmal,  0 * iaOrganzaol
3/ n/s a not Wlicfbl*,  n.s. rot awl  ae



ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   \                              Munenga O
MILK COLLECTION ROUTES                                                                                              MZB
MAZABUKA AND MONZE DISTRICTS
Chalimbana
-  Milk collection routes                                                                  yo
Rood to be upgraded
F   Proposed milk cooling on processing center
C   Proposed milk depots
-    Paved roads
Other roads                                                 MO
Rivers
o   Agricultural camps
A   Veterinary stations                                                                   MAZABUKA
Q  Dip tanks                                                                      ziwezi
-~-.-District boundary                                                                      D  I S T  R  I C  T
KILOMETERS 0          5           10          15                                                 A
MILES 0                  5                  10\    e
/          /    ~~~~~Muniilel  ] 3
~  \  Maunga
Sianjalika
/ M    O  N  ~Z  E       D  I S T R I C  T        \\
MONZ<                                          QCMuiika                       \                  % hiwuno
S   f   1   V                 ~~~~~Kaum b\
Siakasenle                                                                  0Ch  uA
m aOkube  Ne et                                                       O Nkonkola
A , /  \.   ^,Sikabenga o-.
/          /                      ~~~~~~~~~~Chikunkao
SIWIILI  SEtTLEMENT/                                  4    /
gO               t~~~~~~hisekesi                  V    hiobola
QSiwiili C-bi   nTNAI
1  / Chikuni   Ufwenuka                                    -ZAMBIA                             TANZANIA
D.s . rct bZtda,ie R
ChisuwoO                                                                  2      ,      N_5<  ,   
\                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~ANGOLA (S<X
\xGwembe.                                                                                 S
  i         MAZAIREA,e           MOZAMBIQUE
Th,s -sap has baae" pmap sad by the Wd* . v,k, fcOi55,y X                          - co~~.
of doe tade' of t.mo . wh~hd ,saftfaohd rh.   d nd b*           MOA27    ?          -'
bo-dws      ow n   : rn map do rot A     - Mn  &the rASTTof td  WadS    e',d adrs
affihits wypdern m, tMe ll staros of Wny te,to1.y o, a,y t,rdor5ernent O,  N                     -
*ccsp,te'~  of s,eh bwnas,sd.r
ZIMBABWE           0 0'



