Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3574-ZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 24, 1981
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =       Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1.25              =       K 1.00
US$1.00              =       K 0.80
US$1,000             =       K 800
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 centimeter (cm)         =       0.39 inches
1 meter (m)               =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer               =       0.62 miles
1 square meter (m2)       =       10.76 sq. ft.
1 hectare (ha)            =       10,000 m2 = 2.47
acres
1 kilogram (kg)           =       2.204 pounds lb
1 metric ton (ton)        =       1,000 kg =  2,204 lb
I liter (1)               =       0.26 US gallon = 2.1
pints
GLOSSARY O:F ABBREVIATIONS
AFC          -    Agricultural Finance Company
CFC          -    Cattle Finance Company
DOA         -    Department of Agriculture
DPB         -    Dairy Produce Board
DVTCS       -    Department of Vleterinary and Tsetse Control Services
EPADP       -    Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project
FTC         -    Farmer Training Center
FAO/CP      -    FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
GRZ         -    Government of the Republic of Zambia
MAWD        -    Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
NAMB        -    National Agricultural Marketing Board
NBS         -    National Beef Scheme
PMU         -    Project Management Unit
RDC         -    Rural Development Corporation
RMPS        -    Rural Milk Production Scheme
SPADP       -    Southern Province Agricultural Development Project
ZADL        -    Zambia Agricultural Development Limited
ZADB        -    Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND
A.  The Project        .......................................,         1
B.  Economic Setting ................... . . .. . ...................   1
C.  Agricultural Performance ..... .....................                2
D.  Livestock/Dairy Development Objectives and Strategy                 4
E.  Livestock/Dairy Services ..........................                 4
F.  Milk Marketing and Pricing Policy .            ................     7
G.  Previous Bank Group Assistance ....................                 9
II. EXECUTING AGENCIES
A.  Dairy Produce Board                      ......                     10
B.  Cattle Finance Company ......         ......................        10
C.  Zambia Agricultural Development Limited  ...........                11
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A.  Physical Description ...          ......................            11
B.  Socio-Econosic Characteristics              ..................      13
C.  Livestock/Crop Production Systems ...............        ..         14
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  General Description .........................                       15
B.  Detailed Features ....... . .  .................  .. . * ............  17
C.  Project Costs ......*..............*. .............                 24
D.  Financing .................................. ...............        26
E.  Procurement ........................... ...............             27
F. Disbursements ......... ......                            .28
G. Accounts and Audit                       .....                       29
H.  Environmental Impact .............. ........29
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                                              29
VI. PRODUCTION                                                              31
A.  Smallholder Producers .............       . . ............          31
B.  Production Increases ....... ........................               33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Zambia in February 1981, consisting of J. Frankel, A. Klempin (IDA), and
S. Gordin (Consultant).
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
VII.   MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Milk ................................................     35
B. Beef       .......................................        36
VIII.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Beneficiaries   ...........  . ..  . . ..    .............  ...  .  37
B.  DPB's Processing Opera,tions .... ................       38
C.  Government Cash Flow and Cost Recovery ........          40
IX.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  . .................... .   ......... .     41
X.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ............           42
SUPPORTING CHARTS AND TABLES:
Chart C-1, Implementation Schedule
Chart C-2, Organizational Chart
Table T-1, Estimated Schedlule of Disbursements
Table T-2, Phasing of Project Costs
Table T-2a, Livestock Extension Service Costs
Table T-2b, Veterinary Service Costs
Table T-2c, Group A & B FaLrmer Credit Requirements
Table T-2d, Credit Service Costs
Table T-2e, Chisamba Heifer Farm Costs
Table T-2f, Milk Collection Service - Investment Costs
Table T-2g, Milk Collection Service - Operating Costs
Table T-2h, Project Management Unit Costs
Table T-3a, On-Farm Investment (Type A)
Table T-3b, Operating Costs (Type A)
Table.T-3c, Cash Flow Projjection (Type A)
Table T-3d, On-Farm Investment (Type B)
Table T-3e, Operating Costs (Type B)
Table T-3f, Value of Incremental Production (Type B)
Table T-3g, Summary of Projected Production-All Proposed Milk Routes
Table T-3h, Summary of Incremental Meat Production
Table T-3i, Chisamba Heifer Breeding Farm Herd Projections
Table T-3j, Total Value of Incremental Milk Production
Table T-4, CFC:  Project-Related Cash Flow
Table T-5, ZADL:  Cash Flow of Chisamba Farm
Table T-6, DPB:  Project-Related Cash Flow
Table T-7, Government Cash Flow of the Project
Table T-8, Calculation of Import Parity Prices of
Milk and Beef
Table T-9, Economic Costs and Benefits



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Project Manager .......................................... 73
Financial Controller .................... ........... .  ...... 74
Chisamba  Ranch  Manager  ...................... ................. 76
Transport Manager ........... .............................. 77
MAPS:
Map - IBRD 15775 - Milk Collection Routes - Kabwe District
Map - IBRD 15776 - Milk Collection Routes - Mazabuka and
Monze Districts
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Project Preparation Report






ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Project
1.01       In October 1978, a project identification mission from the World
Bank visited Zambia to assess the state of Zambian agriculture and to identify
projects suitable for World Bank financing. Dairy development proposals from
the Third National Development Plan (1979-83) were presented by Government for
consideration by that mission. It was subsequently agreed that smallholder
dairy development could be a suitable activity for World Bank assistance. It
was proposed that this development should be aimed at satisfying demand for
fresh milk in Lusaka and metropolitan areas of Central and Southern Province.
The World Bank, in a letter to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Development (MAWD), dated November 2, 1978, outlined the
data required to permit full Project Identification. On completion of field
surveys to prepare these data and following requests from the World Bank and
Government, the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) sent a mission to
Zambia from September 5-28, 1979, to assist Government in completing
identification of the Project. Following a detailed review of the Project
Identification Report, both in the Bank and by the interested parties in
Zambia, a further mission from FAO/CP visited Zambia from September 1-12,
1980, to assist in finalizing the Project concept, scope and components and in
completing the Project Preparation Report (PR). The PR was completed in 1980
and the Project was appraised in February 1981.
B. Economic Setting
1.02       Zambia is a land-locked country of some 750,000 square km and a
population of 5.8 million people (1979). The predominance of copper mining
and the relative unimportance of agriculture have made Zambia one of the most
urbanized countries in Africa, with 40% of its population residing in either
towns or cities. Population growth has increased from an average of 2.5% a
year between 1963 and 1965 to over 3% since 1970. In urban areas and in the
more developed Central and Copperbelt Provinces, population growth at 7% and
5% respectively per year since 1970 has been especially rapid. In contrast,
other Provinces of Zambia have grown at only 1% per year because of
substantial out-migration.
1.03       The agricultural sector's share of the gross national product (GNP)
which was K361 (US$446) per capita in 1978, has grown by 3%, increasing its
share from 11.5% to 16.5% of the total GNP. This increase is more a reflec-
tion of the declining activity in the mining sector than of the strength of
agriculture. During the period since independence, the mining sector has
contributed on average 34% of GNP, 45% of Government revenue and 95% of export
earnings, but by 1978, its share of GNP had fallen to 12%; Government revenues
and export earnings had fallen accordingly with deficits registered since



- 2 -
1975. Major factors behind the deteriorating trade balance have been the
declining earnings from copper and a 40% fall in terms of trade since 1965.
Agricultural imports during this period have shown a steady increase, reaching
a total of over K46.0 million in 1979. The value of dairy imports in 1977 was
about K5.0 million, slightly higher than imports in 1970, but less than half
those of 1974 when imports reached their highest level. The imports
of meat products have also declined sharply in recent years. In 1977, imports
were only K650,000, well down from the K9.5 million attained in 1972.
C. Agricultural Performance
General
1.04       The agricultural sector in Zambia is markedly dualistic.  On the
one hand, there is a relatively small modern sector of about 800
heavily-capitalized farmers (mainly of European origin) and a small number of
state farms and ranches, all of which farm State Land on a leasehold basis
along the line-of-rail. On the other hand, there are about 600,000 farm
families on land held under traditional tenure, the majority of whom cultivate
less than 2 ha using hand- or ox-cultivation and are oriented towards
subsistence production. This extreme dualism has been modified in recent
years by two developments. Firstly, a number of medium-scale Zambian farmers
("emergent farmers'),l/ also along the line-of-rail, have developed
mechanized farms geared to the commercial market. Secondly, an increasing
number of small farmers, particularly in the Southern, Central and Eastern
Provinces, have begun to produce marketable crop surpluses.
The Dairy Sub-Sector
1.05       Nowhere is the duality more evident than in the dairy sub-sector,
where fewer than 40 commercial dairy farmers produce over 60% of the country's
marketed fresh milk while a large number (100,000) of traditional cattle
owners produce milk solely for domestic or village level consumption. Because
of the numerous and scattered units comprising the traditional sector,
accurate data on milk production are only available for marketed production
from the commercial and State sectors and emergent farmers; output from the
traditional sector can be only roughly estimated at between 25 and 30 million
liters per annum.
1.06       The production of marketed milk in Zambia has been in continuous
decline over the last 15 years and since 1974 this decline has been
accelerating. Since 1964, the overall decline has been about 35%, with
production falling from 15.0 mil:Lion liters to 10.4 million liters per year.
During the first 10 years following Independence, output fell only about 8%
but in the last five years, product:Lon has decreased by over 25%. Main
reasons for this decline have been the steady reduction until recently in the
number of cattle in commercial dairy herds as a result of inadequate producer
prices as well as uncertainties over land tenure and the future of large-scale
commercial farming.
1.07       Production of milk comes from four distinctive farm groups:
Commercial, Emergent, Traditional, and (in relatively limited quantities)
1/   Farmers making the transition to commercial agriculture.



-3-
State Farms. In 1964, there were about 120 commercial dairy farms located on
State land along the line-of-rail. These farms produced all of the 15.0
million liters of marketed milk. By 1974, these numbers had been reduced to
40 and their milk production to 10.5 million liters; this has since declined
to 5.5 million liters. The cattle on commercial dairy farms are of exotic
European breeds, mostly Friesian. Productivity is high with annual yields
ranging from 2,500 to 4,000 liters per animal and averaging about 3,000.
However, there is considerable potential for increasing production both
through increasing yield per cow and by increasing cattle numbers. Only a
small area of the land available on these large-scale dairy units has been
planted to improved pasture so that even within the same units there is a
large potential for increasing carrying capacity.2/
1.08        Emergent dairy farmers in Zambia are small in number and their
milk production is only a very small proportion of the country's total
output. Their creation was directly linked to two Government programs set up
10 years ago to increase milk production among traditional farmers; the Dairy
Tenant Scheme and the Rural Milk Production Scheme (RMPS). The Dairy Tenant
Schemes were set up with the intention of introducing sophisticated dairy
technology to a group of specially trained farmers and the RMPS to traditional
farmers. Since 1969, about 140 farmers on reserve and trust land have
developed small-scale crossbred dairy units through participation in the
RMPS. Participation in the RMPS has been restricted by a shortage of suitable
cattle while budgetary constraints have prevented the few participants from
receiving the services of a dependable milk collection system. Average milk
yields remain low at about 730 liters per lactation.
1.09       It is difficult to obtain precise estimates of milk production in
the traditional sector. It is estimated, however, that only about 50% of the
cows that calve in the traditional herds are actually milked with the calves
running freely with the herds and taking other available milk. With an
assumed traditional herd size of 1.8 million head, of which 15-20% are cows
with calves, the total milk production would be between 25-30 million
liters. Milk yields of traditional cows are low, averaging no more than 2
liters per day at the peak of lactation, the duration of which is only four
months (i.e., about 200 liters per lactation). The traditional sector thus
produces the majority of the domestic milk supply, but this production derives
from indigenous cattle herds and is highly seasonal. There are possibilities
for increasing this production through improved animal health and simple
management changes to improve nutrition. The low genetic capability of
traditional cattle would nevertheless limit potential production to about 300
liters per lactation. This sector has extensive grazing areas and large crop
residue feed resources which could be utilized much more effectively.
However, in the absence of milk collection services, increased seasonal
production would quickly exceed local requirements.
1.10         There are ten State dairy farms run by Zambia Agricultural
Development Limited (ZADL). They form part of a milk production program which
was initiated in 1968 and later assisted with finance from the World Bank
(Loan 627-ZA). The farms presently have a herd size of 5,400 of which 1,660
are cows producing 4 million liters of milk a year. Farm results have been
2/   Land required to carry one Livestock Unit (LU), the equivalent of a
mature cow.



- 4 -
variable with some farms operating profitably while others are showing only
marginal returns. The generally poor performance stems from a failure to
develop the level of operational and managerial expertise required of a modern
dairy farm stocked with European breedls. Steps are now being taken for the
training of dairy farm managers at Palabana (para. 1.15) and additional
management assistance is being provided to ZADL from bilateral sources.
D. Livestock/Dairy Development Objectives and Strategy
1.11       Government policy towards livestock development in general and
dairy development in particular has remained largely unchanged in recent
years. Policy objectives since the laLte 1960's and early 1970's have been
geared to production increases in the large-scale commercial and State farms,
and the traditional/emergent groups. In terms of emphasis, it has been the
State and traditional sectors which halve received greatest priority. The
objectives outlined in the Third National Development Plan (TNDP) adhere
fundamentally to past goals. The only noteworthy alterations are a slight
de-emphasis on the State sector, a renewed interest in the potential of
private commercial farms and an ever increasing priority for the traditional
sector. Specifically, the TNDP aims alt establishing a sound foundation for
the development of the dairy industry with increases in milk production of 40%
by 1983. Attention will be directed towards increasing the number of market
oriented emergent farmers in the traditional sector. Commercial farmers will
be encouraged to increase production by regular producer price reviews. In
the State sector, efforts will be aimed primarily at consolidation and
improved efficiency; further expansion will be confined .to those areas where
private initiative has not succeeded.
E. Livestock/Dairy Services
Extension Services
1.12       The responsibility for dairy development lies with MAWD.  The
Planning Unit (PU) of MAWD, Lusaka, is responsible for planning and advising
on policy questions, the Department of Agriculture (DOA) within MAWD is
responsible for implementation. Responsibility for extension services and
central coordination lies with the DOA, in Lusaka. At the Provincial level,
extension services are provided by the staff of the Provincial Office of the
DOA who work with the district livestock officers and through the network of
agricultural camps and stations to reach the farmers. Within the DOA, the
dairy development unit is part of the Animal Husbandry Division, one of eight
in the department. The unit is headed in Lusaka by a Senior Dairy Officer and
at the Provincial level by a ProvinciaLl Dairy Officer. The existence of
trained dairy officers at the district level depends on the area's
requirements and the availability of budgetary allocations.
Research
1.13       The Animal Husbandry Research Center at Mazabuka served as the
center of livestock research for many years. Unfortunately for the industry,
the station was closed down and its land diverted to sugar production several
years ago. A satisfactory station for livestock research has not been
established although there are plans to develop the station at Mochipapa near
Choma.  Nevertheless some excellent work was done at Mazabuka which can still



- 5 -
effectively serve present requirements. It includes extensive research on the
milk production potential of Friesian/indigenous crossbreeds; pasture
improvement with the use of star grass in particular; performance tests with
young bulls kept under extensive grazing conditions; and introductory work in
the development of an A.I.3/ system mainly for commercial farmers. Prelimi-
nary work on pasture improvement and fodder production has been started at
Mochipapa and some work is also in progress at Mount Makulu Central Research
Station.
Credit Services
1.14       Institutional credit is available to commercial farmers for dairy
development from the commercial banks. For emergent dairy farmers, the only
institutional credit provided to date has been a small number of loans from
the Agricultural Finance Company (AFC), a subsidiary of the Rural Development-
Corporation (RDC). The AFC is mainly concerned with seasonal finance for crop
production. The Cattle Finance Company (CFC), another subsidiary of the RDC,
operates on a small scale providing loans for beef cattle production. Its
operations have been generally well managed and loan recovery has been
satisfactory to date. However, CFC's future is uncertain since GRZ plans to
establish the Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB) in order to replace
CFC and AFC, the two existing agricultural credit agencies. Legislation for
the establishment of ZADB was passed in March 1979, but various preparatory
activities need to be carried out before ZADB can become operational. The
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project provides funds for a
comprehensive program of technical assistance to ZADB, with particular empha-
sis on lending operations and procedures, program development, staff training,
and organization and administration.
Staff Training
1.15       The shortage of trained manpower has been one of the main cons-
traints limiting agricultural development in Zambia. This problem is slowly
being reduced but the relatively short period since Independence during which
most of Zambia's educational institutions have been operating means that this
constraint will continue for some time. Degree level courses in animal hus-
bandry are given by the school of agricultural services of the University of
Zambia, established in 1968. Annual intake is low and salaries offered by
MAWD are not competitive with those offered by the parastatals and the private
sector, two factors which strictly limit the availability of graduates for
development work. At the Natural Resources Development College (NRDC), three-
year diploma level courses are offered in animal husbandry for secondary
school graduates and agricultural assistants who have shown outstanding ser-
vice. Two-year certificate courses in general agriculture, including animal
husbandry, are provided by the Zambia College of Agriculture at Monze in
Southern Province and Mpika in Central Province. The DOA has Provincial farm
training institutes at Kanchomba in Southern Province and at Palabana and
Kembe in Central Province; the Palabana Institute is being converted into the
Palabana Institute of Dairy Training with bilateral assistance and will serve
as a national center for dairy training.
3/   Artificial insemination.



-6-
Farmer Training Centers
1.16       The primary base of the DOA institutional training is the Farmer
Training Center (FTC), located at the district level. There are three FTCs in
the proposed Project area, one in each of the districts concerned: Monze,
Mazabuka (being established) in Southern Province, and in Central Province at
Kembe in Kabwe district. Each FTC is headed by an officer-in-charge, either
an agricultural supervisor or a Senior Agricultural Assistant (SAA) who is
assisted by one or more teachers. Courses are drawn up in consultation with
farmers and comprise a wide variety of topics including animal husbandry.
Animal Health Services
1.17       The Department of Veterinary and Tsetse Control Services (DVTCS) is
responsible for all aspects of animal health and tsetse control throughout the
country. The two branches are each headed by a Provincial officer responsible
through the Provincial administration to the Director of DVTCS in Lusaka. The
veterinary branch conducts routine disease control campaigns aimed at
prevention of outbreaks of the major diseases. Tick-borne diseases are the
most common in the area and pose a permanent threat to the introduction of
exotic or crossbred stock. Trypanosomiasis and foot-and-mouth disease do not
occur in the proposed area but there have been sporadic outbreaks of
haemorrhagic septicaemia and regular vaccination is necessary in some areas.
Liver fluke is a problem on the verges of flooded areas and brucellosis is
thought to be a major contributor to the low reproduction rates. Internal
parasites in young stock result in debility and vulnerability to other
diseases.
Input Supply
1.18       Input supply depots are well distributed within the Project areas.
In Central Province, responsibility for the supply of general agricultural
inputs lies with the National Agricultural Marketing Board (NAMB)4/.   Its
input supply network, which includes about 15 depots in the Project area, is
not.presently handling the requisite inputs for improved dairy management,
except for barbed wire. These items are purchaseable, however, from
Government stores or private traders and are easily transported and stored.
In Southern Province the Cooperative Marketing Union (SPCMU) has an adequate
coverage of input supply depots in the two Districts which make up the Project
area. The SPCMU tends to have a more developed input supply network than
NAMB and a greater number of depots selling a wider range of inputs. The
limited supply of crossbred heifers could be a serious constraint to dairy
farm development since there are at present only two possible local sources
for crossbred cattle. The first is Batoka Ranch, a heifer breeding farm
managed by the Department of Agriculture and supported by the European
Development Fund (EDF) which will produce its first crossbred cattle during
1981. The second is the Commercial Dairy Farmers, with whom an agreement
could be reached to cross some of their older cows and heifers with suitable
bulls to provide the Project with heifers. However, these two sources would
not be sufficient to supply the needs of the Project. Therefore a third
4/   Most of NAMB's marketing responsibilities have been assigned to the
Cooperative Unions, but its responsibility for the importation of
supplies and fertilizer is continuing.



- 7 -
source, the Chisamba farm now operated by ZADL for beef production, would be
converted to a heifer breeding farm under the Project to provide an additional
source to meet the required numbers.
F. Milk Marketing and Pricing Policy
1.19       Almost all the marketed milk in Zambia is channelled through the
Dairy Produce Board (DPB), a parastatal monopoly controlling the purchasing,
processing and marketing of dairy products. The only marketing activities
outside DPB's operations are small, though increasing, direct milk sales from
commercial farms (para. 1.06), local sales from traditional herds, and the
operation of the Zambezi Cooperative Dairy in Livingstone which is supplied
and controlled by a small group of commercial farmers who cater for the milk
demand of local tourist hotels, and Livingstone's urban population.
1.20       Of DPB's total milk sales, reconstituted milk has always accounted
for the largest share since it was first produced by DPB in 1966. Sales of
reconstituted milk reached a peak of almost 34.0 million liters in 1976,
giving reconstituted milk a 76% share of DPB's total milk sales. Since then,
there has been a sharp decline in production of reconstituted milk due to
reduced imports and foreign exchange restrictions; these result from
Government austerity measures rather than any conscious policy towards milk
production.
DPB's Sales of Milk ('000 liter)
Milk       68/69   69/70   70   71   72         73    74    75    76
Fresh     10,000   10,438 11,070 13,079 12,902 13,707 12,043 11,342 11,100
Reconst.   13,638   18,441 18,661 21,288 22,297 21,731 25,056 31,304 32,400
Total     23,638  28,849 29,731 34,367 35,199 34,438 37,099 42,646 43,500
Milk                   1977       1978       1979      1980
Fresh    -            10,800    10,200      9,800     10,700
Reconst.              26,100     15,690    14,830     11,300
Total                 36,900    25,890    24,630    22,000
1.21       The demand for milk increased sharply in 1966 following introduc-
tion of the cheap milk policy.  In an effort to increase the nutritional con-
tent of the Zambian diet, the Government stimulated demand for milk by the
provision of reconstituted milk, which was not only subsidized but was priced
on the basis of low cost concessionally supplied ingredients from European
Common Market countries. But even after the direct consumer subsidy was with-
drawn in 1971, demand for milk has remained well ahead of supply; the steady
migration from rural to urban areas, rising urban incomes, increasing use of
breakfast food and availability of long-life milk in rural areas have all been
contributing factors. With the decline in production of both fresh and recon-



- 8 -
stituted milk since 1976, long waiting lines and widespread unavailability of
milk at the retail level are clear indications of the unsatisfied demand.
Most Zambian consumers, in traditional rural milk producing areas, sour their
milk before consuming it, since reconstituted milk cannot always be
satisfactorily soured, their preference is for fresh milk. Expatriates and
the higher-income urban groups appear to be very willing to pay a premium for
fresh milk because of taste preference. The urban middle- and lower-income
groups are major consumers of reconstituted milk because of its lower price.
1.22       Retail milk price policy in Zambia has gone through three stages.
The first period was up until 1965 when the price of fresh milk limited con-
sumption to the high income groups. The second period began in 1965 with the
introduction of a cheap milk policy for urban dwellers and ran until 1970.
The lowering of the price of fresh milk at this time had an enormous effect on
demand and led to the production of reconstituted milk to meet the demand.
Throughout this period fresh and reconstituted milk sold for the same price.
In 1970, differential pricing was introduced. Since then, fresh milk was sold
at a premium ranging from 20% to 45% over the price of reconstituted milk.
Retail Prices of Fresh and Reconstituted Milk (ngwee/liter)
Milk        1971 72   73  74 7576 777879808181  1/
Fresh        14 17.50 17.50 22  :22  26  32  32  36  36  40  50
Reconst.   10.5 12.30 12.30 14  14  18  22  22 30  30  32  44
Note: Ngwee 100 = K 1.00
1/ A second increase in the retail price was approved July 13,
1981 to compensate for the July 1, 1981 increase in the farmgate
price.
1.23       Retail prices as well as producer prices for fresh milk are
controlled by Government. Responsibility for formulating pricing
recommendations rests with MAWD, whose Planning Unit in collaboration with
DOA, DPB and the Price Control Office carries out periodic reviews of the
producer price, taking into account commercial farmers' production costs, and
their needs for a fair return on investment, and financial implications for
DPB. The producer price trend has gone through two stages since 1964. Until
1975, it increased a total of 52%, keeping pace with the wholesale price
index; between 1975 and the present, it increased by 262%, and largely
surpassed increases in the general price level as well as those on other major
agricultural products. In the informal village market, prices for raw milk
have been 20-40% higher than official producer prices.
Fresh Milk Producer Price (ngwee/liter)
1981   1981
1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979 1980  (Feb)  (Jul)  1982 2/
8.65  9.92  10.57 10.88 10.50  15    21    21    25   25           32      38    43
2/ Announced to take effect January 1982.



- 9 -
G. Previous Bank Group Assistance
1.24        The Bank Group has made six loans (two for industrial forestry, one
for livestock development and two for tobacco production and one for
provincial agricultural development) and one credit (for coffee production).
The livestock loan was cancelled in 1973 at GRZ request following extended
delays in disbursements caused by pricing problems and poor management. The
first forestry project was well executed, and completed a year ahead of
schedule. The second industrial forestry project is proceeding at a
satisfactory rate. The commercial tobacco farming project was completed, but
did not meet its goal of successfully training and establishing Zambian
commercial tobacco farmers and hence raising tobacco production. The family
farming tobacco project has recently been completed, but has had only limited
success because of major managerial problems and difficulties stemming from
tobacco prices that were unattractive in relation to the price of other crops,
particularly maize. The Coffee Project has started satisfactorily , although
constrained by shortages of foreign exchange and GRZ funds. A second
Livestock Project was prepared for Bank assistance in 1970, but was found
unsuitable for Bank financing by the appraisal team because of technical and
structural weaknesses in the Project design. The mixed farming development
project was then prepared together with the Intensive Development Zone
project, but both were withdrawn in 1975 by the Government largely because GRZ
was reluctant to use Bank funds for these projects and there were doubts as to
the ability of the executing agencies to implement them. Assistance to
agriculture has also been provided through projects in other sectors. The
Fourth Education Project, for example, has a major component to strengthen the
training of extension staff and farmers, and a line of credit to the
Development Bank of Zambia has financed the provision of medium and long-term
financing to commercial farmers and to a firm of agricultural machinery
manufacturers.
1.25        The Bank has also assisted GRZ in analyzing the problems of the
rural and agricultural sector, through a sector survey in 1975, a review of
agricultural pricing and marketing policy in 1978 and of agricultural credit
in 1979. More recently, the Bank Staff carried out an Agricultural Recurrent
Budgetary Study completed in September 1980. Provincial Agricultural
Development Projects for Eastern (EPADP) and Southern Provinces have been
appraised and the Eastern Province Project was approved by the Bank's Board in
May 1981. The Southern Province Project was negotiated in September 1981.
The latter Project includes complete upgrading of the Southern Province
Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Services. This would provide direct support
to the Monze and Mazabuka District livestock units involved in the Dairy
Development Project.
1.26        Lessons learned from problems faced by other similar projects have
guided the development of the structure of the Dairy Development project.
Previous smallholder dairy schemes had failed largely because of the broad
dispersal of the targetted producer groups and because of less than dependable
milk pickup services. The project's pilot classification stems from concern
over the number of farmers and the speed of interest developing in commercial
dairying. To meet this concern the project area was concentrated within two
adjoining Districts, both with a tradition of livestock ownership. Any future
expansion of the producing area would be contingent upon the performance in



10 -
the introductory region. By concentrating in a relatively small geographic
area,it is expected that techncal support, credit and livestock health
services, and a dependable milk pickup system could be efficiently and
economically maintained.
II. EXECUTING AGENCIES
A. Dairy Produce Board
2.01        The Dairy Produce Board (DPB) is a parastatal monopoly controlling
the buying, manufacture, preparation and marketing of dairy products in
Zambia.  It was established in 1964 as a replacement of the Federal Dairy
Marketing Board.  DPB operates two major milk processing plants:  the Midlands
factory in Lusaka and the Kitwe plant in the Copperbelt.  The Midlands factory
has a capacity of 12,000 liters per hour (l/hr) of which only a third was
utilized during the last three years. The capacity of the Kitwe plant is
8,000 l/hr, and its utilization was about 60%. Both plants were established
in the early seventies, at a time when DPB's milk output showed a steady
increase due to increasing imports of ingredients for reconstituting milk
(para. 1.20). Once foreign exchange restrictions reduced imports, DPB's total
milk output started to decline rapidly, leading to substantial underutiliza-
tion of procesing capacity, poorer sales performance, increase in unit costs,
and reversal of DPB from a profit making firm in 1977 (K 265,000 after depre-
ciation) to a loss-maker ever since (K 6i99,000 in 1978, K 903,000 in 1979,
and, interim, K755,000 in 1980).  Recent changes in GRZ policy towards
parastatals and commodity pricing, along with DPB's plans for plant
rehabilitation and cost control (Para 8.05), should reverse loss-making trend.
2.02        Despite cost increases, DPB's margin between producer price and
wholesale price of fresh milk - the sum which must cover all collection, pro-
cessing, and marketing costs - was kept  constant at KO.09/1 from 1977-1980,
and has been reduced to KO.06/1 in the 1981-price gazette5/. At 1979/1980
prices, DPB incurred a loss of approximately KO.10/1 as the differential
between ex-plant cost and wholesale price.  While in former years DPB was able
to off-set losses in fresh milk sales by profits in reconstituted milk sales,
its 1980 accounts show that the reconstitution line operates at about the
break-even-point. Due to the shortage of packaging materials, lack of import-
ed ingredients, and reductions in the imnportation of milk by-products, DPB's
sales of other products (ice cream, lacto, milk biscuits, and various groce-
ries) have also declined. These products used to provide DPB with a high pro-
fit margin which could be used to subsidize losses in the milk processing
sector.
B. Cattle Finance Company
2.03        The Cattle Finance Company (CFC) is one of eleven subsidiaries
under the Rural Development Company (RDC) which, in turn, falls under a larger
holding company, the Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIMCO). The
General Manager of CFC is appointed by the Board of RDC. CFC pays RDC a
management fee which is based on a variable assessment by RDC, and is used
substantially as a device for redistributing income among RDC's subsidiaries
5/   Following the July 1, 1981 producer price increase, the retail price was
advanced to K 0.50 increasing DPB's margin to K 0.12 liter.



11 -
rather than as a charge for specific services rendered. While from 1974-1976
the fee was CFC's largest single expense item, ranging from K85,000 to
K157,000, it declined from K50,000 in 1977 to K15,000 during the past three
years. CFC's authorized capital is K3.0 million.
2.04       CFC provides credit to farmers for the breeding and fattening of
beef cattle. Basic facilities are required as a condition for accepting
applications. These include suitable paddocks, assured water supply, availa-
ble year round grazing, and a dip tank or spray-race. CFC has been operating
two livestock finance programs; one for members of the National Beef Scheme
(NBS) and the other for commercial farmers. Loan amounts have a ceiling of
K10,000 for NBS members and K20,000 for commercial farmers. Cattle are consi-
dered the property of CFC until loans are repaid. Repayment periods of up to
five years are given on bulls, cows or heifers and three years on steers.
Loan recovery has been 75-85%. Operations are carried out through a main
office in Lusaka and 10 widely scattered branches. A General Manager is based
at the main office and supported by a controller and credit specialist. Each
branch is headed by a field inspector with training in livestock management
and is supported by some clerical staff. Staffing is minimal at all loca-
tions. Typical branch staff numbers about four. To date CFC has made a total
of only 455 loans for the purchase of 79,920 cattle. In 1979, CFC made a
small profit of K14,648, for the first time since 1974. In former years, the
high management fees assesed by the RDC holding company (para. 2.03) was a
major cause for CFC's losses. Once the newly established Zambia Agricultural
Development Bank (ZADB) becomes operational, it is expected that CFC will be
absorbed by ZADB (para. 1.14).
C. Zambia Agricultural Development Limited
2.05       The Zambia Cattle Development Limited (ZCDL) a subsidiary of RDC
was set up in 1968 with financial assistance of the World Bank, however, ZCDL
came under the umbrella of ZIMCO in January 1979, and ZCDL was changed to
Zambia Agricultural Development Limited (ZADL) incorporating the former Zambia
Farm Development Limited (ZFDL) and its remaining farms. At the time,
development of seven ranches was being implemented with World Bank loans and
six with Government resources. The dairy side of ZADL's activities was
established with the intention of reducing the effect of Zambia's declining
commercial dairy herd (para 1.05). ZADL is presently managing 14 beef ranches
and 10 dairy farms; four of the beef ranches and six of the dairy farms have
recently been acquired from Projects Division of MAWD. Central management of
ZADL is located in Lusaka. Staff of both headquarters and farm level have
been largely Zambian, but ZADL has experienced difficulty retaining qualified
staff because of the more competitive salaries available from the private
sector. This drain of qualified managerial personnel has had a serious
negative effect on ranch management. ZADL's operation of the Chisamba beef
ranch has been more successful than most other beef or dairy units. The ranch
has produced a modest profit now for several years although the physical
infrastructure of the ranch has run down since little if any of the ranch
income has been used for building and fencing maintenance or for improved
pasture development. ZADL has agreed to turn the operation of Chisamba over
to the Project for a heifer breeding unit although it will retain ownership of
the ranch (Para 4.14).



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Description
3.01       The areas identified for the Project were considered the natural
milkshed for Lusaka and nearby urban districts. They lie in two Provinces,
Southern and Central, and three Districts, Mazabuka, Monze (Map IBRD 15776)
and Kabwe (Map IBRD 15775). Areas selected in both Provinces are part of the
Southern and Central Plateau lying at aLltitudes ranging between 1,000 and
1,450 m. The contour is generally flat, becoming more undulating in Chivuma
with proximity to the escarpment. In Kabwe district, the areas are inter-
spersed with a large number of dambos, low-lying meadows which are often
flooded in the rainy season; these occur occur less frequently in Mazabuka and
Monze, although villages in the Chalimbana and Kunenga areas are within reach
of the Kafue flats. Soils on the Plateau in Kabwe district are predominantly
sandveldt soils, light yellowish sands or loamy sands over permeable sub-
soils. The upper valley soils of Mazabuka and Monze are heavier and range
from sandy to heavy loams. Both soils are relatively easy to cultivate and
with good management including application of fertilizer, good yields are
possible for maize, sunflower, soyabean, groundnuts and cotton as well as
excellent stands of improved pasture grasses. The dambo areas and the Kafue
flats are of heavier soils, some of which are suitable for rice cultivation,
but most are retained in native grasses for dry season grazing.
Climate and Water Resources
3.02       The climate is generally favorable for annual crop production and
perennial grasses with rainfall averaging 900 to 1,100 mm p.a. However, the
seasonality of this rainfall with 80% of the total in the months of November,
December and January limits the length of the cultivation season and
consequently impose limits on the area that can be cultivated. Most families
depend on oxen for cultivation and are able to crop about half of their
designated crop area each season. Most: farmers in the selected areas depend
on dug wells of up to 20 m depth for drinking water supplies. In general,
groundwater in Kabwe district is available at a depth of less than 10 m, in
sufficient quantities for stock watering. On the Plateau in Mazabuka and
Monze, water is somewhat deeper but in all areas near to dambos and the Kafue
flats the water level is close to the surface. The Project is traversed by
several perennial streams.
Land Use
3.03       Of the 200,000 ha falling within areas served by the Project, it is
estimated that:
(a) 80,000 ha are cropland, i.e, land which has
been cleared and cultivated for crop produc-
tion at some time withiin the last twenty years;
(b) 75,000 ha are grazing ]Land, with native grasses
and savanna and up to 30% tree cover, including
about 10,000 ha of low land with the balance in
forests, waste areas etc. None of the area is
under threat from tsetse fly.



- 13 -
Annual food crop production is the main agricultural activity and maize is the
predominant crop, occupying roughly 70% of the cropped area. Other crops
grown and the percentage share of the total area are: groundnuts 15%, sunflo-
wer and soyabean 5%; cotton 5% and others, including vegetables, tobacco, sor-
ghum and beans, 5%. Many farmers on reserve and trust land use fertilizer and
for maize and most cash crops except groundnuts, the use of improved seeds is
widespread.
Infrastructure
3.04       All parts of the three Project areas are within 30 km of the main
paved road which links Kabwe, Mazabuka and Monze with Lusaka (see maps No.
15775-6).  In Kabwe district the proposed milk collection routes on the roads
to Chivuna and Munega are considered to be all weather. In Monze, the
collection route through Siakasenke, Siwiili, Chisekesi, Chikuni, Chiyobola
and Namakube and back to Monze is all-weather. The road connecting Monze to
Njola is also all-weather. The access road to the Chisamba ranch is in poor
condition and would require improvement (gravel) to several sections
totalling about 4 or 5 km to make the ranch accessible through the wet
season.
B. Socio-Economic Characteristics
Land Tenure and Population
3.05       The entire Project area falls within reserve and trust lands, which
are lands under customary use. Legal title on this land is vested statutorily
in the President, who can in theory grant leases or occupancy rights. In
fact, this power is qualified by the customary rights of various communities
who use these lands. Arable land (designated crop land) is operated on an
individual basis. The grazing of stock on the other hand is usually a
communal operation; grazing rights, which apply not only to vacant land but
also to fallow land held by individuals, are usually held in common by all
members of a community.-
3.06       The Project area contains about 400 villages or concentrations of
population having a total of 45,000 inhabitants in 7,500 families. Annual
growth is less than 2% and the average family size ranges between 5.6 in Monze
to 6.5 in Mazabuka. Women represent 54% of the total population and 57% of
those are in the 20 to 40 age group. The average family of six members
includes three adults and three children or youths, who together are able to
contribute 3.5 adult units representing 85 work days per month. The
population in Mazabuka and Monze districts is predominantly of the Tonga tribe
who have a long tradition of cattle raising and are noted for their hard work
and readiness to adopt improved practice. In Kabwe district several tribes
are represented but also include many Tonga who have moved north to Kabwe
district.
Grazing Land and Cattle Ownership
3.07       Individual grazing lands are mostly confined to small plots around
the dwellings and small areas of land unsuitable for crop production lying
within the cropland area. Most grazing areas are communal, however, in
Southern Province, with higher village concentrations and more intensive
cropping, the grazing land available close to the villages is about 20-25 ha



- 14 -
per family whereas in Kabwe district the average is over 30 ha. Considerable
areas of grazing land have been enclosed with the consent of chiefs, village
headmen and other users of these areas. Consent for the enclosure of
additional areas is most easily obtained in areas where human and cattle
population density is lowest. In the higher density areas where common
grazing land might not be available for enclosure, farmers are prepared to
enclose part of their unused crop land for development of improved pasture.
Among the 7,000 families in the Project area, 5,000 to 6,000 families are
thought to be cattle owners with a total of 80,000 head, including 30,000
breeding cows and 20,000 males for draft purposes. Except for about 400 head
of dairy type crossbreds, all are of the Tonga breed, an indigenous Sanga Zebu
type, well adapted to the conditions of the area. Comparative average herd
sizes would be 20 for Mazabuka and Monze districts and 25 for Kabwe.
C. Livestock/Crop Production Systems
Traditional Practices
3.08       The traditional smallholder operates a closely integrated
crop/livestock system and, although the ownership of cattle is important for
prestige and as a means of saving, it is still more important as a source of
draught power. Cattle feed mostly on unimproved grazing and unused crop
areas, although the quality of feed on these areas is high early in the wet
season and the stocking rates are usually low, the grasses become rank and
unpalatable as the dry season progresses, and are eventually burned.
Immediately following harvest, crop stubble and residues are grazed. Farmers
with dambos or within reach of the Kafue flats graze their cattle on such
areas during the dry season. In general, however, the cattle herd declines in
weight and subsequent work and breeding performances are adversely affected.
3.09       Cattle are confined throughout the year in small night kraals which
are usually unhygienic and muddy during the wet season. Mating is not
controlled but the peak calving season occurs naturally at the beginning of
the wet season., During the wet season some lactating cows are milked for
family milk consumption, with small surpluses being sold in the villages at
prices of KO.30 to KO.40 per liter. Performance is low under these
conditions, with calving rate averaging about 45%, calf mortality above 20%,
adult mortality 7%-and offtake about 5%. Only aged animals are sold and these
weigh about 200 kg for females and 300 kg for spent draught animals. Mature
native cows produce about 200 kg of milk during 120 days. Farmers
participating in the Rural Milk Scheme have progressed to the point of having
constructed fence, milking shelters, water supplies, and planting improved
star grass pastures and plots of leucaena. They have purchased crossbred
cattle and are providing better manaLgement and health care. Under these
conditions, the calving rate has increased to about 65-70% and milk production
averages about 730 liters per lactation, although some farmers are able to get
up to 1,000 liters per lactation from the improved stock.
Smallholder Milk Producers
3.10       There are about 100,000 families country-wide on reserve and trust-
lands who produce small quantities of milk under traditional methods for their
own use and for local sale. There is a potential for increasing this
production by providing a market outlet for milk surplus to local requirements



- 15 -
and also through better animal health and improved management to further
increase the number of cows with live calves and to increase milk yield per
lactation. The major constraint impeding the realization of this potential in
areas adjacent to urban centers is the absence of an established milk market
outlet and a dependable milk collection service. A significant part of this
potential production can be expected to flow to the market together with the
more intensive production which would come from improved crossbred cattle as
the required market and services are established. Typical smallholder units
in the proposed production area average about 12 to 15 ha of cropland, of
which 5 to 6 ha are cultivated annually, and 6 to 10 ha are kept fallow for
grazing natural grasses. The share of common land available to each family is
20 to 30 ha. The average farm unit has 20 to 25 head of cattle of which two
to four are work oxen and six are mature cows. Total annual production
including home consumption and sales consist of 7 tons of maize, 180 kg
groundnuts, 250 kg of sunflower, vegetables for home use, about 350 kg of milk
and one culled cow or one ox each year. The labor force is occupied 80% of
the time with crop production mostly November through January and May through
August, but is underutilized the remainder of the year. The net value of pro-
duction is calculated to be about K1,200 or K200 per capita. Cattle contri-
bute 30-40% of value of production. Crop production uses about 460 man/days
annually returning K1.80 per day. Labor requirements for cattle are estimated
at 150 man/days per year. Total available labor in the average family (para.
3.06) is about 1,000 man/days per annum, present demand represents about 60%
(600 man/days) of available manpower.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
Project Rationale and Objectives
4.01       Milk production for commercial sales in Zambia has been declining
steadily over the past 10 years while demand has been steadily rising. Some
of this gap has been offset by large imports of powder and butter oil to pro-
duce reconstituted milk, however, GRZ's precarious trade balance has led to a
reduction in the foreign exchange available to purchase the ingredients, dras-
tically reducing the total milk supply(para. 1.20). The locally produced milk
supply originates a-lmost exclusively from large commercial expatriate farmers
with a smaller supply from state farms. There are no commercial sales by
traditional smallholders (para. 1.05). The latter group represents the best
potential in the long term to develop a milk supply which could have a signi-
ficant impact on the country's overall milk production. The Project would
develop a method by which traditional cattle owners can gradually move into
successful milk production and sales. There are, however, a number of diffi-
cult technical and traditional obstacles to overcome and there are certain
risks which are inherent in a Project attempting to introduce a change in tra-
ditional methods. It is for this reason that it should be regarded as a Pilot
Project and would be structured so as to develop over a six year period in two
phases. The second stage of development would depend upon the progress of the
initial stage. It is expected that there could be an indication of such
progress by Project Year Three when a mid-term review would evaluate farmer
participation in the first phase in order to decide the modifications
necessary for an effective second phase of the project. The Mazabuka/Monze
districts would be developed first, with the Kabwe district to follow.



- - 16 -
4.02       The Project would, over a six year period, assist about 1,800
cattle owning families in three districts to make the transition to improved
livestock management, and would thereby increase family incomes. This change
would be achieved through a number of coordinated activities to be implemented
in the Project area. These activities would include: establishment of milk
collection services; intensification of extension and animal health services
supported by relevant training; provision of production credit at terms
suitable for dairy development; and provision of a source of crossbred dairy
cattle. The Project would provide for a Project Management Unit (PMU) to be
established within MAWD responsible for overall Project implementation and
execution. MAWD's Planning Unit wouLd assign an evaluation officer to the PMU
to assist in monitoring and evaluation of the Project. Specifically, the
Project would finance the following components:
(a) Farm Development
The Project would support a program to increase
domestic milk supply by assisting traditional
smallholders to enter intoD milk production for sale
on a regular basis. It wDuld provide for the
services required to suppDrt dairy development, for
the production of crossbred dairy cattle, and credit
for smallholder purchase of production inputs.
(b) Animal Husbandry Extension and Veterinary Services
The Project would support intensification and
improvement of these services in the proposed dis-
tricts. Staff would receive specialized dairy
training at the Palabana Dairy Training Center. The
Project would provide for additional veterinary
staff along with three expatriate volunteer
veterinary officers, housing, equipment, and
vehicles for AAs and VAs in the sub-centers which
are not provided under the Southern Province Project
(para. 1.24).
(c)  Smallholder Credit
CFC would receive Project funds on-lent to them by
Treasury to provide credit to participating dairy
producers. Project funds would provide for an added
office in Mazabuka if rental facilities are
unavailable and additional staff, vehicles, office
equipment and operating funds to administer and
supervise Project borrowers.
(d) Heifer Farm Development and Production
To supplement the present limited supply of
crossbred heifers, the Project would provide funds
to improve and expand the Chisamba Ranch presently
operated by Zambia Agricultural Development Ltd
(ZADL) as a beef ranch. Production would be
converted to breeding crossbred heifers. The
Project would finance capital improvements to the
ranch infrastructure, provide for a skilled ranch
manager, vehicles, tractors and equipment, and staff
housing.



- 17 -
(e) Milk Collection Services
The Dairy Produce Board (DPB) would establish a milk
collection system to be financed with Project funds.
The service would require construction of country
milk depots for assembling farmer's production; two
milk cooling centers with required equipment; and
milk collection trucks suitable for the amount and
the location of the milk to be carried. The
Project would provide for a transport manager
to supervise the entire collection scheme. Funds
would also be provided for prompt repair of road
"bad spots" on milk collection routes when in the
judgment of the transport manager regular
operation of collection services would be
endangered. Follow up road maintenance activity
would be coordinated with district road maintenance
authorities.
(f) A Project Management Unit (PMU), responsible for
implementation and execution of the Project, would
be established in Department of Agriculture of
MAWD. The Project would provide for an
internationally recruited project manager, financial
controller and local supporting staff.
B. Detailed Features
Farm Development (Tables T 3a-3f)
4.03       It is expected that approximately 1,800 farmers would participate
over the six-year period of the Project implementation.  Of this group, a
total of about 600 of the more progressive farmers (Type A) would borrow to
develop small crossbred dairy units. Investments at farm level on each farm
would include: one kilometer of fence for paddocks; a simple shed-type
building for milking; feeding facilities; a small area of Leucaena 6/, and
the purchase of basic dairy and animal health equipment. Project farmers
would receive assistance in locating and constructing water wells from MAWD's
regular rural water supply program on a grant basis. MAWD would be expected
to provide, as a priority, the required assistance to type A farmers. The
MAWD wells are cement lined, concrete sealed tops with hand pumps and it is
accepted practice for farmers to contribute all the unskilled labor for the
installation. In the second year of development, each farmer would purchase
three crossbred heifers close to calving and one crossbred bull, then an
additional two crossbred heifers the following year. The bull would also be
used with the farmer's traditional herd, and it is expected that milk
production from the traditional herd would also increase and be available for
sale. It is estimated that 1,200 traditional farmers (Type B) in the same
areas as the Type A progressive farmers, would take advantage of the improved
extension and veterinary service and the milk collection system to begin
selling milk produced by their local cattle. They would borrow for the
purchase of crossbred bulls to upgrade their cattle and they would construct
6/   A palatable leguminous perennial low growing bushy tree.



- 18 -
simple holding pens for milking and purchase hand/spray pumps for external
parasite control.
4.04       The Project Management Unit (PMU) staff, assisted by field staff
would organize a program to keep potential producers in the Project area
informed of Project developments and of the opportunities to participate in
commercial milk sales. The program would include identification and selection
of Type A farmers. In order to keep milk collection costs at a minimum the
criteria to be followed for selection of Type A farmers would include:
(a)  groupings of 8 to 10 farms located within 3 to 4 km
of future collection points to be situated on
all-weather roads;
(b)  farms with land available ior fencing  improved pas-
ture plots upon agreement with neighbors and/or
headmen, or with land not needed for food crop
cultivation;
(c)  creditworthiness and a demonstrated ability and
readiness to adopt improved cattle management
practices and an understanding of the need to use
credit plus at least 20% of- their own cash for these
purposes (a pre-preparation survey was conducted to
identify these requirements);
(d) in the first group, recogniLzed leaders in each area
who are considered progressive by neighbors and
could serve as demonstrators for later applicants.
The traditional Type B farmer would need to satisfy (a) above but the
remaining criteria would not be as necessary since it is expected that
interest would build as a result of the activity and involvement of the A
Group.
Animal Husbandry Extension (Table T-2a
4.05       Responsibility for extension services to dairy farmers lies with
the senior dairy officer (SDO) - Lusa]ca and the Provincial dairy officers
(PDO) in Central and Southern Province. In addition, each of the districts
has an animal husbandry officer (DAHO). The dairy development capability of
the existing DOA extension service would be increased in the Project areas
through the recruitment, training and posting of 14 additional AAs
(Agricultural Assistants) to meet the intensive demand for extension
assistance on Type A farms through to the sixth year of development. These
AAs are available, and with specialized dairy training could become the
nucleus team for future expansion of similar Projects in new areas. Assurance
was obtained from GRZ that at least 12 AAs would be posted during Project year
one. One dairy development officer wDuld be selected, trained and posted to
each district. Each existing and new AA would be given three months initial
training at Palabana (para. 1.15) and thereafter would receive regular
training at sessions of two week duration as part of their ongoing training.
A bicycle would be provided to each camp AA or Commodity Demonstrator (CD) in
Kabwe districts, additional AAs and the District Dairy Officers (DDOs) would



- 19 -
each be provided with a motorcycle.  Three houses would be provided for the
DDOs.
4.06       Dairy husbandry extension would be provided in Project areas as a
specialized activity included in the range of services covered by the existing
extension staff of the DOA. Assistance at farm level would be provided from
the 22 existing agricultural camps in the Project area with additional staff
to assist in the initial work load and strengthened subject matter
specialization at the district level. It is expected that each AA or CD would
eventually be advising four groups containing 60 to 80 farm families of whom
20 to 30 would be Type A farmers. In Southern Province, the DOA extension
service would be strengthened and provided with vehicles through the Southern
Province Agricultural Development Project being prepared for World Bank
financing. The requirements for dairy development would be made to fit into
the overall plan for the extension service by the addition of specialized
dairy husbandry training in regular training sessions; and by the
establishment of specialized courses for farmers at the Farmer Training
Centers (FTCs). In the Central Province (Kabwe district) the strengthening of
services specifically for dairy development would be carried out under the
Project. Additional specialized staff would be trained and provided with
appropriate vehicles. The increased service would eventually be absorbed into
the Province-wide DOA extension organization. Housing where required would be
constructed for DDOs. The Project would finance incremental operating costs
associated with dairy development. The Project Manager would coordinate the
Project administration and implementation activities with District Dairy
officers and the District Advisory Committees (Para 5.01). He would also
assist in the formulation of the design and the technical content of the
several training programs.
Veterinary Services (Table T-2b)
4.07       The danger of high mortality rates amongst crossbred cattle observ-
ed in the RMPS has illustrated the need for intensified veterinary services in
areas where crossbred dairy production is being developed. The Department of
Veterinary and Tsetse Control Services (DVTCS) which would be responsible for
providing services, would recruit, train and locate in the dairy project areas
an additional six veterinary assistants (VAs) whose sole responsibility would
be to provide support to Project participants. Farmers working with crossbred
cattle for the first time will be confronted with some cattle disorders not
previously experienced. Since rapid diagnosis and treatment will be essential
for the early success of the Project, the six VAs would be supported by three
veterinarian officers (VOs), two have been recruited and are now on the job,
one located in each district center. These VOs are international volunteer
veterinary graduates. The required VAs are presently available in adequate
numbers. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that DVTCS would assign six
veterinary assistants (VAs) to the Project area.
4.08       Each of the VAs and VOs would be provided with a motorcycle to per-
mit the required mobility. In Southern Province the district veterinary offi-
cers would be provided with vehicles through the Southern Province
Agricultural Development Project, but in Kabwe district an additional
motorcycle will be needed for the District Veterinary Officer (DVO). The DVO
and volunteer VOs would live in the district centers where they would operate
from the existing veterinary offices, but would be expected to find their own
accomodation. VAs would live and work from the most central veterinary
station in each area and



- 20 -
would be provided with a standard house constructed as a Project cost. In
Kabwe district, a refrigerator would be provided for each of these stations
and sundry veterinary equipment, syringes, forceps, drenching guns,
emasculators, calving and dehorning equipment would be provided for each
additional VA and VO. The veterinary stations from where the VAs will operate
would be provided each year with the chemicals, vaccines and pharmaceuticals
required for prevention or treatment of the most important diseases. These
are: tick-borne diseases, anthrax, haemorrhagic septicaemia, black quarter,
brucellosis and internal parasites. All cattle would be vaccinated yearly
against anthrax and black quarter, all female calves at eight months of age
would be vaccinated with strain 19 against brucellosis. Vaccinations against
haemorrhagic septicaemia and liver fluke would be carried out in susceptible
areas as needed, and all cattle would be sprayed weekly against ticks. Calves
would be treated on average three times against internal parasites. The cost
of all materials used for veterinary service and treatment would be paid for
by participating farmers who would have the option of purchasing directly from
local suppliers. However, existing vaccination programs for anthrax, black
quarter, haemorhagic septicemia and brucellosis would continue to be carried
out under normal veterinary services.
4.09       The Provincial Veterinary Officer (PVO) together with the Project
Manager and the District Veterinary Officer would be responsible jointly for
planning and implementing the veterinary support program for Project farmers.
At the district level, the program would be executed through the volunteer
Veterinary Officer. They in turn, would constantly supervise the Project
Veterinary Assistants (VA) in their districts. The VAs would make regular
farm visits to Project participants for routine treatments, monitoring the
animal health situation and would provide instruction to farmers in basic
disease prevention practices. Complicated diagnosis and urgent treatments
would be referred to the VOs. VOs and PVOs would prepare estimates of annual
material requirements for the PMU.
Training
4.10       The Project would provide for the costs of training for both the
animal husbandry AAs and the Veterinary Department's VAs assigned to the
Project area. Assurance was obtained from Government that the two services
would coordinate and integrate the activities of their respective staff in the
execution of the Project, and arrange for them to train jointly at the
Palabana Dairy Training Center. This has particular importance because of the
existing departmental separation of these critical support services. Palabana
operations, staffing and facilities are financed by the Netherlands assistance
agency.   The training center's administration would structure a practical
dairy smallholder short course for Project staff. Project funds would be
provided for overseas training.
Credit (Tables T2c-2d)
4.11       The CFC would operate the credit component from its present head-
quarters in Lusaka through offices in Kabwe, Mazabuka and Monze. The senior
credit officer/controller appointed by CFC would be responsible for Project
lending on behalf of the General Manager. His staff in the field would check
credit-worthiness and in collaboration with the DOA would prepare farm plans.
Project participants with approved loans would be issued with local purchase



- 21 -
orders for materials and livestock. These would be provided in-kind with CFC
paying the suppliers and debiting the cost to the participant's account.
Recovery of loans from Type A farms would be through deduction from monthly
milk payments made by DPB.   Recovery from Type B farms would be effected
directly with CFC field officers visiting loanees twice annually; once
following maize sales and once following peak milk sales in January. As a
last resort CFC could repossess livestock. Credit requirements for individual
farm families are calculated to be about K 2,800 (US$3,500) for the A Group
and K 460 (US$575.00) for the B Group. The A Group would borrow over a three
year period K 450 Year 1 for equipment, seed, etc.; K 1,750 Year 2 for three
heifers and a bull; and K 600 Year 3 for two added heifers. Group B would
borrow K 460 at the beginning of their development for a crossbred bull.
Total project credit requirements have been estimated to be K 2.0 million
(US$2.5 million) (Table T-2c). The Project would provide for incremental CFC
staff for Project generated credit administration and supervision. Added
staff would include a credit controller for Lusaka; field officers-one each
for Monze and Kabwe; and establishment of an additional field office and staff
in Mazabuka. The Project would provide for vehicles, office equipment,
furniture and incremental operating costs.
4.12       Historically, CFC has operated with grant funds which it lent at
9-10%, but was in most years unable to operate at a profit (para. 2.04).
CFC's current interest rate of 10% is not only too low to cover its cost of
operations but is also negative in real terms.   The maximum interest rate for
all domestic lending currently imposed by the Bank of Zambia is 12%.
Assurances were obtained that CFC shall at all times ensure that the spread
between its borrowing and lending interest rates will generate sufficient
revenues to cover its debts, operating costs and provide for a reserve for bad
debts ard a reasonable profit.  An on-lending rate of about 5% by GRZ to CFC,
which is the same rate agreed upon under EPADP for funds on-lent to the
cooperative unions would provide CFC a sufficient spread to cover all
operating costs (Tables T-2d and T-4), interest payments to Treasury (Table
T-4), and allows for a 2% provision for bad debts. This should be adequate
considering the value of cattle as collateral, both those purchased under the
Project and the farmer's traditional herd. The higher interest rate of 11%
charged to Project participants -- AFC currently charges only 9% -- would also
take into account the higher credit risk of a smallholder dairy pilot project,
although it is assumed that the Type A farmer would be a more progressive
farmer. To reduce the risk of mortality among the crossbred bulls to be
purchased by type B farmers, the possibility of developing a workable
insurance plan would be explored. All credit arrangements would be contingent
on results of the establishment of ZADB (para. 1.14) which is being
strengthened by technical assistance under the EPADP.
Heifer Farm Development and Production (Table T-2e)
4.13       To supplement the existing supply of crossbred cattle, the 15,000
ha Chisamba Ranch of the ZADL would be developed for the production of Sahiwal
or Afrikander x Holstein, crossbred heifers and bulls. Development would be
aimed at increasing the ranch carrying capacity up to approximately 4,000
livestock units and producing annually 550 heifers mostly for sale to Project
farmers. By the fifth year of the Project, farmers would require 1,000
in-calf heifers, 300 would be supplied from Batoka and 150 would be purchased
from the commercial sector, leaving 550 to be provided from Chisamba Ranch.



- 22 -
The Project would provide for the fol:Lowing infrastructural and operational
development:
(i)  fencing the equivalent of about 90 km, to increase
present paddock sub-divisions to accomodate
increased cattle numbers and to utilize additional
grazing areas;
(ii) water supply, drilling two new boreholes, cleaning
existing boreholes, renovating pumps, windmills,
watering troughs and waterholes, and earthen dam
improvement;
(iii) tree clearing of about 4,000 ha, stump removal on
300 ha, and establishment of 250 ha of improved
(stargrass) pasture;
(iv) construction of one new dip tank and improvement of
those existing and construction of two new handling
yards;
(v) purchase of a tractor and trailer, a truck, a four-
wheel drive vehicle and two motorcycles;
(vi) ranch buildings and ranch road improvements; and
(vii) cattle purchase of 1,000 head of Afrikander or
Sahiwal breeding cows to supplement the existing
herd, and 90 highgrade Friesian bulls.
4.14       ZADL would retain ownership of the ranch but the operation and
management of the unit would be turned over to the PMU. The Project would
provide for an appropriately skilled ranch manager who would be responsible to
the PMU. Assurances were obtained that a ranch manager with qualifications
and experience and terms and conditions of employment agreeable to the
Association be employed. It is expected that ranch generated income would
provide for payment of all ranch operating costs which would include interest
and amortization of-the ranch development loan extended to ZADL by Treasury
and a ZADL overhead charge (Table T-51). In addition, ranch operating costs
and capital replacements would be budLgeted annually by ranch management and
any surplus income over these budgeted costs would accrue to ZADL.
Incremental ranch operating costs attributable to Project expansion of
production over the first three Project years would be considered
developmental costs and would be included in capital cost financing. The
Ranch Manager, who would be appointed after consultation with IDA, would have
authority for all day-to-day management decisions and financial authority over
an imprest account to cover the operating budget and responsibility for
administrating and supervising capital improvements. Records and accounts for
Chisamba Ranch would be kept separately from those of other ZADL ranches and
would follow accounting and recording procedures to be agreed with the PMU,
and IDA. Sales and transfers of livestock to and from Chisamba would be made
only in accordance with the overall plan and as agreed with the Steering
Committee. Delivery of heifers, bul:Ls and planting material (Star grass) from
Chisamba would be coordinated with the Project Manager and executed by the



- 23 -
ranch manager. The vehicles at Chisamba would also be used for delivery of
heifers purchased from Batoka and from commercial farmers. The ranch account
would receive payments from CFC for the agreed delivered price of heifers and
for the transport of other inputs.
Milk Collection Services (Tables T2f-2g and Maps Nos. 15775 - 15776).
4.15       The DPB would undertake to purchase all milk of acceptable quality-
delivered to collection depots along the collection routes -- provided this
milk is delivered in time. Milk suppliers in turn would undertake to sell to
the DPB all milk in excess of that needed for family or local consumption. In
the interest of time and cost saving, DPB would undertake to purchase milk at
agreed collection points to be established as depots where eight or more sup-
pliers would assemble their milk for testing, weighing and purchase. To
minimize the cost involved,, the collection route would be selected according
to the number of farmers likely to participate, the rate of development that
could be expected and projections of the quantities of milk that would become
available for purchase. Collection routes would be carefully planned, begin-
ning with those routes having the greatest yearly milk marketing potential
where services could be most easily developed, later extending into other
routes. A mobile collection service may be used at the outset of the Project
with permanent depots being established as centers of production develop.
Despite these cost precautions, DPB would not break-even on the milk
collection services until the eighth year because of the slow build-up of milk
production, the limited scale of the pilot Project, and the long development
period required for establishing a cost effective milk collection system.
4.16       The milk collection service would be operated, by agreement with
suppliers, once daily at a specific time. The object in planning services
would be for all milk to be cooled within four hours of milking time. Final
planning of milk collection service would be carried out only during imple-
mentation and development of the Project and constant review and revisions
would probably be needed. The appraisal projections are based on preliminary
surveys and can only provide the basis for calculating the investment and
operating costs involved, their effect on the cash flow of DPB, and the
factors to be considered in organizing the services.
4.17       To establish the collection, handling and transport system the Pro-
ject would provide financing for the following:
(i)  as many as 25-30 milk collection depots by Project
year six, consisting of a simple 10 m2 building and
basic milk handling equipment;
(ii)  two milk cooling centers complete with equipment to
weigh, test, cool and store milk along with facili-
ties to maintain and wash equipment;
(iii)  vehicles and supplies required to operate the col-
lection system would consist of a 1-ton pickup
for the transportation manager, two 1-ton pickups,
two 3-ton trucks, and three 5-ton trucks all for
milk pickup; milk cans, testing equipment and
measuring pails; and



- 24 -
(iv)  salaries and wages for incremental staff for the
milk collection services, for the transport manager
and for operating and maintenance costs for all
collection vehicles.
4.18       Assurance was obtained during negotiations that the DPB,
would employ a Milk Transport Manager, whose qualifications and experience
shall be acceptable to the Association, who would coordinate with DPB's Area
Manager and be responsible for milk collection from Project areas. He,
together with the Project Manager, would plan each route; plan the
establishment of milk cooling centers; order the necessary vehicles and plant;
and be responsible for staff management. He would monitor the performance of
each route; modifying and revising routes, vehicles, and staff allocations as
found necessary. The existing laboraLtory supervisor at the Midlands plant
would be responsible for milk testing. The existing clerical unit would
calculate the 10-day milk quantities of each supplier and transmit these, with
10-day milk quality reports to the data processors. The data processors would
prepare a monthly statement for each supplier under contract and would prepare
a cheque for the net amount due to each, after making the agreed debt service
deductions. A single cheque covering all deductions would be forwarded to CFC
with a statement of the amount deducted from and paid by each supplier. The
Transport Manager working with the Project Manager would decide where
immediate attention to road "bad spots" would be necessary and local
contractors would be employed for prompt road repair. There would be
coordination with the District CouncLl road maintenance units who would be
responsible for follow up maintenance and permanent road repair. Except for
these emergency situations, maintenance should remain the responsibility of
the District Council units. Maintaining a regular milk collection schedule
should have the highest priority and the Transport Manager would use his
authority and Project funds if this schedule is endangered by poor road
conditions. It is expected that this would only be a problem during the
height of the wet season, a period that seldom exceeds two to three weeks in a
year.
Project Management (Table T-2h)
4.19       The Project would provide for an internationally-recruited Project
Manager, a Financial Controller and an Evaluation Officer to be seconded to
the PMU by MAWD. The PMU would be supported by an appropriate secretarial
staff with the required office equipment, furnishing and supplies. The
Project would also finance two vehicles for the PMU.
C. Project Costs
4.20       The total costs of the Project are estimated at K9.3 million
(US$11.6 million), of which US$4.2 million (36%) represents the foreign
exchange costs. The costs include about KO.14 million of taxes and duties.
The Project provides for a total of 204 man months of technical assistance, 72
m/m each for a financial controller and a Project manager and 60 mIm for the
ranch manager at an estimated cost of K1,OOO,OOO (US$1,250,000). This
includes cost of salaries, fees, travel and housing.  The average cost per m/m
(for salaries, fees, etc) is estimated at K4,900 (US$6,100). The phasing of
Project costs is given in Table T-2 and costs for



- 25 -
each of the components are detailed in Tables T-2a through T-2h. Project
costs are summarized below:
Foreign    Base
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total  Exchange  Cost
- - - K  '000 - -    - - -US$'000- - -       %        %
On-Farm
Development 1/    437    131    568   547    163    710       23        8
Animal Husbandry
Extension          394     70   464   493      87    580      15        6
Veterinary
Services           141    55    196   176    69   245         28        3
Credit 2/          1,873    498  2,371 2,342    622  2,964      21       34
Heifer Farm
Development        511    952  1,463   639  1,159  1,828      65       21
Milk Collection
Service           426    521    947   533    651  1,184       55       13
Project Management  483    567  1,050   604    709  1,313       54       15
Total Base Cost  4,265  2,794  7,059 5,334  3,490  8,824      39      100
Physical Contin-
gencies            189    70    259   237    87    324        27        4
Price Contin-
gencies          1,622   418  2,040 1,912   638  2,550        25       29
Total Project
Costs          6,076  3,282  9,358 7,483  4,215 11,698      36      133
Total Cost Net
of Taxes &
Duties         5,936  3,282  9,218 7,307  4,215 11,522      36      131
1/ Kepresents farmers! contriDution ana GKZ grant for water weII construction
- (Table T-2).
2/ CFC funds for farmer credit and services.
Project costs have been estimated on the basis of January 1982 prices.
Physical contingencies of 10% have been included on capital costs of vehicles
and equipment, and on all construction works. Price contingencies have been
included on the international component of vehicles, equipment, and
internationally-recruited staff at annual rates of 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982,
7.5% in 1983-85, and 6% thereafter. Price contingencies on the local
component have been included at an annual rate of 12% throughout the Project
period. No price contingencies have been included on cattle purchases since
it is assumed that the base price will prevail in all transactions between
Chisamba Ranch and Project farmers. Price contingencies total about 29% of
project baseline costs.
4.21        Project costs include incremental operating expenses of all
services - animal husbandry extension, veterinary service, credit service,
milk collection, and project administration - throughout the Project period,
operating expenses of Chisamba Ranch during the three-year development period,



- 26 -
and the salary of the Chisamba Ranch Manager for five years. Due to the pilot
character of the Project, its small scale, and the long gestation period of a
dairy project, the milk collection and credit service would only reach a
self-supporting level after Project completion. Incremental annual recurrent
costs for veterinary service and animal husbandry extension would total
approximately K173,000 (US$0.2 million equivalent) by Project year 6. This
amount should not represent an excessive increase in GRZ' normal recurrent
budget, since most of the staff positions associated with the project are
regular postings under MAWD's recurrent budget.
D. Financing
4.22       The financing of Project costs, net of taxes and duties, would be
as follows:
US$ Million          %
IDA                                     7.5            65
Government of Zambia                    3.4            30
Farmers                                 0.6              5
Total                               11.5           100
The proposed IDA Credit of US$7.5 million would be on standard terms to the
Government of Zambia and would cover all the foreign exchange costs of the
Project (US$4.1 million) and 46% of local costs, or about 65% of total
Project costs net of taxes and duties. Farmers would contribute US$0.6
million equivalent for on-farm investments (excluding farm labor value).
Government of Zambia would provide the remaining US$3.4 million net of taxes
and duties. The terms and conditions of this financing plan were agreed upon
at negotiations.
4.23       IDA funds and GRZ contributions for the animal husbandry
extension, veterinary service and Project management components (K2.4
million including contingencies), and. the road spot repair and farm water
supply sub-components (K0.5 million including contingencies) would be
channelled to the Permanent Secretary, MAWD, and would be subwarranted by
him directly to district operational centers through an imprest fund
controlled by the Project's financial staff. It is a condition of credit
effectiveness that the funds required for these components would be
deposited by GRZ in the Bank of Zambia under arrangements satisfactory to the
Association, at the beginning of each. quarter, and that the initial amount has
been deposited. IDA funds and GRZ contribution for the milk collection
service (Kl.l million including contingencies) would be channelled by GRZ to
DPB as a loan for 20 years at 11% including an eight-year grace period. IDA
funds and GRZ contribution for the heifer farm (K1.8 million including
contingencies) would be channelled byr GRZ to ZADL as a loan for 15 years at
11% including three years grace period. IDA funds and GRZ contribution for
the farm credit and credit service (R:2.5 million including contingencies)
would be channelled by GRZ to CFC as a loan (on conditions stated in para.



- 27 -
4.12). It is a condition for Credit effectiveness that GRZ would have
executed subsidiary loan agreements acceptable to IDA with DPB, ZADL, and CFC
respectively stipulating the conditions and terms for such loans.
E. Procurement
4.24      Procurement under the Project would be in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. Specifically,7/
(a)  orders for vehicles, spare parts, machinery, equipment and fences
(US$0.8 million) would be bulked as far as practicable. Orders
expected to cost US$100,000 and above would be procured by the PMU
through international competitive bidding (ICB) from suppliers who
maintain or agree to maintain an adequate after-sales service and
inventory of spare parts;
(b)  orders for vehicles, machinery, equipment, and fences that cannot be
bulked in packages of US$100,000 and above would be procured in
accordance with existing local competitive bidding procedures which
are satisfactory;
(c)  the purchases of cattle for Chisamba Ranch (US$0.6 million) would be
from countries adjacent to Zambia with the type of cattle required
and with health regulations acceptable to the Zambian livestock and
veterinary services. Purchase would be made at regularly scheduled
advertised public sales and to the extent this source would not
provide the required supply, purchases would be from cattle owners
following widely circulated advertising by Chisamba Ranch management
of intention to purchase.
(d)  civil works, including the construction of buildings, installation
of water supplies, road maintenance, Chisamba land clearing and
pasture improvements (US$1.4 million) would be too small and
scattered to attract international interest. Procurement would be
by bidding or by force account, although foreign firms would be
entitled to compete;
(e)  other goods required for dairy farm development would be obtained by
the farmers through existing commercial channels;
(f)  the selection and employment of technical assistance staff (US$1.2
million) would be in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
Draft tender documents for all contracts to cost in excess of US$100,000 would
be submitted to IDA for approval before bid invitations are issued, and bid
analysis and recommendations for award would be submitted to IDA for comments
before contracts would be awarded. In the evaluation of bids for (a) above,
bona fide domestic manufacturers would be awarded a preference of 15% or the
existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the procurement procedures outlined above would be followed.
7/ All figures in this paragraph exclude contingences.



- 28 -
F. Disbursements
4.25      Disbursements of funds from the Credit would be on the following
basis:
(a)   70% of the cost of civil works (US$1.0 million);
(b)i  100% of foreign expenditure and 80% of local expenditure for
vehicles, spare parts, equipment and materials (US$0.7 million);
(b)ii 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for
operating costs of vehicles, machinery, veterinary supplies and
materials. (US$0.6 million);
(c)   100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance
(US$1.2 million);
(d)   100% of foreign expenditures for breeding stock required for
Chisamba Ranch (US$0.6 million);
(e)   80% of the credit requirements for loan for farm development
disbursed by CFC to participating farmers (US$2.5 million); and
(f)   an unallocated amount representing contingencies on the above items
and transferable to them as required (US$1.0 million).
4.26      Disbursements under (b)i, (b)ii foreign expenditures, (c) and (d)
would be fully documented; any civil works under (a) not carried out by force
account would also be fully documented. Disbursements against (e) would be on
the basis of certificates of expenditure signed by the General Manager of
CFC. Disbursements for expenditures under (a) by force account and against
(b)ii local operating expenditures would be on the basis of certificates of
expenditures signed by the Project Manager. Disbursements under (b)ii for
local operating costs and (a) for civil works under force account will be made
against certificates of Expenditure documentation for which is not submitted
for review but is retained by the borrower and made available for inspection
by the Association during the course of a Project supervision mission. Funds
remaining in the Credit at Project completion would be cancelled, unless
otherwise agreed by IDA. A schedule showing the estimated disbursements under
the Project is at Table T-1.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.27      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that separate accounts
relating to expenditures under the Project would be kept by the PMU, ZADL, DPB
and CFC, that these accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and that such audilted accounts would be submitted to IDA
within six months of the end of each financial year. The auditors would
specifically review and comment on the procedures used for control of
disbursement against certificates of expenditure. Audited accounts for ZADL,
DPB and CFC are normally produced within six months of the end of the
financial year.



- 29 -
H. Environmental Impact
4.28       The Project as structured would have a generally favorable impact
on the environment. Project recommendation to participants to establish
perennial grasses and leguminous tree plantings (leucaena) in their present
crop rotations represent good conservation practices and would reduce the
danger of soil erosion on smallholder farms. Pesticide use under the Project
is confined to direct spraying on cattle to reduce the threat of tick-borne
diseases and to the maintenance of proper acaracide solution in the existing
dips. Pasture improvement, seeding permanent grasses, and rotational grazing
to reduce overgrazing would be established as regular management practices on
the Chisamba Ranch. In addition, several earthen dams would be constructed on
the ranch to preserve water and to reduce rapid run off, always a serious
erosion threat.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01       Overall responsibility for macro level policy planning and
coordination among GRZ agencies and parastatals would rest with the Permanent
Secretary (PS) of MAWD who would chair a high level Project Steering
Committee (PSC). This Committee, which would meet at least every three months
to review progress, discuss policy matters, resolve bottlenecks and endorse
the decisions of the Project Management Unit, would include the directors of
the DOA, the DVTCS, the MAWD Planning Unit; and representatives of CFC, DPB
and ZADL. Each District would set up a District Advisory Committee made up of
the PAO and the PVO representing the provinces; its DAO and the DVO; two
typical Type A farmers; and a commercial dairy farmer (Chart 2).
5.02       The Project Management Unit (PMU) would be established in the DOA,
and would report to the Director of Agriculture through the Senior Dairy
Officer. The PMU would liaise with DVTCS and the Planning Unit and would be
responsible for day-to-day project management and execution. It would consist
of an internationally recruited Project Manager (PM) with background in
livestock development, a similarly recruited Financial Controller and support
staff to be seconded to the PMU by MAWD.  It is a condition of credit
effectiveness that the Project Manager whose qualifications and experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association
would have been employed over the life of the Project. Assurance was obtained
at negotiations that the Financial Controller would be employed for the life
of the Project under terms and conditions agreeable to the Association. The
PMU would establish its administrative office in the Department of Agriculture
of MAWD, however, the Project Manager would be based in a field office in
Mazabuka in order to be in close contact with Project activity. He would also
be resident in the Mazabuka area where suitable rented living quarters would
be available. This dual arrangement would not create a problem since Lusaka
and Mazabuka are only 110 km apart and on an excellent highway and
communication between the two is easily maintained. The Project would provide
for the PMU's operating costs.  The responsibilities of the PMU would include:
(a) to draw up annual and quarterly implementation
schedules and budgets together with each of the
participant agencies;



- 30 -
(b) to prepare schedules of capital and recurrent inputs
and to be responsible for ensuring their order and
purchase;
(c) to receive and handle requests from the implementing
agencies concerning matters requiring urgent decisions
and coordination;
(d) to be responsible with the agencies concerned, for
all technical aspects and to ensure that training
programs are carried out;
(e) to continuously monitor the physical and financial
progress of the project prelparing quarterly progress
reports for presentation to the Permanent Secretary and
Steering Committee; and
(f) to recommend modifications to the project as found
necessary by the above monitoring.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.03       It is expected that the activities of the Planning Division of MAWD
would be expanded and their general responsibilities in planning and
evaluation broadened under the terms of the proposed revision and expansion of
the Division to be financed by a bi-lateral donor. Under these circumstances
the Planning Division would be able to assign a full time monitoring and
evaluation officer to the PMU to monitor Project progress in order to evaluate
the Project's rate of development. This exercise would be particularly
important in view of the plan to develop the project in two phases with the
decision to start a second phase conditioned upon the rate of progress
achieved in the first phase (para. 4.01). Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that not later than three years from the Project effectiveness
date and prior to implementation of Phase II, the Borrower and the Association
shall undertake a review to assess the progress achieved in carrying out Phase
I of the Project. The evaluation offiLcer together with the PMU would be
required to present a review of Project Progress which would provide the
following information upon which a joJint decision on Phase II could be
reached: (i) the number of smallholders who have qualified and obtained credit
for dairy development under the Project; (ii) the pattern of milk production
developing among project smallholders; and (iii) a overall analysis of the
condition of the milk industry includiLng production, pricing, processing,
marketing, and consumer demand. A decision to start a second phase would
require Bank approval. After complet:Lon of the Project, GRZ would prepare and
submit to IDA within six months of the completion of disbursements a Project
Completion Report, analyzing the implementation of the Project and its impact
in relation to its objectives.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained
to this effect.



- 31 -
VI. PRODUCTION
A. Smallholder Producers
6.01       The results of the farm survey conducted by MAWD indicate that at
least 600 Type A (progressive group) and about 1,100 Type B (traditional
group) farmers would participate in the milk production program. It is
expected that carefully selected Type A farmers in the first phase area
(Mazabuka and Monze) would participate starting with 100 in the first year and
increasing progressively to 400 by year five (Table below). In the Kabwe
area, if a second phase is approved, it is expected that about 70 Type A
farmers would begin production by year four and would increase to 210 by year
six.
6.02       Type B farmers are expected to develop an interest in commercial
milk sales as they observe the production results of their Type A neighbors
and the establishment of a milk collection system. This latter development
has particular importance to the entire production area since all producers
would have to be assured that a dependable outlet for their increased
production is available before they could be expected to invest in production
inputs. It is expected that up to 710 Type B producers in the Monze/Mazabuka
area would be participating by Project year 5 and an additional 400 would join
the Kabwe area. The following table summarizes the phasing in of Type A and B
smallholders.



- 32 -
Summary of Smallholder Participation in Milk Scheme
Project Years
1      2      3      4      5      6
Producer Groups
Route 3 - MAZABUKA
Group A             30     70    120    160    160    160
Group B                    20    830   170   230    230
Route 4 - MONZE
Group A             40    90    150    150    150    150
Group B                    40    120    230    310    310
Route 5 - MONZE
Group A             30     70     90    90      90     90
Group B                    20    150   110    170    170
Route 1 - KABWE
Group A                                  40     90    150
Group B                           60    170    280    280
Route 2 - KABWE
Group A                                  30    60      60
Group B                           :30    80    120    120
Total              100   310    700  1,230  1,660  1,720
6.03        Type A farmers would change certain traditional cattle management
practices in their handling of improved crossbred dairy cattle. Recommended
practices would include cultivation and fertilization of at least 2 ha of
improved pasture preferably star grass, a high yielding perennial now being
grown successfully on commercial farms in the Project area, and also a plot of
leucaena to provide a source of high protein feed. In addition, there would
be dry-season supplemental feeding of maize stover, urea with sunflower or
cotton cake. It is expected that crossbreeds would produce at least 600
liters during their first lactation and 800 liters in subsequent lactations.
Crossbreeds, under similar conditions on RMPS farms, are producing 1,000
liters/lactation and as much as 1,200 liters has been produced in experimental
work at the Mazabuka Research Center.8!
6.04        Type B farmers would improve their traditional methods by
introducing crossbred bulls to sire improved dairy crossbreeds which would
eventually result in increasing milk yields from the present level of 200-250
liters/lactation to about 400 liters. It is expected that their present
management practices would gradually change as they observe the results of
8/ Increasing Milk Production with Friesian Cross - Indigenous Cows by
Cruikshank, Hatakwati and Mjobu - Mazabuka Research Station, 1969.



- 33 -
their more progressive (Group A) neighbors and it can safely be assumed that
many Group B producers would develop into progressive dairy farmers in
response to the marketing opportunities developed under the Project. The
Project financed improved veterinary and extension services would provide
continual management and health control support to all participating
smallholders.
B. Production Increases
6.05       Increases in both milk and meat production for Type A farmers would
come from the establishment of their crossbred (five cows and a bull) herd and
gradual improvement of their traditional herd. The latter averages about 25
animal units and would have the benefit of the use of the Friesian bull to
upgrade the quality of the native milking cows. Milk production from a
crossbred herd would reach about 3,700 liters per year by Project year 10.
Sales of culled cows and males would average 3 or 4 head per year at a total
value of K1,170. Incremental milk production for commercial sale as a result
of Project support, from the same farmer's traditional herd, would reach about
300 liters per year. Incremental annual production at full development by a
typical Type A farmer would total 4,000 liters of milk and about 1,400 kg
(liveweight) of meat. It is assumed that meat production from the traditional
25 cow herd would increase as a result of improved animal health and
veterinary support services provided under the Project. The following is a
summary of a Type A farmer's production increases.
Type A Farm Incremental Production
Year of Development
5                  10
Milk (liters)
Crossbred Herd                      2,550               3,700
Traditional Herd                      290                 300
Total                             2,840               4,000
Meat (kg liveweight)
Crossbred Herd                        500                1,120
Traditional Herd                      275                  278
Total                               825               1,398
6.06       By Project year 10 incremental milk production from a Type B farm
as a result of Project activity would total 1,500 liters per year and
incremental meat production would reach 570 kg liveweight per year. Total
milk production would increase from 480 liters to 1,980 liters by Project year
10 and meat production from 496 kg (liveweight) to 1,067 kg per year.
6.07       Total incremental annual production by both Type A and B farmers
resulting from Project financed support is summarized below:



- 34 -
Total Project Incremental Production Per Year
Year of Development
5                10
Product
Milk (tons)
Type A Farmers                        1,370              2,350
Type B Farmers                          366              1,454
Total                                 1,736              3,804
Meat (tons liveweight)
Type A Farmers                          268                747
Type B Farmers                          144                545
Total                                   412              1,292
Annual incremental milk production for the entire proposed Project area,
assuming Phase II would go forward, would reach 4074 tons (Table T-3g), at
full development by Year 12. Total incremental meat production for the
Project area would reach 1,394 tons liveweight at full development by Project
year 12 (Table T-3h).
Chisamba Ranch Production
6.08      Under the Project, the present beef producing operation would be
converted to crossbreed heifer production. The beef type breeding bulls now
on the ranch would be replaced by a group of Friesian bulls. The 1,350
Sahiwal Cross Afrikander breeding cows now on the ranch would be retained but
would be closely culled to save the best dairy types. The Project would
finance purchase from countries adjacent to Zambia of about 1,000 additional
improved dairy type breeding heifers and improvement to the total ranch
infrastructure (para. 4.13). The present herd of 2,300 AU would be built up
to about 4,000 by year 7. The first group of 240 crossbreed heifers would be
available for sale in Project year 4 and the number would increase annually
thereafter and stabilize at 550 by year 10. Following the initial purchase of
1,000 breeders the production plan calls for purchase of 250 breeders each
year to maintain the breeding herd and to permit the annual sale of at least
550 heifers. Augmenting the breeding herd in this manner rather than
maintaining cow numbers from ranch heifers would prevent in-breeding and would
keep up the quality of the in-calf heifers offered for sale to Project
farmers. In addition to these heifers the ranch would produce for sale
annually at full development 190 cul:L cows, 105 cull heifers, 160 crossbreed
bull yearlings, 100 cull bulls, 375 two-year-old breeding bulls and six culled
aged bulls representing a total values of K610,000.00 per annum. This
represents about a 20% offtake which would be considered high by traditional
standards but can be maintained by tlhe combination of the purchase of breeders
noted above and proper ranch managemeant. If the ranch were to retain enough



35 -
breeding age heifers to maintain the herd cow population after normal culling
the offtake would be 14%. Therefore the 20%, which appears excessive, is a
result of the sale of all two to three-year-old heifers and the annual
purchase of 250 breeders. Coefficients projected are for a 65% calving rate
for the first three years improving to a 70% calving rate, 5% calf mortality,
3% adult mortaiity except for 5% breeding bull mortality (Table T-3i).  Good
management should be able to attain these levels and projecting a 70% calving
rate allows for improvement over this goal.
VII. MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Milk
Market Demand
7.01       Incremental milk production would be  marketed through the DPB milk
collection service established under the Project. The DPB would, by agreement
with Project farmers undertake to purchase all milk of acceptable quality
delivered to collection depots along the proposed collection routes. The milk
of the Monze and Mazabuka areas would be processed at the Mazabuka plant which
DPB plans to install with DANIDA assistance in 1981. The milk of the Kabwe
area would be processed in Lusaka where the existing capacity is adequate for
the production increases of the entire Project area (para. 2.01) in case the
installation of the Mazabuka plant would be delayed for any reason.
7.02       Presently, DPB cannot satisfy demand for fresh and/or recombined
milk. Estimates from 1974 9/ indicate that per capita consumption of fluid
milk in the urban and township areas was 20.4 liters per year and in the rural
areas 2.4 liters per year. The per capita figures for the rural areas, being
an average for the whole country, do not reflect the differences between
traditional milk consuming areas and those areas where milk has not been
consumed in the past and where it remains largely unavailable today. On the
basis of modest increases in per capita consumption between 1974 and 1990 -
from 20.4 liter to 23.2 liter in the urban and township areas, and from 2.4
liter to 3.1 liter in rural areas - total demand for fluid milk is projected
to reach 91 million liters by 1990.  This demand level would require a
quadrupling of present supply. While that level of output may be possible
within the potential of Zambia's existing production capacity it is improbable
that it will be achieved; it is more likely that the current situation would
continue with marketed milk satisfying less than half of estimated demand,
unless Government completely removes import restrictions on ingredients for
reconstituted milk. This is highly unlikely, but in any case demand for fresh
milk would continue to exceed supply well into the future because of the
strong preference a substantial number of consumers have for fresh milk.
Milk Pricing
7.03       Producer prices are set by Government on the basis of milk
production costs on commercial farms (para. 1.23).  Since costs on the
Project's smallholder farms would be considerably lower, producer prices are
sufficiently attractive for Project participants. Even at the modest yield
9/ FAO Perspective Study of Agricultural Development for Zambia. Food Demand
and Nutrition, Rome 1976.



- 36 -
projection of 800 liters per lactation, the current producer pricel/ of
KO.38/1 would offer a high financial return (para. 8.03). In the past,
Government announcement of the new prices lagged far behind the actual data
review and, hence, rendered obsolete the production cost assumptions, thus
frustrating the dairy farmers and making farm budgeting and herd planning
difficult. Assurances were obtained that GRZ would annually review and adjust
milk prices as deemed necessary taking into account the cost of production to
farmers to determine whether producer incentives are adequate and that GRZ and
the Association from time to time would consult on pricing policy.
7.04        In international trade, dairy product stocks declined in 1980,
mainly as a result of substantial import increases of the USSR.  In the EEC,
the world's largest milk producer and exporter, intervention stocks of skim
milk powder were only 0.2 million tons in mid-1980 as compared to 0.9 million
tons at the middle of 1978. At the same time, international prices rose. For
the first time since 1973/74, skim milk powder prices again reached US$1,000
per ton f.o.b., twice the new minimum export price established under GATT
International Dairy Arrangement. Also international prices for butter oil,
the second important ingredient of reconstituted milk, strengthened during
1980. As of October 1980, GATT raised the minimum export price of butter oil
to US$1,200 per ton while market prices were at that time almost twice as
high. For 1981, world milk output is forecast to grow somewhat faster than in
1980 thanks to an increase of dairy cows and a still unbroken upward trend in
yields per cow in the developed market economies. By contrast, the
expansion in demand for dairy products may slow down, epecially in the deficit
developing countries, owing to the recent sharp increases in international
prices. For the purpose of the Project analysis, 1980-prices have, therefore,
been reduced by 10% in real terms and kept constant over the life of the
Project (Table T-8).
B. Beef
7.05        Incremental carcass meat production, which would represent less
than 5% of present marketed supply, would be readily absorbed on the local
market. Most cattle for slaughter would be marketed through commercial
channels (private butchers) who have adequate capacity for the additional
slaughter and meat processing. Prior to 1976 (FAO, op cit), annual marketed
consumption of fresh beef was 6.9 kg per capita. In 1976 imports were
suspended with a corresponding decline in supply. MAWD estimated that,
between 1976 and 1978, numbers of cattle slaughtered annualy averaged 110,000
head, corresponding to an annual consumption of 4.1 kg per capita.
Consequently, the present supply of fresh meat cannot meet the demand and this
situation cannot be expected to changie significantly in the foreseeable
future.
7.06        Official producer livestoc]k prices ranging from KO.9 to K1.1 kg per
kg liveweight are equivalent to prices currently paid by private sector
butchers. In the economic analysis, the beef price has been based on the
import parity price, amounting to K1.40/kg liveweight (Table T-8).
10/ As of July 1, 1981, GRZ has announced an increase in the producer price to
K 0.38/liter and a further increase scheduled for January 1, 1982 to K
0.43. The July 1 increase to producers was accompanied by an increase to
K 0.50/liter for retail sales.



- 37 -
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Beneficiaries
8.01       The direct beneficiaries of the investments in the Project would be
1,700 to 1,800 smallholder participating farmers representing approximately
11,000 inhabitantsll/ of the three districts. The Project area population is
estimated to be about 45,000 thus the Project would have a direct impact on
close to 25% of the area's population. It is expected that a part of the
increased milk and meat production would remain in the area providing a source
of animal protein year round not presently available to all rural and small
town dwellers.
Incremental Farm Income
8.02       Individual farm operators expected to participate in the Project
have been separated into two categories: Type A, progressive farmers, and
Type B, traditional farmers; the number of farms in each group are shown in
para. 6.02.
Type A Farms
8.03       Type A farmers would derive incremental income from their five
cows-one bull crossbreeding operations along with a related increase from
their traditional herds. All income from the crossbreed herd is considered
incremental since the herd would be established as a result of Project
support. A typical Type A farmer would increase his net annual income from
K436 to K1,089 by Project year 5 and by Project year 9 the first year
following debt repayment his net incremental return would reach K2,027 (Table
T-3c). It is estimated that the added crossbreed herd with its feeding and
maintenance requirements would require an additional 153 man/days per year of
family labor (Table T-3b). At full development the increaed income would
provide for a return of K13.24 per day for the incremental labor. The Type A
farmer's annual total production would return a gross of K3,478 from the sales
of both milk and meat. His annual operating costs not including labor would
increase from K20 to K861 at full development.
Type B Farms
8.04       Approximately 1,100 to 1,200 Type B farms are expected to be
selling milk by Project year 10. The purchase of a crossbred bull, fencing
material, and a bucket-type spray pump, totalling K578.00 would be the only
cash outlay required over normal operating expenses. However, the intensive
extension, training and veterinary support program would assist this group in
improving their traditional animal husbandry and health care practices.
Establishing their improved practices would increase operating expenses from
the minimal K20.00 per year traditionally spent for vaccinations to K155.00
per year for supplementary dry season bull feed, parasite control,
vaccinations, and for maintenance of equipment (Table T-3e). The typical Type
B farmer's net annual incremental return would reach K323 by Project year 5
and at full development K804 (Table T-3f). The improved practices and
establishing a regular milking routine would increase man/days of labor by 70
11/ Estimating 6 people to a family.



38 -
days. The benefits for incremental liabor from incremental returns would reach
K11.48 per day by Project year 10. Gross yearly value at full developmenL
would be K752 for milk and K1,021 for meat totalling K1,773 per Type B farm.
The total value of all Project farmers' incremental production of meat and
milk at full development is summarized below:
Incremental Value of Project Production
-----Year 5----             ---Year 10----
Amount     Value            Amount   Value
ton       K'OO0             ton     K'O0O
Type A Farmers
Milk                 1,370         520           2,350       893
Meat                   268         268             747       747
Type B Farmers
Milk                   366         140           1,454       551
Meat                   144         144             545       545
Total Milk              1,736         660           3,804    1,445
Total Meat                412         412           1,292    1,292
Total Value of All
Groups                           1,072                     2,737
B. DPB's Processing Operations
8.05       DPB has been operating at a loss for the past three years, after an
early history of profitable operations. Although their overall financial
position is not serious, continued losses in the absence of a recovery program
could cause the situation to deteriorate to such an extent that it could
damage DPB's ability to perform its functions for the dairy industry,
including the milk- collection services to be carried out by DPB under the
Project. DPB's losses have mainly been caused by Government policies on
foreign exchange rationing for the importation of ingredients for
reconstituted milk, on pricing of both reconstituted and fresh milk and by
reduced milk plant efficiency caused by the reduction of throughput. At the
peak of imports of ingredients for reconstituted milk, in 1976, DPB processed
a total of 43.5 million liters of milk, 76% in reconstituted form (para.
1.20). DPB's Midland (Lusaka) plant processing capacity is about 40 million
liters per annum, in 1979 actual total throughput was 22.0 million liters of
which 11.0 million was fresh milk. DPB has reported a surge in fresh milk
production since the February 1981 farmgate price increase and is predicting
at least a 2 million liter rise in local production for this year. The July
1, 1981 price increase will be an added incentive for local production. Most
production increases will come from farmers who formerly sold their milk on
the black market but now that farmgaite prices exceed black market prices it is
more attractive to sell to DPB. There is also an indication that GRZ may ease
foreign exchange restrictions. DPB has received import licensing for K 3.1
million for the first half of 1981 for reconstituted milk ingredients.



- 39 -
Despite these positive development total plant throughput will not exceed 40%
of capacity and additional measures should be taken to restore DPB to a
profitable level.
8.06       During 1979/80, DPB made a loss of approximately K 0.10/liter on
fresh milk sold (para. 2.02) because of the reduced margin between the
producer price and resale price. The recent (July 1) increase in the resale
price from K 0.38/liter to K 0.50/liter has doubled DPB's margin for both
fresh and reconstituted milk. The new resale price schedule also includes
increased margins for smaller containers and milk by-products. The table
below compares producer and retail prices before and after July 1, 1981.
Prices - July ' 81           Previous Prices
Farmgate   Retail           Farmgate  Retail
(Kwacha)
Fresh Milk (liter)        0.38       0.50             0.32      0.38
Reconstituted (liter)       -        0.40               -       0.30
Chocolate Milk (liter)       -       0.30                -      0.22
Lacto (liter)               -        0.42               _       0.22
These price changes should correct some of DPB's major financial problems,
however, DPB's financial performance has also been affected by several
operational inefficiencies. With the steady reduction in plant throughput
there had not been a related reduction in work force due to the objections of
the factory workers union. DPB has recently reported that an agreement has
been worked out with the union which will permit a reduction in the work force
over a period of time. It was agreed that there would be no replacement of
staff leaving through normal attrition and retirement. To date under this
agreement the work force has been reduced from 1,030 to 800. DPB has also
taken steps to improve in-plant operating efficiency. With Swedish bilateral
assistance plant operations are being modernized and the UHT milk/Tetra-pak
processing lines are being replaced with locally produced glass bottles and
lower cost sachet containers. Tetra-pak machines which turn out the most
expensive milk container and have the further disadvantage of requiring
expensive imported packaging material, are being removed, seven from the
Midlands and five from the Kitwe plants. These machines had been leased and
removing them will eliminate the annual leasing charge along with a throughput
royalty. The plant's refrigeration facilities are going to be rehabilitated
and restored to efficient levels under a bilateral agreement with DANIDA who
are also providing for training of plant management and operations personnel.
DPB management is confident that the combination of realistic pricing,
improved labor efficiency, and plant modernization will restore the parastatal
to a profit-making level. It is apparent from these developments that GRZ is
implementing their announced policy of elimination of food/parastatal
subsidies and providing parastatals the opportunity to develop profitable
operations.
Mazabuka Milk Plant
8.07       With the assistnce of DANIDA, a 10,000 liter/day dairy plant will
be installed at Mazabuka with the capacity to pasteurize and pack in low cost
half liter plastic sachets. Once it becomes fully operative (installation is



- 40 -
planned for 1981), it would reduce collection and marketing costs of milk
produced and sold in the southern areas. At present DPB transports milk from
commercial dairy farmers in the Mazabuka/Monze area to Lusaka and then
transports about 6,000 liters daily of processed and packaged milk back to
Mazabuka for sales in that Region. There is a potential consumer demand for
at least 12,000 liters daily in the Monze/Mazabuka area which is not being met
at present. The proposed plant at Mazabuka will depend primarily on the
smallholder production expected from the Project. Transporting smallholder
production directly to the Mazabuka plant will eliminate the cooling center
originally proposed, where smallholder milk was to be consolidated, cooled,
and shipped onward by tanker to Lusaka for processing. Until smallholder
production develops, a portion of the large commercial farmer's production
will be diverted to Mazabuka to satisfy local demand for pasteurized milk.
The Netherlands Government has also agreed to provide DPB with a Production
Manager; a qualified candidate has been identified and is expected to take up
his post in mid-1981.
C. Government Cash Flow and Cost Recovery
8.08       The effects, in current price terms, of the Project on Government's
cash flow are given in Table T-7. Sources of funds would consist of IDA
Credit disbursements and loan repayments by CFC, ZADL and DPB. Uses of funds
would be for the loans to CFC, ZADL and DPB, technical services provided by
MAWD, public roads and water works, and payment of the IDA Service Charge.
8.09       The Project would not increase directly generated revenue to GRZ,
as there are no taxes or cesses levied on farm production, However, it is
likely that there would be a marked increase in spending by Project
beneficiaries on consumer goods, many of which are taxed. As a result it is
expected that revenues from indirect taxation would increase, although
quantification of this is not possible. Project beneficiaries would pay
prices which would reflect full costs of all credit, livestock, equipment,
seed and chemicals. Under present GRZ policy which subsidizes fertilizer
below import parity, cost recovery on fertilizer would be approximately 60%.
In view of GRZ's current financial constraints, it is expected that subsidy
levels would be gradually reduced and cost recovery rates on fertilizer raised
to approximately 80% by the end of 1983. The Project would involve the
development of services (most notably, livestock extension and veterinary
services) which would require long-term commitment by GRZ to provision of
staff and operating resources. Under the proposed financing plan for the
Project (paras. 4.22-4.23) GRZ would have to bear the recurrent costs of the
livestock extension and veterinary services from Project start onwards;
therefore, the problem of transferring recurrent cost financing from the
Credit account to the annual budget towards the end of the Project period
would not arise for this Project. The incremental annual recurrent costs of
livestock extension and veterinary services would be about K72,000 in PY 6 (in
1980 prices); this represents about 0.3% of the 1980 MAWD recurrent budget
(excluding subsidies).
IX. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
9.01       Although the Project's major objective is to develop a low-cost
milk production strategy on traditional farms in a pilot phase before a major
production project would be undertaken, an economic rate of return has,



-  41 -
nevertheless, been calculated; not so much as a criterion of the Project's
justification but as an indicator of its potential for this type of dairy
development. Ignoring the trial nature of a number of approaches recommended
for the Project, and its conservative estimate of implementation pace and of
benefits, costs of all components and only direct benefits have been
quantified in the economic analysis. Both costs and benefits have been
shadow-priced on the basis of a foreign exchange rate of KO.98 = US$1.00.
Economic Benefits
9.02       The major quantifiable benefits of the Project would be the
incremental production of milk and beef from smallholder farms (para. 6.05 -
6.07), and the supply of breeding heifers and bulls from Chisamba above the
immediate needs of the Project. Milk has been valued at the border price of
reconstituted milk, and beef at its import parity price (Table T-8). Breeding
stock has been treated as a non-traded good, and has been valued at its market
price.
9.03       In valuing milk at the price of reconstituted milk without adding a
premium for consumers' preference for fresh milk, benefits may be
underestimated. It is however, extremely difficult to quantify assumptions
about the Zambian milk consumers' willingness to pay a premium for fresh milk
over reconstituted milk since both products have always been scarce, and
availability more than differential prices dictated the choice (para. 1.21).
9.04       The major unquantifiable benefit of the Project would result from
its pilot role in increasing milk production. While the milk supply from
state and commercial farms has stagnated for many years (para. 1.06), and
rural as well as settlement milk production schemes have been unpromising, the
Project's choice of traditional smallholder as a target group and of a
low-cost development strategy may finally provide a sound basis for the
rational development of the dairy industry.
Economic Costs
9.05       All capital costs, net of identifiable taxes but including 10%
physical contingencies, and incremental recurrent project costs have been
included in the economic analysis of the Project.  Incremental farm labor has
been shadow-priced at 50% of the prevailing minimum agricultural wage rate to
reflect the general under-employment in the Project area even at the time of
peak agricultural labor requirement.
Results of the Economic Analysis
9.06       The internal economic rate of return (IERR) of the Project has been
calculated over a Project life of 20 years (Table T-9) giving a rate of 17%.
The IERR is equally sensitive to changes in cost and benefit assumptions. A
10% reduction of benefits or a 10% increase of costs would both reduce the
IERR to 14%; a combined increase of costs by 10% and reduction of benefits by
10% would reduce the IERR to 11%. If benefits were lagged by one year, the
IERR would be reduced to 13%. The switching values show that costs would have
to increase by about 37% or benefits fall by 32% in order for the net present
value to drop below zero at a discount rate of 12%. It is unlikely that costs
would increase sufficiently to make this an uneconomic project and steps have



- 42 -
been taken to minimize the probability that benefits would fall by as much as
30% (see Para. 9.07 below).
Risks
9.07       The major risk to the Project is that farmers would be unable to
realize the projected technical parameters. Although the estimates are
conservative, they require a certain level of farmers' readiness to change
traditional livestock management pattern, and of effectivenes of extension and
milk collection services. Once a poor technical performance makes modern milk
production a financially unattractive enterprise for farmers, it would also
jeopardize the Project's objective of piloting traditional smallholders into
increasing milk supplies. A careful selection of participating farmers, the
concentration of Project management on one area during a first phase, and the
relatively small scale of the Projec:t are measures designed to minimize the
risk of poor technical performance. There is also an area of doubt as to the
rate of acceptance and the number of appropriate smallholders who would
participate in the scheme. For the collection system planned under the
Project to become financially viable there would have to be a certain volume
of milk available for sale. The Dairy Development section of the MAWD has
conducted an intensive survey of potential producers in the proposed Project
area and has identified an adequate number of interested smallholders. There
has been follow-up meetings with the farmers to keep them informed of progress
and it was evident during field visits that a broad base of farmer interest
and desire does indeed exist. The two recent farmgate milk price increases
provide an attractive production incentive, as does the prospect of a year
round cash flow from milk sales.
X. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) not later than three years from the date of effectiveness and prior
to the implementation of Phase II, the Borrower and the Association
shall (a) jointly undertake a review to assess the progress achieved
in carrying out Phase I of the Project which shall inter alia
examine the following: (i) the number of smallholder who have
qualified and obtained credit for dairy development; (ii) the
pattern of milk production developing among project smallholders;
and (iii) an overall analysis of the condition of the milk industry
including production, pricing, processing, marketing, and consumer
demand, and (b) on the basis of the above mentioned review the
Borrower and the Association shall determine whether to proceed with
the implementation of Phase II (Para. 4.01).
(b)   MAWD/DOA and DVTCs assign respectively, not less than 12 AAs and 6
Vs to the dairy production areas during Project year one (Paras.
4.05 and 4.07);
(c)   GRZ would require the DOA and DVTCs to coordinate and integrate
their respective project-related activities (including staff
training) in the execution of the Project (Para. 4.10);



- 43 -
(d)  CFC shall at all times ensure that the spread between its borrowing
and lending interest rates will generate sufficient revenues to
cover its debts, operating costs, and provide a reserve for bad
debts and a reasonable profit (Para. 4.12);
(e)  a ranch manager with suitable qualifications and experience; and on
terms and conditions of employment agreeable to the Association be
employed to manage the Chisamba Ranch (Para. 4.14);
(f)  DPB would employ a milk transport manager whose qualifications and
experience shall be acceptable to the Association (Para. 4.18);
(g)  that the financing of Project costs would be as stated
(Paras.4.22-4.23);
(h)  that standard World Bank procurement procedures as stated in the SAR
would be followed (Para. 4.24);
(i)  that separate accounts relating to expenditures under the Project
would be kept by PMU, ZADL, DPB and CFC and that these accounts
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that
said audits be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each
financial year (Para. 4.27);
(j)  that MAWD would establish a PMU in the DOA, and would employ a
Financial Controller under terms and conditions of employment
agreeable to the Association (Para. 5.02);
(k)  that GRZ would prepare and submit to IDA, within six months of the
completion of disbursements, a Project Completion Report (Para.
5.03);
(1)  in order to maintain adequate milk production incentives to farmers
and a profitable margin on resale prices of milk to DPB, the
Borrower shall annually review and adjust milk prices taking into
account the cost of production, processing and distribution and
shall from time to time exchange views on its milk pricing policy
with the-Associaton (Para. 7.03).
10.02     It would be a condition of credit effectiveness:
(a)  that GRZ would have executed subsidiary loan agreements acceptable
to IDA with DPB, ZADL and CFC respectively stipulating the
conditions and terms for such loans (Para. 4.23);
(b)  that the funds required for animal husbandry extensions, veterinary
services, project management, road repairs, and farm water supply
would be deposited by GRZ in an imprest account in the Bank of
Zambia under arrangements satisfactory to the Association at the
beginning of each quarter, and that the initial amount has been
deposited (Para. 4.23);
(c) that a Project manager would be employed under terms and conditions
agreeable to the Association (Para. 5.02).



- 44 -
10.03     It would be a condition of disbursement against the funds for Phase
II that the Association has been satisfied with the results of the mid-term
review (Para. 4.01);
10.04     The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$7.5 million on standard terms to GRZ.



- 45 -
ZAMBIA                                     Chart C-1
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1982         1983         1984         1985         1986          1987
1_2-3 4 1_2-3-4 _-2-3 4 1_2-3 4 1_2  3 4 1 234
On-Farm Development
Buildings and Fences
Pasture Improvement
Equipment
Livestock Delivery
Shallow Well Construction
Animal Husbandry Extension
Staff Houses
Motorcycles
Equipment
Veterinary Services
Staff Houses
Mo tarcycles
Credit
Farm Credit
Staff Vehicles
Of fice Equipment
Heifer Farm Development
Civil Works
Pasture Improvement
Machinery and Equipment
Cattle Purchase
Technical Assistance
Milk Collection Service
Buildings
Equipment
Vehicles
Road Spot Repair
Project Management
Vehicles
Technical Assistance
June 7, 1981



- 46 -
ZAMBIA                         Chart C-2
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
______________.___-  Permanent
Secretary                            I
MAWD                   Project
Steering
Committee
.Director of 
Agriculture
Planning Unit
l         ~~~DA O         Budget and
t         ~~~CA HO        Evaluation
II                               I
District                   Project Management
Advisory       ------             Unit               ----------
Committee
sDitrict
-------------------  Administration
DAO/DVO
Agricultural                   Agriculturalr  Agricultural
Stations                       Stations [                    Stations
Ari     Agri.            17kgri.          Agri.              Agri.     Agri.
Camps    camps               camps         camps              camps     camps
T R A D) I T I O N A L           F A R M E R S



- 47 -
Table T-1
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
(Us$'000)
Bank Group            Quarterly            Cumulative
and Quarter          Disbursement         Disbursement
FY 82  Q3
Q4
FY 83  Ql                150                    150
Q2                200                   350
Q3                200                   550
Q4                200                   750
FY 84  Ql                250                  1,000
Q2                300                 1,300
Q3                300                 1,600
Q4                300                 1,900
FY 85  Ql                400                  2,300
Q2                400                 2,700
Q3                400                 3,100
Q4                400                 3,500
FY 86  Ql                300                  3,800
Q2                300                 4,100
Q3                300                 4,400
Q4                300                 4,700
FY 87  Q1                300                  5,000
Q2                300                 5,300
Q3                400                 5,700
Q4                400                 6,100
FY 88  Ql                400                  6,500
QQi               M88                 9:,88
Q4                300                 7,500
1/ This schedule assumes that the credit would become effective
in January 1982.
2/ Quarter of effectiveness.



- 48 -                                               Table T-2
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing of Project Cost
(K'OOO)
Project Year                         Total
1       2         3        4         5         6     Base Cost
On-Farm Development
Farm Contribution           15.2      41.3      86.5     99.5      90.0     67.5      400.0
Government Water
Supply Grant              27.5      35.7     35.7      30.2     22.0      16.5      167.6
Sub-Total              42.7      77.0    122.2    129.7    112.0       84.0      567.6
Animal Husbandry Extension
Capital Costs               88.5       4.5     40.7      11.6       -        -        145.3
Operating Costs             44.5      43.9     44.5      55.7      65.2     65.2      319.0
Sub-Total             133.0     48.4      85.2      67.3     65.2      65.2     464.3
Veterinary Services
Capital Costs               32.9      30.8      -        26.2       -        -         89.9
Operating Costs              7.6      11.5      12.2     24.7      24.7     25.2      105.9
Sub-Total              40.5     42.3      12.2      50.9     24.7      25.2     195.8
Credit
Farm Credit                 45.0    270.3    424.2    516.0    481.1    309.2   2,045.8
Service Capital Costs       10.4       3.5      -         3.0       -        -         16.9
Service Operating Costs    32.1       47.7     47.7      60.8      60.8     60.8      309.9
Sub-Total              87.5    321.5    471.9    579.8    541.9    370.0   2,372.6
Heifer Farm Development
Capital Costs              514.4    442.7       378.2     -         -        -      1,335.3
Operating Costs              -         -        -        64.0      64.0      -        128.0
Sub-Total             514.4    442.7    378.2       64.0     64.0       -     1,463.3
Milk Collection Service
Capital Costs                -        51.2       9.0    106.5      74.0    167.9      408.6
Operating Costs              4.0      42.0      46.3     80.6    101.7    133.4       408.0
Road Spot Repair             -        10.0      25.0     25.0      40.0     30.0      130.0
Sub-Total               4.0    103.2      80.3    212.1    215.7    331.3       946.6
Project Management
Capital Costs               38.0       -         -        -         -        -         38.0
Operating Costs            164.6    167.1    168.6    170.6    170.6    170.6   1,012.1
Sub-Total             202.6    167.1    168.6    170.6    170.6    170.6   1,050.1
Total Base Costs   1,024.7  1,202.2  1,318.6  1,274.4  1,194.1  1,046.3   7,060.3
May 27,1981



- 49 -
ZAMBIA
Table T-2a
Smallholder Dairy Development Project
Livestock Extension Services Costs
Total   Unit       1       2      3       4      5       6            Foreign
No. of  Cost    ----------- Years of Project -----------  Total  Exchange
Units     K      K'OOO  K'000  K'OOO  K'OOO  K'OOO  K'000  K'OOO         %
I. CAPITAL COSTS
1. Civil Works
Houses - New 1/                3    39,000   78.0       -    39.0      -       -      -    117.0       20
Houses - Repair 2/             8        560     -       -      1.7    2.8      -      -       4.5      10
2. Vehicles & Equipment
Motorcycles 3/                15      1,500   10.5    4.5       -     7.5      -      -      22.5      90
Bicycles 4/                    8        160     -       -       -     1.3      -      -       1.3      90
Total Capital Costs                        88.5    4.5   40.7   11.6       -       -    145.3      34
II.OPERATING COSTS
1. Salaries & Wages
DDOs 5/                       3       5,000   10.0   10.0   10.0   15.0   15.0   15.0    75.0           -
AAs 67                       14       2,500   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   37.5   37.5   175.0           -
2. Vehicle Operating Costs
Motorcycles 7/               15         600    4.2    6.0    6.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    43.2         55
Bicycles 8/                   8      24/PA      -       -      -      0.2    0.2    0.2       0.6      -
3. Staff Training
Initial 9/                   39      150/ea.  3.0    0.6       -      3.0     -       -       6.6      -
4. Building Maintenance  10/   3    1,170/ea.  2.3    2.3    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    18.6             20
Total Operating Costs                      44.5   43.9   44.5   55.7   65.2   65.2   319.0          6
Total Base Costs                          133.0   48.4   85.2   67.3   65.2   65.2   464.3         15
1/ Housing, type 313, for three district dairy officers.
2/ House repairs for permanent AAs in Kabwe Rural.
3/ Motorcycles for DDOs and for supplementary AAs without housing.
The cost icludes 25% for spare parts. Kabwe area Year 4 startup.
4/ Bicycles for permanent AAs in Kabwe Rural district, begin Year 4.
5/ The DDQs in eagh district woul4_be the level of an agricultural
supervisor w t  a aegree from SKUC.
6/ AM  would be dip1o2a holders fr   an oricultural College. A housing
allowance is included in the salary    supplementary AAS.
7/ Motorcycles: 5,000 km annually at K 0.12 per km.
8/ An allowance of K2 per months would be provided to bicycle users for maintenance.
S/ Training for a three month period at Palabana for 36 project MAs and three DDOs.
Cost K50 per month per person for board and transport.
10/Cost of upkeep at 3% of construction costs for three houses built for DDos.
May 29, 1981



- 50 -
ZAMBIA                                    Table T-2b
Smallholder Da*iry Development Project
Veterinary Service Costs
Total   Unit       1       2      3       4       5      6            Foreign
No. of  Cost    ----------- Years of Project -----------  Total  Exchange
Units     K      K'000  K'000  K'000  K'000  K'000  K'000  K'O00          %
I. CAPITAL COSTS
1. Civil Works
Houses 1/                      5    14,500   29.0   29.0       -    14.5       -      -      72.5      20
2. Vehicles & Equipment
Motorcycles 2/                 8      1,500    3.0      -       -     9.0      -      -      12.0      90
Refrigerators (Drugs) 3/       2        900     -       -      -      1.8      -      -       1.8      90
Veterinary Equipment           8        450    0.9    1.8      -      0.9      -      -       3.6      90
Total Capital Costs                        32.9   30.8      -    26.2      -       -      89.9     32
II.OPERATING COSTS
1. Salaries & Wages
VAs                            5       2,500   5.0    7.5    7.5   12.5   12.5   12.5    57.5          -
2. Vehicles
Motorcycle Operations 4/       8       1,200   2.4    2.4    2.4    9.6    9.6    9.6    36.0          55
3. Other Operating Costs
Expendables 5/                 9         100   0.2    0.6    0.6    0.9    0.9    0.9         4.1      90
Building Maintenance 6/                  -      -      1.0    1.7    1.7    2.2    1.7        8.3      20
Total Operating Costs                       7.6   11.5   12.2  .24.7   24.7   25.2   105.9          18
Total Base Costs                           40.5   42.3   12.2   50.9   14.7   24.7   195.8          25
1/ Housing, Type 302 for five Veterinary Assistants.
2/ Motorcycles will be provided for each veterinary station in
Kabwe Rural as well as the district veterinary officer.
Purchase price includes 25% for spare parts.
3/ Refrigerators will be provided for each of the veterinary stations
in Kabwe Rural from where project VAs operate.
4/ Motorcycles: 10,000 km/year at KO.12/km
5/ Expendables, syringes, needles, etc. KIOO per VA and VO per year.
6/ Cost of maintenance at 3% of construction costs.
June 1, 1981



- 51 -
ZAMBIA                                                  Table T- 2c
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Group A & B Farmer Credit Requirements
Years of Project                                        Post-Project Years
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4         Year 5        Year 6        Year 7       Years 8-12
Farmers       Farmers       Farmers       Farmers        Farmers       Farmers       Farmers         Farmers
No. Amount  No. Amount  No. Amount  No. Amount  No. Amount  No. Amount  No.  Amount   No.  Amount
K'OOO         Kt'OOO        K'OOO         K'OOO 1T,OOO                 K'OOO         K'OOO            000
Collection Areas
Route 3 - Mazabuka
Groups A Farmers I/               30   13.5    30   52.5    30   18.0         -      -       -     -       -      -      -      -        -     -
-     -      40   18.0    40   70.0    40   24.0         -     -       -      -      -      -        -     -
-     -       -     -      50   22.5    50   87.5    50   30.0         -      -      -      -        -      -
-            _              -      40   18.0    40   70.0    40   24.0         -     -
Total Group A Farmers                 13.5          70.5          110.5         129.5         100.0           24.0
Groups B Farmers 2/                 -     -      20    9.2    60   27.6    90   41.4    60   27.6          -      -      -
Total Groups A & B                    13.5          79.7          138.1         170.9         127.6           24.0
Route 4 - Monze 
Group A Farmers                    40   18.0    40   70.0    40.  24.0        -      -       -     -       -      -      -
-     -      50   22.5    50   87.5    50   30.0         -     -       -      -      -      -        -     -
-             -      60   27.0    50  105.0    50   36.0         -     -       -     -        -      -
Total Group A Farmers                 18.0          92.5          138.5         135.0          36.6
Group B Farmers                     -     -      40   18.4    80   36.8   110   50.6    80   36.8          -      -       -
Total Groups A & B                    18.0         110.9          175.3         185.6          72.8      -      -      -
Route 5 - Monze
Group A Farmers                    30   13.5    30   52.5    30   18.0        -      -       -     -       -      -      -
-     -      40   18.0    40   70.0    40   24.0         -     -       -      -      -      -        -     -
-     -       -     -      20    9.0    20   35.0    20   12.0         -      -      -
Total Group A Farmers                 13.5          70.5          97.0           59.0          12.0
Group B Farmers                     -     -      20    9.2    30   13.8    60   27.6    60   27.6          -
Total Groups A & B                    13.5          79.7          110.8          86.6          39.6
Route 1 - Kabwe
Group A Farmers                     -     -       -     -       -      -     40   18.0    40   70.0    40   24.0         -
-  -   -      -       -     -       -     -      50   22.5    50   87.5    50   30.0          -      -
-     -       -      -      -      -      -      -       -    -       60   27.0    60  105.0        60   36.0
Total Group A Farmers                  _              -              -           18.0          92.5         138.5          135.0           36.0
Group B Farmers                           -       -      -      -      -     60   27.6   110   50.6   110   50.6
Total Groups A & B                      -             -              -           45.6         143.1          189.1         135.0           36.0
Route 2 - Kabwe
Groups A Farmers                    -     -       -      -      -      -      30   13.5    30   52.5    30   18.0         -     -        -      -
-     -       -     -       -      -      -      -      30   13.5    30   52.5    30   18.0          -     -
Total Group A Farmers                   -             -             _            13.5          66.0          70.5           18.0
Group B Farmers                     -     -       -      -      -      -     30   13.8    50   32.0    40   25.6         -      -        -
Total Groups A & B                      -             -              -           27.3          98.0          96.1           36.0
Total Credit Requirement by Year        45.0          270.3         424.2         516.0         481.1          309.2         171.0            36.0
Overall Requirement over
Project Period                                                                                            2,045.8
1/ Group A Farmers will require credit for three successive years:
Year 1 - K 450; Year 2 - K 1,750; Year 3 - K 600.
2/  Group B farmers will require credit for the first year only for K 460.
June 5, 1981



- 52 -
ZAMBIA                                                 Table T-2d
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit Service Costs
Foreign
Total No. Unit Cost                             Project Years                                   Total    Exchange
of Units       K           1           2           3           4           5           6          K          %
A. Capital Costs
Pick-up                    1          7,400 1/   7,400          _     -                 - _         _                    7,400       90
Motorcycles                4          1,500 t/   1,500        1,500         -         3,000                    _         6,000       90
Office Equipment 2/        -            -        1,500       2,000          -           -          -           -         3,500       60
Total Capital Costs                           10,400       3,500         -         3,000         -           -        16,900       84
B. Operating Costs
Sta
Credit Controller        1         6,900       6,900       6,900       6,900       6,900       6,900       6,900      41,400       -
Field Officers           3         4,000       4,000       8,000       8,000      12,000      12,000      12,000      56,000       -
Clerical Staff          3          1,600       1,600       4,800       4,800       4,800       4,800       4,800      25,600       -
Driver                   1         1,220       1,220       1,220       1,220       1,220       1,220       1,220       7,320       -
Housing Allowance        5            - 3/     1,248       1,776       1,776       1,776       1,776       1,776      10,128       -
Subsistence Allowance  5             - /       1,416       1,728       1,728       2,040       2,040       2,040      10,992       -
House Rental             3         3,00        3,000      6,000       6,000       9,000       9,000       9,000      42,000       -
Vehicles
Pick-up                 1          5,200 5/   5,200        5,200       5,200       5,200       5,200       5,200      31,200       55
Motorcycles              4            960 8/      960      1,920       1,920       3,840       3,840       3,840      16,320       55
Office Rental              2         3,600          -        3,600       3,600       7,200       7,200       7,200      28,800       -
Office Expenses 7/         -            -           600         600         600         900         900         900      4,500       50
Management Overheads 8/  _              -         6,000       6,000       6,000       6,000       6,000      6,000      36,000       -
Total Operating Costs                         32,144      47,744      47,744      60,876      60,876      60,876    310,260         9
Total Base Costs                              48,844      51,544      47,744      64,478      60,876      60,876    327,160        13
I/ Includes 25% of purchase price for spare parts.
T/ A typewriter and calculator for each office, and office furniture for Mazabuka.
3/ K 70 per month for the Credit Controller, K 22 for clerical staff, and K 12 for the driver.
4/  Combined subsistence and meAl allowance.  K 18 per night for Credit Controller
K 13 for Field Officer, and K 10 for Driver.
5/ 20,000 km/year at K 0.26.
6/ Kilometer allowance K 0.12 for 8,000 km/year.
7/ Includes miscellaneous.
8/ Contribution to CFC overheads.
July 27, 1981



- 53 -
ZAISBA                                   Table T-2e
Sal1holder Dairy Developenct Project
Chisamba Heifer Breeding Farm Costs
Total   Unit        1      2       3       4       5      6             Foreign
No. of  Cont    ---------- Years of Project ----------  Total  Exchange
Units     i      1'000  K'000  X'000  X'000  X'000  K'000  10'00 
I. CAPITAL COSTS
1. Civil Works
House - VA                      1    11,000   11.0       -       -       -       -       -     11.0      20
Houses - Laborers              10      2,800   14.0   14.0       -       -       -       -     28.0      20
Workshop                        1      2,800    2.8      -       -       -       -      -       2.8      20
Road Improvesent 1/             5ke   6,000   15,0   15.0        -       -       -       -     30.0      30
Borehole & Reservoir 2/         1    11,000   11.0       -       -       -       -      -      11.0      25
Clean Boraholes 3/              3     1,500    3.0    1.5        -       -       -       -      4.5      -
Repair Reservoirs 4/            5     3,000    6.0    9.0        -       -      -       -      15.0      20
Pu=ps and Piping 57             4     6,000   12.0   12.0        -       -       -       -     24.0      90
Spare Pomps 6/                  2     1,000    2.0       -       -       -       -      -       2.0      60
Windmills 7/                    2      5,000    5.0    5.0       -       -       -       -     10.0      90
Watering Througho 8/           10        400    2.0    2.0       -       -       -       -      4.0      -
Waterhole Construction 9/   10           800    4.0    4.0       -       -       -       -      8.0      -
Fence Construction 1O/         90km      660   20.0   20.0   20.0        -       -      -      60.0      65
Handling Unit 11/              1     15,000    -       15.0      -       -       -       -     15.0      20
Repair Handling Unit 11/    2         5,000    5.0    5.0        -       -       -      -      10.0      -
Dipping Tank 11/               1      6,000       -     6.0      -       -       -      -       6.0      20
Land Clearing 12/         3,500 ha   10/ho   10.0   10.0   15.0          -       -      -      35.0      -
Posture Inprovement 13/   250 ha  360/ha   18.0   36.0   36.0            -       -      -      90.0      50
2.
60-70 HP Trantor               1     15,000   15.0       -       -       -       -      -      15.0      90
Tractor Trailer                1      5,500    5.5       -       -       -       -      -       5.5      90
9-Too Track                    1     35,000   35.0       -       -       -       -      -      35.0      90
4-Wheel Drive Pickup           1     15,000   15.0       -       -       -       -      -      15.0      90
Motorbikes                     2       1,000    2.0      -       -       -       -      -       2.0      90
Plow & Harrow                  I ea.  6,500    6.5       -       -       -       -      -       6.5      90
Spare Parts 141                -         -     10.4      -       -       -       -      -      10.4      90
3. Cattln Purchase
Hoifero (1,000) 15/           head       400  120.0  140.0  140.0        -       -      -    400.0       90
Boils (90) 15/                head       800   48.o   12.0   12.0        -      _       -      72.0      9O
Toure  Capitol Costs                       398.2  306.5   223.0    -         -       -    927.7       69
II.Incre=ental Operating Costs
1. Salaries & Wages 16/
Ranch Manager                  1     60,000    60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0    -    300.0            67
Veterinary Assistant           1      4,000       4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    -         20.0       -
2. Vehicle Operating Costa 17/
hP Tractor-8O Tpa       per hr.   6.0       4.8    4.8    4.8    -         -       -      14.4      55
1-Truck (9 ton)-10,000 k=  per kn    0.40    4.0    4.0    4.0    -              -      -      12.0      55
1-460 Pick op 20,000 kn    per km    0.35         7.0    7.0    7.0    -        -       -      21.0      55
2-Motorbikes 10,000 kn        per km    0.12    2.4    2.4    2.4    -          -       -       7.2      55
3. Other Operating Costa
Posture PertiIiat.            per ha   40.0    2.0    6.0   10.0         -       -      -    18.0        80
Aninal Heaith 18/            per AU   10.0    1.0    5.0   13.0          -       -      -    19.0        80
Cattlefeed (cons) 19/         per AU    9.0    24.0  32.0   36.0         -       -      -    92.0        50
Boll Feed 19/                 per AU   20.0    1.0    1.0    2.0         -       -      -      4.0       50
Maintetance(bhilding
fence, water) 20/            -        -       -       4.0    6.0       -      -       -      10.0      20
ZADL Overhead 217             p...    6,000    6.0    6.0    6.0         -       -       -     18.0
Total Operating Costs                      116.2  136.2  155.2    64.0   64.0    -    535.6           58
Total Base Costs                           514,4  442.7  378.2    64.0   64.0            1,463.3      65
1/  Five kn of ranch access road.
2/  Ranch would require one new borehole with 35,000 liter reservoir.
3/  Three existing bhreholes now producing poorly Would be pomped out and cleaned
whIch shauld restore original flow.
4/  Existing reservoirn requiore cleaini.g and repair.
5/ Replaceseat of exinting poops and reticulation systems and providing fur one
additional pu=ping system. Each requires 200 m of polythene pipe and 3,000 a
of 38 an pip. at X 2.75 and K 1.90 per meter respectivaly.
6/  Repair of two of the pumps to be repIced by new ones, these would be used as
spare for energencios.
7/  Windmill installations on two existing boreholes.
8/  Troughs to be built in new paddocks and to he added to existing paddocks.
9/  Use of the two rivers that flon  through the ranch by diverting flow into adjoiing paddocks.
1O/ Repair of existing fence and fence for additional paddocks and handling units.
11/ Construct an additinnal handling unit to acconodate the increase in cattle, repair
existing units and add a dip tank.
12/ Clearance of eacessive tree cover no improve natural gross areas.
13/ Establish 250 ha of star grass over a three year period at cost of K 360 ha; for
fertilizar t 36/ha; plant naterial X 10/ha; sOd bosh clearing, land preparation and
planting K 314/ha.
14/ Spare parts for all new vehicles e 20% of original coats.
15/ Improved open heifers and bulls to upgrade qoality of crossbreeds, imported from S.A. and Zimbabwe.
16/ Incremental staff to be added to existing ranch staff.
17/ Vehicles to be added to extsting ranch vehicles and tractors.
11/ Animal bealth progra, in place, Project financing for increased animal units.
19/ Feeding practices to be introduced with transfer of farn to heifer breeding.
'M/ Calculated at 3%  f installation costs.
T1/ For accounting and other head offic- services.
July 27, 1981



ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk Collection Service
Investment Costs
Foreign
Total No. Unit Cost                                Project Years                                 Total    Exchange
Item                         of Units       K           1           2           3           4           5           6           K          %
A.  Milk Collecting Depots
Building 1/                        25         5,000        -            -           -        30,000      30,000      65,000    125,000        30
Equipment                          -          1,520                           -               9,120       9,120      19,760      38,000       90
B.  Cooling Centers 2/                     2
Building 1/                        -         12,000        -            -           -           -        12,000      12,000      24,000       60
Equipment                          -         18,420        -            -           -           -        18,420      18,420      36,840       90
C.  Milk Collecting Equipment
Milk Cans                         700            45        -          4,500       9,000       9,000       4,500       4,500      31,500       90
Pails, Strainers Sets 3/           10           130        -          1,040         -           260         -           -         1,300       90
Milk Testing Sets 3/  -            10           150        -            750         -           750         -           -         1,500       90
Office Equipment Sets 3/           10            80        -            400         -           400         -           -           800       60
D. Vehicles
1 ton Pick up (manager)             1         7,400 4/    -           7,400         -           -           -           -         7,400       90
1 ton Pick up (milk collection)   2           8,700 f/     -         17,400         -                                   -        17,400       90
3 ton Truck                         2        19,700  /    -          19,700         -                                19,700      39,400       90
5 ton Truck                         3        28,500        -                        _        57,000         _        28,500 5/  85,500        90
Total Base Capital Costs                                          -        51,190        9,000    106,530      74,040    167,880    408,640          67
1/ Including costs of water and electricity installation.
2/  An alternative possibility would be to install 5 milk cooling depots.
3/ Needed for the mobile collecting system; sets needed for milk depots are part of depot equipment price.
4/ Includes 25% of purchase price for spare parts.
5/ An alternative possibility would be to mount an available milk tank on a 9 ton truck.
June 7, 1981



ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk Collecting Service
Operating Costs
Foreign
Total No. Unit Cost                                Project Years                                 Total    Exchange
Item                  of Units        K           1           2           3           4           5           6           K            x
Salaries and Allowances
Milk Transport Manager               1         10,000      4,000       10,000      10,000      10,000      10,000    10,000        54,000        -
Drivers                              7          1,400        -          4,200       4,200       7,000       7,000      9,800       32,200        -
Milk Attendants                     28          1,200        -          4,800       4,800      14,000      21,600    33,600        79,200         -
Cooling Center Supervisors          2          2,500         -            -           -           -         2,500      5,000        7,500        -
Cooling Center Assistants            2          1,200        -            -           -           -         1,200      2,400        3,600        -
Laboratory Technician                1          2,000        -          1,000       1,000       2,000       2,000      2,000        8,000        -
Clerical Assistant                   2          1,200        -          1,000       1,200       2,000       2,400      2,400        9,000        -
Vehicles                               8     K170/1,000 1/   -           19,700      23,000      37,300      40,800    44,200       165,000         55
Others
Materials (cleaning, testing)        -            -          -            300         300       1,500       3,000      6,200       11,300         50
Electricity                          -            -          -            -           -           -         1,600      3,200        4,800        50
Maintenance                          -                       -            -           -         1,200       3,400      6,000       10,600         50
Road Maintenance 2/                  -            -          -        10,000       25,000      25,000      40,000    30,000       130,000        40
Data Processing                      -            -          -            400         600       2,400       3,000      4,000        8,600         20
Miscellaneous                        -            -          -            400         600       1,800       2,200      3,600       10,400         50
Total Base Operating Costs                             4,000       52,000      71,300    105,600    141,700   163,400          538,000        26
1/  Repair and maintenance would be carried out in DPB's workshop,
the costs estimated for vehicle operation are, therefore, lower
than the kilometer allowance provided for the other project services.
2/ Fund for spot repairs.
June 7, 1981



ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Management Unit Costs
Foreign
Total No. Unit Cost                               Project Years                                Total    Exchange
of Units      K           1           2           3           4           5          6           K       _
A. Capital Costs
FWD Pick-up                1        19,500 1/   19,500         -           -          -           -           -        19,500         90
Station Wagon              1        13,000 1/   13,000         -          -           -           -           -        13,000         90
Office Equipment           -                      5,500        -          -           -           -           -         5,500         60
Total Capital Costs                            38,000        -          -           -           -           -        38,000         86
B. Operating Costs
Staff
Project Manager          1        66,000 2/   66,000    66,000       66.000      66,000      663000      66,000    396,000          67
Financial Controller    1         52,000 2/   52,000    52,000       52,000      52,000      52,000      52,000    312,000          67
Clerical Staff           4         2,800       11,200    11,200      11,200      11,200      11,200      11,200     67,200           -
Evaluation Officer       1         6,900        6,900      6,900      6,900       6,900       6,900       6,900      41,400          -
Driver                   2         1,220        2,440      2,440      2,440       2,440       2,440       2,440      14,640          -
Housing Allowance        7           -   3/    2,184       2,184      2,184       2,184       2,184       2,184      13,104          -
Subsistence Allowance   4            -   4/    3,900      3,900       3,900       3,900       3,900       3,900     23,400           -
Vehicles
FWD Pick-up              1         7,000 5/    7,000       7,000      7,000       7,000       7,000       7,000      42,000         55
Station Wagon            1         3,450 6/    3,450      3,450       3,450       3,450       3,450       3,450     20,700          55
Office Rental              1         3,600        3,600      3,600      3,600       3,600       3,600       3,600      21,600          -
Office Expenses            -           -   7/    6,000       8,500     10,000      12,000      12,000      12,000      60,500         50
Total Operating Costs                        164,674   167,174    168,674    170,674    170,674    170,674  1,012,544               53
Total Base Costs                             202,674   167,174    168,674    170,674    170,674    170,674  1,050,544               54
1/ Includes 25% of purchase price for spare parts.
2/  Includes return fares, home leave travel, local travel, and house rental.
3/  K 70 per month for the Evaluation Officer, K 22 for clerical staff, and K 12 for a Driver.
4/  Combined subsistence and meal allowance. K 18 per night for the Evaluation Officer,                                                                     t
K 13 for clerical staff, and K 10 for a Driver.
5/ 20,000 km/year at K 0.35.
6/ 15,000 km/year at K 0.23.
7/ Includes miscellaneous stationery, research/evaluation allowances, and computer service charges.
June 7, 1981



ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
On-Farm Investment (Type A Farm Model)
No. of
Items                 Unit       Units     Unit Cost   Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Total           F.E. %
---------------------------------------------K-----------------------------_-
Farm Investments
Fences 1/                  km         1            432       432                   -          --       432         86
Buildings 2/             unit         1            115       115        --         --         --       115         --
Pasture Improvement 3/  unit          1            285        55         97        88         44       285         94
Family Labor 4/        manday       170              1       122        43          4          1       170         --
Equipment
Bucket pump              unit         1             34        -          34        -          --        34         90
Miscellaneous            unit         1             34        --         34        --         --        34         50
Livestock
Heifers                  head         5            450        --     1,350        900         -      2,250         --
Bulls                    head         1            450        --       450         --         --       450         --
Total Base Costs                                        724     2,008        992         45    3,770          18
1/ Fences includes subdivision into paddocks.
2/ Buildings include milking shed, calf shed and crush pen.
3/ Includes pasture planting for 2 ha of cynodon SP. and 0.06 ha of Leucaena and maintenance for 2 years.
4/ Family labor costed at K 1 per work day includes: 44 work days per km for fencing; 10 work days for buildings;
18 work days for water supply; 98 work days for pasture improvement.                                                            m
May 28, 1981                                                                                                                       0



ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Costs (Type A Farm Model)
Without
Project                                       Project Years
Items              Situation     1         2        3         4        5         6        7         8      9-20
- ________________---------------------  K  -------------        --------- -   ----
Maintenance of Equipment        -          -        50        50       50        50       50        50       50       50
Maintenance of Pastures         -          -        -         -        45        88       88        88        88      88
Stock Feed                      -          -       160      240       240      268       304       304      360      360
Animal Health                   10         58      164       230      250       270      290       290      335      335
Sundry                          10         ii       17        22       22        22       22        22       28       28
Replacement 1/                             -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -
Total Base Costs            20         69      391       542      607       698      754       754      861      861
Incremental Family Labor
Labor (man/day) for:
Establish & Maintenance of
Equipment and Fences          -          15        9         9        9         9        9         9         9       9
Establish & Maintenance of
Pasture                       -          10       10         4        4         4        4         4        4        4
Animal Husbandry                -          38       90       110      130       135      140       140      140      140
Total Labor Days                      63       109      123       143      148       153       153      153      153
1/ The bucket pump has to be replaced in the 12th year.
June 7, 1981



-9                                                 Table T-3c
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow Projection of Type A Farm
Without                                   Years of Project
Project
Items                      Situation      1       2        3        4       5        6        7        8       9       10      11-20
----------------------------------  K  -----------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow
Gross Value of Production
Milk                               118        118      802   1,222   1,102   1,202   1,382   1,522   1,652   1,632   1,632   1,632
Meat                               338        669      675   1,073   1,047   1,055   1,215   1,254   1,694   1,806   1,806   1,806
Total Value of Gross             456        787   1,477   2,295   2,149   2,257   2,597   2,776   3,346   3,438   3,438   3,438
Long Term Loan                         -        450   1,750       600     -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -
Farmer's Contribution                 -         207      240      383      40      -        -       -        -        -        -       -
Total Cash Inflow                456      1,444   3,467   3,278   2 18 9             2,257   2,776   3,346   3,438   3,438   3,438
Cash Outflow
Investment Costs                      -         724   2,009       992      45      -        -       -        -        -        -       -
Operating Costs                        20        69      391      542     607      698      754      754     861      861      861     861
Total Cash Outflow                20        793   2,400   1,534       652      698      754     754      861      861     861      861
Net Value before Debt Service        436        651   1,067   1,744   1,537          1,559   1,843   2022   2,485   2577   2X577
Debt Service
Loan Amortization            1/        -        -        -        350     200      200      450      650     950      -        -       -
Interest on Long Term Loan -          -          54      264      336     294      270      246     192      114      114     -        -
Total Debt Service                -          54      264     686      494      470     696      842   1,064       114     -        -
Cash Flow after Debt Service         436        597      803   1,058   1,043   1,089   1,147   1180   1,421   2,463   2,577   2,577
Incremental Cash Flow after
Debt Service                        -         161      367      622     607      653      711      744     985   2,027   2,141   2,141
Incremental Family Labor
(man/day)                           -          63      109     123      143      148     153      153      153      153     153      153
Incremental Benefit per
Incremental Working Day
(K per man/day)                     -        2.56    3.36    5.05    4.24    4.41    4.65    4.86    6.43   13.24   14.00   14.00
1/ Interest @ 12%.
August 19, 1981



ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
On-Farm Investment (Type B Farm Model)
No. of
Items                Unit       Units      Unit Cost   Year 1    Year 2    Year 3         Total        F.E. %
----------------------------------K-------------------------------------
Farm Investments
Fences                     km         0.17        386        66        --         --            66         86
Buildings 1/             unit         1            20        20        --         --            20         --
Family labor 2/        manday        12              1       12                   --            12         --
Equipment
Bucket pump               set         1            30        30                   --            30         90
Livestock
Bulls                    head         1           450       450                   --           450         -
Total Base Costs                                       578        --         --           578         15
1/ Buildings include a small calf shelter and a crush pen.                                                               H
2/ Family labor costed at Kl per work day includes 7 work days for fencing and 5 work days for buildings.
June 3, 1981



SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Costs (Type B Farm Model)
(K)
Without
Project                                        Project Years
Items                 Situation    1       2       3      4       5      6       7      8       9     10      11    12-20
Maintenance of Equipment              -        -        7       7      7       7      7      7       7       7      7       7      7
Stock Feed                            -        -       29     29      29     29      29     29      29     29      29     29      29
Animal Health @ K3.2/LU               10       10      86     89      90     91      93     93      93      93     93      93     93
Sundry                                10       10      17     20      21     21      26     26      26     26      26      26     26
Replacementl/                         -        -       -      -       -      -              -       -      - .                    -
Total Base Costs                 20       20    139    145    147    148    155    155    155    155    155    189    155
Incremental Family Labor
(man/day) for:
-Maintenance of Equipment           -        -        5      5       5      5       5      5       5       5      5       5      5
- Animal Husbandry                  -        40      56     60      65     65      65     65      65     65      65      65     65
Total Labor Days                          40      60     65      70     70      70     70      70     70      70     70      70
-                                                       F3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
1/ The bucket pump has to be replaced in the year 11.
July 27, 1981



- 62 -
Table T-3f
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Value of Incremental Production - Type B Farm (25-30 head)
(K)
Year
1       2        3        4       5        6        7        8       9        10      11
1. Without Project
Gross Value of Production
Milk                                     182      182     182      182      182     182      182      182      182     182      182
Meat                                     457      595     652      652      652     652      652      652      652      652     652
Total Gross Value                      639     777      834      834     834      834      834      834     834      834      834
Production Costs 2/                         20       20       20      20       20       20      20       20       20       20      20
Net Return                                 619      757     814      814      814      814     814      814      814      814     814
2. With Project
Gross Value of Production
Milk                                     182      182     308      430      456     600      665      703      722      752     752
Meat                                     457      595     652      711      867     998   1,021   1,021   1,021   1,021   1,021
Total Gross Sales                      639     777      960   1,141   1,323   1,598   1,686   1,724   1,743   1,773   1,773
Operating Costs 2/                          20      139     145      147      148      155     155      155      155      155     155
Interest on Loan -/                         -        62      60       53       38       20     -        -        -       -        -
Total Production Costs                  20     201      205      200      186     175      155      155      155     155      155
Net Return                                 619      576     755      941   1,137   1,423   1,531   1,569   1,588   1,618   1,618
3. Incremental Net Return
With Project                              -      (181)    (59)    127       323     609      717      755      774     804      804
Incremental  Value Milk                     -        -      126      248      274     418      483      521      540     570      570
Incremental Value Meat                      -        -       -        59      215     346      369      369      369     369      369
4. Incremental Value of Gross Sales            -        -       126     307      489      764     852      890      909      939     939
5. Incremental Family Labor -
Man/days                                  -        40      60       65       70       70      70       70       70       70      70
Increased Benefit for Increase
Labor (K per man/day)                     -        -       -      1.95    4.61    8.70   10.24   10.78   11.05   11.48   11.48
1/  Milk sales to local markets and neighbors at K .38/kilo.
2/ From Table T-3e.
3/ Incremental sales (from improved cows) to DPB at K .38/kilo.
4/ Long-term loan for K 460 for crossbred bull and stirrup pump. Interest at 12%
over 6 years with first year's interest capitalized.
5/  From Table T-3e.
August 19, 1981



4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DRVEI,OPRINT PROJECT
OS.-r  of P-oletRd Prod-tEfon - All Proooo...d Milk Routes
(Toss of Milk)
Year 1            Year 2            Y-a  3             Ts-  4            Year 5            Tou  6             Te-r 7            Ts-  8             Y-or 9            Ya 1_0              Y    11            Ya  12Yer1
10/82-9/83        10183-9/84        10/84-9185         170/85-9/86       10/86-9/87        10/87-9/88          10/88-9/89       10/89-9/90         10/90-9/91         10/91-9/92          10/92-9/93          10/93-9/94         10y/!9!4-91/93
Pond.             Prod.             Prod.              ho.d.             food.             Fo-d.               Prod.            Pond.             Prod.               P-od.               Pr-d.               Prod.               P-od.
Parn-r  (To..)  Fann-   (T...)  Pase   (Tn)  Pase.               (on)Fur (T(Ton.)Pon-   FTns                    .are   (T-n)  PFrse  (T...)  rumor  _(Tons)    Pasr(-               n) Fms- -Ton)             FPrse   (To)   Parser.  (T-n
ROUTE 3 -MAZABRKA
G-op A                                -         -        30       54        70    153       120      267       160      377      160      417        160      444      160      501     160      549        160      380       160       592       160       592       160      592
G-np A  -T diti ... I Hrd             -                  -        -         -       -         -         0       -        19       -        34         -        45       -       45       -        45         -        45         -        45         -        45        -        45
G-op 0   C                            -                           -         20    7j.        80    ...33.   170   A...8...   230         1.41       230       1.0(s    230  7.2A.    230    .282            230      306.      2,30      326       2.30     312&.      210      32h..
S.b-Tsta1                                                      54..j..          160               3 ..08.           479..             .594...           6.&f3...          _.2aa_.             -3                .OL                 -83..-I2 
R100TR 4 - IMDNZE
Gr-p A                                -         -        40       72        90    190       150      335       150      281      150      388        100      442      150    498       150      537        150      555       150       555       110       553       150      555
-op A.-  e-diti ... I Hrd              -                 -        -           -      -        -        10       -        10       -        32        -         42               42       -         42        -        42         -        42         -        42        -        42
G-op B& C                             -         -                 -         40      13j.    120    5..2i..   230        117....   310    .2800       310    .267.    310    -222.       310    _..380..    310       411        310      430       310      -46-5      310      465
Sub-Tot.1                                                      72               711               397              5_16                620                751               867               959              1,000               1.035               1.062               1.062
G-op A                                -         -        30       54        70    153         90)    213        90      224       90      240         90      274       90    307        90      327         90    333           90      333        90       333        90      333
Grop A  T-uditiCo..lIlHd               -                 -        -          -        -       -         6       -        11       -        19         -        25       -       25        -        25        -        25         -        25         -        25        -         25
Grop B &C                             -                           -         20        7       50       23      110     __4       180      104        100      141      100    172       180       205       180    222          100      237       180       255       180       2355
Sob-Total1                                                     54               160               242               289                363                440               504               557               388                  595                 613                 615
Grop A                                -         -                               -             40       72       90      198      150      353        150      381      150    388       150      442        150    498          150      537       150       553       130      155
Gr-p A   T-aditi-1nalOrd               -                                                      -        -        -        -        -        10         -        18       -        32       -        42        -       42          -        42         -        42         -        42
Graps & C                              -                                                      60       20      170       75      290      151        280      217      280    272       280       331       280    359          280     3287       280       409       280      420
Sob-Total.1                                                                                        92               273                496                610               692               815                900                 966               1,000               1,017
Grasp A                                -        -        -                           -        30       54',     60      135       60      150         60      147       60    168        60       192        60    213           60      222         60      222        60       222
Groo p A - Traditia...l Herd           -                                     .       -        -         2'      -         7       -        13         -        17        -       17       -        17        -       17          -        17         -        17         -        17
Grap B & C                             -                                                      30       10       00       37      120       60j       120       95      120     120      120       143       120    153          120      167        120      176       120       180
Sob-Tot.1                                   -                  -                 -                 66              1_79                231                259               305               353                385                 406                 415                 419
TOTALS - All Roots.                   -                 100      180       310    531       770    .105   1310   1.736   1,730   2,_304           1,730   2,749   1, 730  3,156        ,730   3,359    1,730  3.804          1,730   3961        1730   4,078        1,730   &J7
Sub-Tbt.1 Group A                  -                100      180        230    504       430      967      538   1  _7        610   168          610   1,835        610  2,023       610   2.218        610  2,350          610   2.398         610   2 410         610    a 397
Sob-Total Grop B &                 -                 - -                 80      27      940      138      760W      6     1,120 0Y            1,12 l      T      :30135 ,V                 1,34      1  2    T5          1,120    I.567     TT20 T~               ,,      ~7
M-hn 5, 1981



ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Annual Incremental Meat Production
Yr.1    Yr.2    Yr.3    Yr.4    Yr.5    Yr.6    Yr.7    Yr.8    Yr.9    Yr.10   Yr.ll    Yr.12    Yr.13
Route 3 - MAZABUKA
Type A Herds (tons meat
liveweight)     -        -       9       23      94      109     122      137     174      201     220       225      225
Type B Herds ( " " ")          -        -      _        8       34      76      109     115      115     115      115       115      115
Route 4 - MONZE
Type A Herds (" " ")           -        -      12       30      94     110      111     150      177     204      210       210      210      4
Type B Herds (" " ")           -        -      -        16      52     104      150     160      160     160      160       160      160
Route 5 - MONZE
Type A Herds ( " ")            -        -       9      24       59      61       75      93      113     124      126       126      126
Type B Herds(""")              -       -       -        8       22      49       83      90       90      90       90        90       90
Route 1 - KABWE
Type A Herds (" " ")           -       -       -       -        12      31       94     110      111     150      177       204      210
Type B Herds (i " ")           -        -      -       -        24      74      113     120      120     120      120       120      120
Route 2 - KABWE
Type A Herds(""")              -       -       -       -         9      21       41      46       54      68       81        84       84   b
Type B Herds (""")             -       -       -       -        12      35       56      60       60      60       60        60       60   a
Total All Meat Production                                                                                                                   d
(Tons meat liveweight)       -       -       30     109     412      670     954   1,081   1,174   1,292   1,359    1,394    1,400
April 14, 1981



-*5-                                                                                     3a61*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b  5-38
Qh6-f. 8.18fr 0o-ein  8
086061.-        Ye,r 8           RK-               kMI              0.e  *              - h 5          YAkL.&            3*-  7            T-   a           74.-  9           0.- 10          I... 2'1r17-0
0,  lard                                   1.350           1.387             1.416             0,680            1.940             2.148            2.133               00*4           1.807             I 083              7836           8.065                 0,063
0017.oaOr                         2~~      ~     ~~~~         ~~~30  403  2764+300  2508   350    1796.330          2`4+.108          71+.2008            +200            +0200             +0o            50   .0305030                             +050
Oroal                           1.580~~~~~~~~Io  1.800            2.030             0.230            0,469             2,432            2.604             024"             2,037             20.03           0,025             0.00,                 2,005
OntO.                             ~~~              ~~~              ~~~             ~      ~~45  54  62  07  7           74                72                09               62                60              00                60                    60
1,12,                            ~~~~            ~~~~              ~~~~140  070  308  023              247              243               28.               350              I.,              1'001                     190      130
Tot.1                         2~~~~~~~~~1307  1.476            1480              1.940            2140"             2,133             2.244            1, Th             1.063            1.763            1,165            106                      '67
0*1f-r  2-3Yr  Old
+0 o.ro                          ~~~~             ~~~~ ~~~330  34   208              205               614               710              822               700              '70               724             034               6156~
0*e86.                          10        F~~~~                    ~        ~       ~       ~       ~~ ~              ~~~ 12  I  68  220                  24               03                22        ~                        00
CoIls                         -                2~       ~       ~~~              ~~~              ~~~~             ~~~       ~~2 II  20  233  208  I6  166               130               27               0403                                   105
0.e    --Bod..                           -               -                 -                 -                239               44 7032                            600              575               575             500               330                   550
Corel                         ~~~~             ~~~~             ~~~320  276  200   179              20*                71              ------
AL8O.r. 1-2 _Yr. OQ8
Or ~.                                        330              237              211               033              742               .21              016               808               746              6174              73675                                 6117
-h4.                                           12               76                                102                                 5                20               24                02               00                0                000
0+0.1                       315            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_30  25              614               72               706               700               77               704              654              655               6 53                  6531
Oer8r   .-r                       -    82              44             1,333             1,561            1,728             1,016            1,083             1,370            1.419             1.420            1.420            1,400                 1,I00
-h88.                                         40               22               670                                86                86                84               00171                                               00               10                     0
T-81                                      740             422            1.266             1.83              1,642            1,6~3I            1 .30            1 492             1,34             1,330            1,550            1,330                  7 33
8.1.. 1-2 Yrs 010
Or HerO                          ~~~~             ~~~~             ~~~330  221  211  633               741               021              083               AN0              746               674             075               615                   605
54.86.                             10               6                 8       ~      ~~~~~~                             ~         ~ 19  22  23  23           24               000000
0,17* p.r sal.                   708~~~~~~~D      215              205               110              222               304              300               788               2 34             264              207              260                   160
OT-l                                      222             -                                  5 04              *97              492               492              490               490       0       4940             4400                                   400
8l.22 2-3 On 014
OR .e.                                      320             -.-                                                  534              497               49I              490               490              490              490              40040
e.e.4.            20             -                -                 .                 ~~~              ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   ~       ~~~~~                      ~       ~          ~          ~~~~~~14  14  14  05  15151 5  75
WI8  'r0.*           .    -                                   -I- -                                                                 I0D 1I810                         1I                 1 00             1I810                             10                     0
Sold -  5411.                                310              --.390                                                                385               378              375              303               375              35               5 75                  305
84I~~~~~~~~~~~d ~~~95                              95                95               53                60                78               72                72               '2                 2              72                712'
Purchaee.                         ~~~             ~~~               ~~      ~       ~~15  19  60  13    0031                                        10         0DI                             10101                                                    10
onIOeI.r,r.                    010~~~~~~l      114               155               '0                82               01                82               82                I'               a2               92               82                     0
54*34.                             ~       ~       ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~        ~~~~5  6  834     4                 4                4                 4                4                4                4                      4
8411.PorSel.                       8~      ~      ~~~               ~~      ~~0 1II9  -                -                   56                                 0                6                 6866
0.-e                                       95              95                351              67                70                72       2                         72               20772                                       -       72                    70
jut,,Ua,1i&                                2,300            8.806            3.173             3,394            4,46&             44320            4,i                4,oD             3,900            3,900            3.930                                    9 003.0
~~8  8418.4                       0*8~~~~~~~~     270               308              223               247               245              288               352008                                                                 1902000
5468.r. 2-3 Or. 8411.            ~        ~        ~~- 32            2320                              13                10s6o6                                               78028                                               0                     125
2488.. 2-3 I0    r.do-                                                                                             23               44                6 32             800               595              5's              550              050                    553
00**8- Ir                                     80              2I O.D8                                              222              324               308              286               234              164              103              19                     180
8400  2-5 02*1  801                          310              -                                  -10                                10I0                                0                0                 0               0                 0                     0
5411. 2.3 Or-  &r-d-r-                                                 -                                          39                083              3780              3705         . 325                 3775            375,              3'S                   365
la"   Z,11. 4I1.8                             10               1S               92               --386                                                                                     6                                                  6    
uOrsop.s.O                        ~~~              ~~~              ~~        ~~65  63  GS  08          00                0                78                70               ye                70              20                78                    70
8a88*IIoyM+1t*5                     3               3                 3         .      3                 3                ~       ~3  3  3                                     0                3                                 3                      3
00t200811                                 5       5                         3I                                                                                      5                5                5                 5                                      5
las                    ~~~~           ~~~~330  36      95.0             008.0             28.0              87.0.                             108.             123.               78.              06.0             87.0             67.0                   67.0
bl*or  2-3 0.                  320            -                10.                7.D.                              49.               5802.0                             53.0             52.2             41.2             27.               34.                   34.2
_hte02   2* 50                             23              64.00             51710-            08.              560               06.3             05,0             73.0              59.00            61.              67.0             40:.0                  40.0
82*2-3   r                  383           22               -                                                    2.                38.0              38.0             38.0             080               0003.03.                                                3 0.
54.42411*              ~~~~~388        00               4.0              08.0            -                 -                   1.0              2.0               2.0              20                0.0             2.0              2.                     2.0
346-2,6.1  28401.)                           231              163              194               112               250              2 59              248              280               227              008             175               181                   191
0-*.n    bIIer   2-3  ra450                   -               -                -                 -180                               2.0               284.0            200239.                            139.0            259.0            259.0                 239.0
0.*be   .lIs 2-3  -r     430            -               --17.                                                                   7.              27.              180690                             268.0            109.             268069.2
MUALWU-L~~~~-                         131             863               19*              122               304              6321            .22                26                               --2 ,,U         .12                A



- 66 -
Table T-3j
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Value of Annual Incremental Milk Production
(K '000)
Year
1       2        3        4        5        6        7       8        9        10       11    12-20
Route 3 - Mazabuka
Group A Crossbreed Herds           -        21      58      101      143      158      169      190      209     220      225      225
Group A - Traditional Herds        -        -       -         3        7       13       17       17       17      17       17       17
Group B Herds                      -        -         3      1.3      32       54       74       92      107     116      124      124
Sub-Total Route 3                -       21       61      127      182      225      260     299      333      353      366      366
Route 4 - Monze
Group A Crossbreed Herds           -        27      75      127      107      147      168      189     204      211      211      211
Group A - Traditional Herds        -        -       -         4        7       12       16       16       16      16       16       16
Group B Herds                      -        -         5      20       44       76      101      124      144     156      166      177
Sub-Total Route 4               -        27       80      151      158      235      285     329      364      383      393      404
Route 5 - Monze
Group A Crossbreed Herds           -        21      58       81       85       91      104      117      124     127      127      127
Group A - Traditional Herds        -        -       -         2        4        7       10       10       10       10      10       10
Group B Herds                      -        -         3       9       21       40       54       63       78      84       90       97
Sub-Total Route 5                -       21       61       92      110      138     168      190      212      221      227      234
Route 1 - Kabwe
Group A Crossbreed Herds           -        -       -        27       75      127      145      147      168     189      204      211
Group A - Traditional Herds        -        -       -        -        -         4        7       12       16      16       16       16
Group B Herds                      -        -       -         8       29       57       82      103      126     136      147      155
Sub-Total Route 1                -       -        -        35      104      188     234      262      310      341      367      382
Route 2 - Kabwe
Group A Crossbred Herds            -        -       -        21       51       57       56       64       73       81      84       84
Group A - Traditional Herds        -        -       -         1        3        5        6        6        6        6        6       6
Group B Herds                      -        -       -         4       14       26       36       46       54      59       63       68
Sub- Total Route 2              -        -        -        26       68       88       98     116      133      146      153      158
GRAND TOTAL ALL MILK                 -        69      202     431      622      874   1,045   1,196   1,352   1,444   1,506   1,544
August 19, 1981



ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CFC: Project Related Cash Flow
Project Year                                                                   Post-Project Years
1          2         3          4          5          6             7           8           9           10         11            12          13        14-20
(1982)    (1983)   (_1984)    (1985)   (_1986)    (1987)
----------- - -- In curretK,0    /---------    ---------------- ----------- In cosat18K'00  ----------------------- ---- -
-    --- In current K .000 1/          -       --I   onstant 1987 K ' 000
Sources
Government Loans                  91.5      333.7      490.6      613.6      586.5      426.8            -          -           -                 -            -           -           -
Loan Repayments 2/                  5.3      32.7       113.3     196.4      286.1      399.2          521.2      579.3       544.3       443.5       297.5        154.7        63.7
Total Sources                  96.8      366.4      623.9      810.0      872.6      826.0         521.2       579.3       544.3       443.5       297.5        154.7        63.7         -
Uses
Loans to Farmers                   45.0      270.3     424.2      516.0      481.1      309.2          171.0       36.0         -           -            -           -           -
Repayment of Govt. Loans 3/         2.3       12.9      33.5        61.1      91.1      214.0          236.0      236.0       236.0       236.0        236.0       236.0       236.0       236.0
Technical Services                46.5        63.4      66.4       97.6      105.4       117.6         117.6      117.6       117.6       117.6        117.6       117.6       117.6       117.6
Total Uses                     93.8      346.6      524.1      674.7      677.6      640.8          524.6      389.6       353.6       353.6       353.6        353.6       353.6       353.6
Increase (decrease) in
Working Capital                     3.0       19.8      99.8       135.3      195.0      185.2          (3.4)    189.7        190.7        89.9        (56.1)    (198.9)    (289.9)    (353.6)
Cumulative                            -         22.8      122.6      257.9      452.9      638.1         634.7      824.4    1,015.1       1,105.0    1,048.9        850.0       560.1
1/  Price contingencies on the basis of para 4.20.
2/  On the basis of Tables T-2c, T-3c, and T-3f.  Provision for bad debts 2Z.
t/  Assumption on conditions: Loans for 20 years at 57 including a 5-year grace                                                                                                                                  
period on principal.                                                                                                                                                                                        .
November 3, 1981



- 68 -
ZAMBIA                              Table T-5
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ZADL: Cash Flow of Chisamba Farm
(In Current K'OOO) 1/
Project Year
1         2          3          4         5          6
(1982)    (1983)    (1984)    (1985)    (1986)    (1987)
Sources
Government Loans                 593.6     550.0      500.0       91.6       99.4      -
Cattle Sales                     163.0      194.0     112.0      514.0      632.0      722.0
Total Sources                 756.6     744.0      612.0      605.6     731.4      722.0
Uses
Addition to Plant and
Equipment                      593.6     550.0      500.0       43.0       88.0      88.0
Recurrent Costs                   88.3      130.5     138.3      281.8      248.0      271.4
Repayment of Govt. Loans 2/       -          -         -         300.0      300.0     300.0
Total Uses                   681.9      680.5      638.3      624.8     636.0      659.4
Increase (decrease) in
Working Capital                  74.0       63.5     (26.3)    (19.2)       95.4      62.6
1/ Price contingencies on the basis of para 4.20
2/  Assumption on conditions: Loans for 15 years at 11%
including a 3-year grace period.
November 3, 1981



ZAMBIA
SHALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJbCT
DPB Project Related Cash Plow
(I. Crrent RO000) I/
ProJect Year-                                                                                                Post-Project Years
1    2         ~    ~~3   4          5          N               7          N    8               10        11         12         13         14        11         16    ~ 17    ~ 18               ~ 19       2-0              21
_____________________________    (1982)    (1083)    (19N4)    (1985)    (1986)   (ION))  (TONI)    (1889)    (1890)    (DOSS)    (1992)    (19 93 )    (1994)    ( 1995)    (1996)   (1997)   (1998)    (1999)    (200 0)   (200 1) (2002)
Sources
Cover.- ent L.o.s                      4.5     117.0       74.7      187.5     287.4      455.5              -          -         -          -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -                -
bilk Collection Ch-rge   2/            -         91l       29.7       69.5     122.4      181.9            230.1      283.1     334.8      379.1      419.2     455.5      482.8      511.7      542.5      575.1      609.5      646.1     684.8       726.0           769.6
Total OScrocs                    4.5      126.1     104.4      257.0      409.8     637.4            230.1      283.1     334.8      379.1      419.2      455.5      482.8      511.7     542.5      575.1      609.5      646.1      684.8      726.0            769.6
Uses
Addition to Plant 6 Eqlipmeot    -              65.0       12.4       67.4     117.4      205.3             52.1        -       113.1        -        107.4      105.1        7.0     176.0       77.8      154.6      141.0        -        191.2        -              192.5
oper-tig Costs                        4.5      51.0       62.3      120.1     170.0      250.2            153.4      162.6     172.4      182.7      193.7     205.3      217.7      230.7      244.6      259.2      274.8      291.3     308.7      327.3            346.9
Repoye-et of Govt. Lo..s 3/            -         -          -          -         _          -                -         _        272.4      272.4      272.4      272.4     272.4      272.4      272.4      272.4      272.4      272.4      272.4      272.4
Total ONes                       4.5      116.0      74.7      187.5      287.4     455.5            205.5      162.6     557.9      455.1      573.5      582.8     497.1      679.1      594.8      686.2      688.2      563.7      772.3      599.7            539.4
Increase (decre-se) is
Working Capital                        -         10.1      29.7       69.5      122.4     181.9             24.6      120.5   (223.1)   (76.0) (154.3)   (127.3)    (14.3)  (167.4)    (52.3)  (111.1)    (78.7)                   82.4      (87.3)    126.3             230.2
Cu=nlative                               -         10.1       39.8     109.3      231.7      413.6            438.2     558.7      335.6      259.6      105.3     (22.0)    (36.3)  (203.7)   (256.0)  (367.1)  (445.8)  (363.4)  (450.9)   (324.6)                       (94.4)
1/  Price continzencies on the basei  of pora 4.20  except that asnusl rates                                                                ,
from 1988 os-ards have beeo assusad at 6X for a11 iteNs.
2/  A      charge of R 0.04/1 beilt ioRt  the prodocer price ntrocture has been
aeso-ed to  tocresseat 12% per an- ea over ProJect years 1-6 and at 6%
per a-os. thereafter.
?/  AnnOPRti-o  on co-ditione: I.a.s  for 20 pears at 11%, i-clodig 00 8-year
apace peeied with interest capit.lied.
October 21, 1981



ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Cash Flow of the Project
Project Years                                 Post-Project Years
1        2         3         4         5         6               7         8     9 and
(1982)   (1983)   (1984)   (1985)   (1986)   (1987)              (1988)   (1989)  onwards
--------------   In current K'OOO _/ --------------               In constant 1987 K'OOO
Sources
IDA Credit Disbursement                280.0    760.0  1,120.0  1,120.0    960.0  1,200.0               560.0       -         -
Loan Repayments 2/                       2.3      12.9      33.5    361.1    391.1    514.0             536.0    536.0    808.4
Total Sources                     282.3    772.9  1,153.5  1,481.1  1,351.1  1,714.0             1.096.0    536.0    808.4
Uses
Credit (through CFC)                    91.5    333.7    490.6    613.6    586.5    426.8                  -         -         -
Chisamba Farm (through ZADL)           593.6    550.0    500.0        91.6      99.4       -               -         -         -
Milk Collection (through DPB)            4.5    117.1       74.7     187.5    287.4    455.5               -         -         -
Technical Services (through MAWD)   433.9    322.4    363.4    430.8    423.4    466.5                  466.5    466.5    466.5
Roads & Water Works (through MAWD)   33.9         61.9      90.4      91.7    113.1       95.0           95.0      95.0      95.0
IDA Service Charge                       -         2.1       7.8      16.2      24.6      31.8           40.8      45.0      45.0
Total Uses                      1,157.4  1,387.2  1,526.9  1,431.4  1,534.4  1,475.6               602.3    606.5    606.5
Surplus (Deficit)                       (875.1)  (614.7)  (373.4)    49.7   (183.3)   238.4                493.6    (70.5)   201.9
1/  Price contingencies on the basis of para 4.20.
7/  From Tables T-4 to T-6, "Repayment of Government Loans".                                                                                                 m
November 3, 1981



- 71 -
ZAMBIA                        Table T-8
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Import Parity Prices of Milk and Beef
Used in Economic Analysis
Financial    Economic _/
K            K
I.   Reconstituted Milk
Border Price (per ton CIF Lusaka) 2/
- Skim Milk Powder (SMP)                     1,623         1,989
- Butter Oil                                 3,085         3,779
Value of 1 ton of milk
- SMP: 0.09 t                                  145
- Butteroil: 0.04 t                            123
- Minor Ingredients                              27
- Reconstitution Cost 3/
Total                                               295           361
II. Beef
Border Price (per ton CIF Lusaka) 4/                 2,842        3,481
Value of 1 ton of cold dressed weight
in Cold Storage Board Depot                      2,842         3,481
Transport Cost                               464
Processing Cost                              126
Sub-Total                                          590           675
Farmgate Price
- Cold dressed weight                        2,252            2,806
- Liveweight 5/                     1,126    1,126            1,403
- Butter Oil                                 3,085            3,779
1/ On the basis of K 0.98 = US$1.00.
2/ Commercial quotations.
31 Assumed to be equal to the cost of reception
of fresh milk at the factory, therefore without
differential effect on ex-factory price.
4/ Argentine frozen beef.
_/  Extraction rate of 50%.
August 18, 1981



ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
(K'OOO)
Economic Costs                           Economic Benefits
Project             Incremental                                      Crossbred                   Net
Year     Capital   Recurrent    Total          Milk        Meat       Cattle    Total         Benefits
1        917.8        284.1   1,201.9         -           -           -           -       -1,201.9
2        990.2        422.2   1,412.4         64.9        -           -            64.9   -1,347.5
3      1,070.5        557.0   1,627.5        191.6        42.1        -          233.7   -1,393.8
4        607.2        902.6   1,509.8        398.9       152.9        -          551.8      -958.0
5        412.8      1,118.5   1,531.3        626.6       578.0        -        1,204.6      -326.7
6        518.6      1,381.5   1,900.1        831.7       940.0       144.0    1,915.7          15.6
7        193.4      1,322.4   1,515.8        956.2    1,338.9        258.7    2,553.3    1,037.5
8        234.7      1,407.0   1,641.7    1,139.3    1,516.6          373.5    3,029.4    1,387.7
9        132.3      1,462.5   1,594.8    1,284.7    1,647.1          427.5    3,359.3    1,764.8
10        183.8      1,486.9   1,670.7    1,373.2    1,812.6          416.2    3,602.0    1,931.3
11        314.8      1,445.8   1,760.6    1,431.3    1,906.6          416.2    3,754.1    1,993.5
12        215.2      1,462.7   1,677.9    1,472.1    1,955.7          416.2    3,844.0    2,166.1
13        155.8      1,469.8   1,625.6    1,470.7    1,962.2          416.2    3,849.1    2,223.5
14        187.1      1,469.8   1,656.9    1,470.7'   1,962.2          416.2    3,849.1    2,192.2
15        259.6      1,469.8   1,729.4    1,470.7    1,962.2          416.2    3,849.1    2,119.7
16        365.7      1,469.8   1,835.5    1,470.7    1,962.2          416.2    3,849.1    2,013.6
17        175.6      1,469.8   1,645.4    1,470.7    1,962.2          416.2    3,849.1    2,203.7
18        119.7      1,469.8   1,589.5    1,470.7    1,962.2          416.2    3,849.1    2,259.6           IA
19        122.5      1,469.8   1,592.3    1,470.7    1,962.2          416.2    3,849.1    2,256.8
20        108.0      1,469.8   1,577.8    1,470.7    1,962.2          416.2    3,849.1    2,271.3
June 5, 1981



- 73 -
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Project Manager
Responsibilities and Duties
A. General
1.        The Project Manager (PM) operating out of the Project
Management Unit (PMU) would be responsible to the Assistant Director
of Agriculture (Extension) through the Senior Dairy Officer for all
matters related to the development and the implementation of the
Project. He would coordinate with the District Advisory Committees
and either attend or be represented at their regular sessions and
would liaise on a regular basis with Veterinary section of DVTCS and
with the Planning Unit of MAWD.
B. Specific
2.        With the assistance of the PMU staff the PM would:
(i) prepare quarterly implementation schedules and annual
budgets with each of the participating agencies;
(ii) prepare schedules of capital and recurrent inputs and
be responsible for their purchase;
(iii) receive and handle requests from implementing agencies
on matters requiring guidance and coordination as they
affect Project development;
(iv) be responsible with the relevant agencies, to assist in
addressing technical field problems and ensuring that
the Project related training program is carried out;
(v) monitor the physical and financial progress of the
Project and would prepare quarterly progress reports
for presentation to the Permanent Secretary and the
Steering Committee; and
(vi) would recommend modifications to the Project as found
necessary as a result of the monitoring.
C. Qualifications
3.        He should have a degree in agricultural science with an
advanced degree in livestock management and/or at least ten years
experience in dairy production and farm management preferably in
tropical or sub-tropical Africa.



74 -
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Financial Controller
Responsibilities and Duties
1.        The Financial Controller working in the Project Management
Unit (PMU) would be responsible through the Project Manager to the
Senior Finance Officer (Capital) of MAWD for all Project
implementation matters involving financial accounting, cash control,
and management information systems. Specifically, he would be
responsible for the following duties which would be carried out in
compliance with Government procedures:
(a) Cash Planning and Control
-   establish and maintain effective cash planning and
control procedures for Project activities;
-   prepare comprehensive cash flow forecasts covering
project activities to show cash movements by quarters;
-   prepare regular monthly, quarterly and annual reports
comparing actual cash movements with forecasts and
identifying the reasons for significant variances;
-   prepare, on the basis of the reports and together with
supporting documentation, disbursement claims for
submission to IDA category sub-heads through the
Ministry of Finance;
(b) Financial Accounting
Establish and maintain a financial system which
would facilitate and ensure:
-   that returns from the implementing agencies provide
financial data in a form which facilitates the speedy
processing, consolidation and analysis of information;
-   regular financial reporting to the Senior Finance
Officer (Capital) of MAWD; and
-   a satisfactory basis for identifying the reasons for
variances between actual and budgeted expenditure and
for allocating expenditures between different project
activities.



- 75 -
(c) Management Information System
Design and implement a management information
system that would facilitate and ensure:
constant and meaningful flow of information regarding
the expenditures, timing and progress of all Project
components to the Project Manager;
periodic reporting of the scopes of project
implementation to the Ministry of Finance and IDA; and
compilation of statistical data related to all Project
activity.
Qualifications and Experience
-   he should have a degree with a bias in financial
management or a recognized professional qualification
in accountancy/finance; and
-   he should have worked, at managerial level, in the
field of finance or accountancy for not less than 7
years.



- 76 -
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Chisamba Ranch Manager
A. General
1.        The Ranch Manager wouldl be responsible to the Senior Dairy
Officer through the Project Manager for all matters concerned with the
day-to-day technical and financial operations of the ranch. He would
also liaise with ZADL veterinary and technical staff in matters
concerned with capital improvements and animal health.
B. Specific
2.        He would:
(i) establish and administer an effective ranching system
for the production and sale of crossbred heifers
following the general guidelines laid down in the
Project Preparation Report and the Project Staff
Appraisal Report;
(ii)  with the assistance of the Project Financial Controller
establish and maintain (a) an effective financial
management system to properly control the use of the
imprest account for ranch operating expenditures,
capital improvement and cattle purchase, and (b) a
budgeting and financial reporting system;
(iii)  establish and maintain complete cattle production
records with particular emphasis on reproduction
coefficients; and
(iv)  in close coordinaition with the PMU organize a plan for
the sale and distribution of cattle and stargrass
planting material.
C.        Qualifications
3.        A degree in animal science and or veterinary science and a
minimum of 5 years of ranch management experience preferably in
tropical or sub-tropical Africa.



- 77 -
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Transport Manager
Responsibilities and Duties
A. General
1.        The Transport Manager would be responsible to the Area
Manager of DPB for all matters related to the establishment,
coordination, implementation and operation of the Project milk
collection system.
B. Specific
2.        Assisted by and in coordination with the Project Manager,
the Transport Manager would:
(i)  design and organize an effective milk collection system
to service the Project smallholders;
(ii) work with DPB staff to structure the most economically
efficient yet hygenically acceptable method to handle
the widely dispersed sources of milk expected from
Project farmers;
(iii) assist the Project Financial Controller in the
preparation of procurement documents for the purchase
of vehicles and equipment required for the milk
collection system;
(iv) with the cooperation and guidance of DPB, employ and
supervise the added staff needed to operate the
collection system;
(v)  organize and supervise a record-keeping system for the
operation, maintenance, and control of Project vehicles
and operational equipment;
(vi) prepare regular quarterly reports for submission
through the DPB to the Steering Committee, showing the
location and rate of development of the flow of milk to
DPB from Project farmers; and



- 78 -
(vii)  together with the PM attend the District Advisory
Committee meetings to discuss with district
representatives problems and progress related to milk
collection.
Qualifications and Experience
3.        He should have at least a diploma in Dairy Technology with a
minimum of five years of dairy plnt experience. Knowledge of motor
mechanics would be highly desirable.



ZAMBIA                                                                          X               g>
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                            Q O
MILK COLLECTION ROUTES                                          Chibomba-n   \. 6
KABWE DISTRICT                                                                  -
--Milk collection routes
Rood to be upgroded
Proposed milk cooling on processing center
Proposed milk depots
Paved road
Other roads
Rivers
0     Agricultural camps                                                   Liteto
A     Veterinary stations
Q     Dip tanks
District boundaries
KILOMETERS 0            5             10           15
K        A         B        W          E                                               MILES 0                                           10
Landless Corner
0    O    0DOpoO               N Manswisa
Mwachisompolcia          ;Musenga                                                                        [
R    U             R    A              L
KALOLA    S E T T L E M E N T
-,   ,,            ~~~                                                                      ~     ~~, '.,V
D                  S    T    R                            C    T
rI._                                                                               j, -atn w.. l  WdiBls t_tl .. t 
of' lb.    r      flI a nt5. ,. m' t nl N a,flffl,atlfllt    The de,,at,,,lb,  t,ued snd4 the                                 ,  
*St. .4,lot,,, N tN mop. ND ellit tf.lr4r ntb IsKtItt 01 WNy C ltlt Snd lS : *
DN~~fr; bxnris1 ,,, -    .~lf>~--                                                 - -- 
---0',c _o df i B            ,-    <*.,,  zAi.j                                    -  Munchenle                                               1
ANGOLA f                   \\                 {t~r<r          .                                                     =                               \
MOZAMBIQUE jO                                                                               Chikumbi                     w
|   f   / ZIMtASWE (/  \      LiUSAKA             D I        S T R I T                                      zatkolZk,,,\
~~~a t.~~~~~~\ a t a tt a t~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                                  -  Ut~ - k 70~






ZAMBIA. 
SMALLHCLDER  DAIRY  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   \                                Vnenga 53
PMILK COLLECTION ROUTES                                                                                                       ZABUKA
MAZABUKA AND MONZE DISTRICTS                               iholirrrbaea o
Milk col ectio^ ro3tes
-   Rcod to be upgraded
Proposed milk ccoling on processing center
Proposed milk depots
-    Paved roads
Other roads
Rivers                                                         M-g
0   Agricult,ral camps
A.  Veterinary stations                                                                       M  A  Z A  B U  K A
4   Dip tanks
-      District boundary                                                                         D  I S T  R  I C  T
KILCMETERS 0           55
M I LE5 r                 5                           ~                          !}t   Munj i l
/          g                .      \4ou~~~~~~~cinga
0      S  a alika
/M  O N Z E  /D I S T R I C T                                     
Lweeto  MA                                  ~~~~~~~~~~0 Nkonkola
/OZ2   , hikv Cikunk                                          I     ZAMBIA                 zC             \
hisekesike,,4/    \    ~           ChNaaoubol                -Nol                   Oc b]Nknkl
I   /              /                   /          \               ASikabenga                                      \~~~~~a  ZMBI
ZAiRE          v             'I
AN0--DiA r                                    st 
|                                        \~~~~~~~~~~Gwembe                                                                                :
~~~I                                                                             .                      .             -
wowc;~~~~
Z,MABW
_________________________   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~   ~0



