Document of
@;9y                The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3122-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR THE
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 20, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =  Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1.25          = K 1.00
US$1.00          = K 0.80
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AFC       - Agricultural Finance Company, Limited
CFC       -  Cattle Finance Company, Limited
CSB       -  Cold Storage Board
DPB       -  Dairy Produce Board
MAWD      -  Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
NAMB      -  National Agricultural Marketing Board
NBS       -  National Beef Scheme
PMU       -  Project Management Unit
PSC       -  Project Steering Committee
RDC       -  Rural Development Corporation
ZADB      -  Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
ZADL      -  Zambia Agricultural Development, Limited
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER             :          Republic of Zambia
BENEFICIARIES                   About 1,800 smallholder families
AMOUNT                          SDR 6.7 million (US$7.5 million equivalent)
TERMS                :          Standard
RELENDING            :          To (i) Cattle Finance Company (CFC): US$2.70
million at five percent per annum, for 20
years, including five years of grace, for on-
lending to smallholders at 11 percent; (ii)
Dairy Produce Board (DPB): US$1.25 million for
milk collection services, for 20 years, in-
cluding eight years of grace, with interest at
11 percent per annum capitalized during the
grace period; and (iii) Zambia Agricultural
Development, Ltd. (ZADL): US$1.85 million for
heifer farm development, for 15 years, includ-
ing three years of grace, with interest at 11
percent per annum.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:            The proposed project is designed to increase
dairy production and raise farm incomes in the
Mazabuka, Monze and Kabwe Districts of the
Southern and Central Provinces, by increasing
smallholders use of modern farm techniques by
smallholders and improving milk marketing ser-
vices. It provides credit to smallholders,
developing of a breeding farm,improving animal
husbandry and veterinary services and estab-
lishing milk collection services.
The project would increase production of milk,
beef and breeding stock. The main risks con-
cern the capacities of the implementing agenc-
ies to carry it out and uncertainty about far-
mers participation -- their numbers and pace
at which they would adopt improved dairying
practices. Surveys have determined that there
are sufficient numbers of interested farmers.
Nevertheless, to reduce risk, this initial
project is limited in scope and divided into
two phases; implementing the second would de-
pend on satisfactory farmer participation in
the first.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS:                                 Local  Foreign  Total
-----US -000 …
On-Farm Development              2,889       785  3,674
Animal Husbandry Extension          493       87    580
Veterinary Services                 176       69    245
Heifer Farm Development             639    1,159  1,828
Milk Collection Service            533       651  1,184
Project Management                 604       709  1,313
Total Base Cost                  5,334    3,490  8,824
Physical Contingencies             237        87    324
Price Contingencies              1,912       638  2,550
Total Project Cost               7,483    4,215 11,698
FINANCING PLAN: (net of taxes and duties)                 Local  Foreign  Total
-----US$ Million-----
IDA                                3.3       4.2    7.5
Government of Zambia               3.4        -      3.4
Farmers                            0.6        -      0.6
Total                              7.3       4.2   11.5
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:
Bank FY      82   83   84   85   86   87   88
-----------US$ Million---------
Annual              -   0.7  1.2  1.6  1.2  1.4  1.4
Cumulative          -   0.7  1.9  3.5  4.7  6.1  7.5
RATE OF RETURN:         17 percent
APPRAISAL REPORT:      Report No. 3574-ZA dated November 10, 1981
MAPS:                  Nos. IBRD 15775 and 15776



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR THE SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Zambia of SDR 6.7 million (approximately US$7.5
million equivalent) on standard terms to help finance a two-phase pilot
Smallholder Dairy Development Project. Of the proceeds of the credit,
US$2.70 million for farm credit would be onlent to smallholders by the
Cattle Finance Company at 11 percent per annum, while the Government would
lend to CFC for 20 years, including five years of grace, with interest at 5
percent per annum; US$1.25 million to the Dairy Produce Board for milk
collection services for 20 years, including 8 years of grace, with interest
at 11 percent per annum capitalized during the grace period; and US$1.85
million to Zambia Agricultural Development, Limited for breeding farm
development for 15 years, including three years of grace, with interest at
11 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY i
2.        With its mineral resources and plentiful land area suitable for
crops and livestock, Zambia, though landlocked, has the potential for rapid
and sustained development. Economic and social goals since independence in
1964 have been security of transport routes to the sea, reduction of
dependence on copper through agricultural and industrial development, more
equitable distribution of income and expanded educational and training
opportunities. Progress toward achieving these goals has been below
potential due to structural imbalances in the economy, prolonged turmoil
within the region and, since 1975, a severe economic depression. Increased
educational opportunities and construction of the TAZARA Railway through
Tanzania to Dar-es-Salaam are the main areas in which substantial progress
has been made.
1 The text is substantially the same as that of Part I of Presi-
dent's Report No. P-3113a-ZA for the Southern Province Agricultural De-
velopment Project. It is based on a Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia
(Report No. 3007-ZA) which was distributed to the Executive Directors on
March 17, 1981. The most recent economic data are suimmarized in Annex I.



3.        The economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on govern-
ment activity.   Imports and exports range between 40 and 45 percent of
GDP.   Government expenditures have amounted to about 35 percent of GDP in
recent years, and the Government owns a majority share of mining and most
manufacturing enterprises. Much economic activity is dependent on expatri-
ate technical, managerial and administrative skills. Despite high rates of
savings and investment, real growth has been disappointing, averaging only
about 2.8 percent a year before the onset of the economic depression in
1975.
4.          Diversification efforts have lagged; mining still provides over
90 percent of foreign exchange earnings and 30 percent of gross value ad-
ded. 2  Agriculture accounts for about 10 to 12 percent of GDP, compared
with 14 percent at independence. Manufacturing grew quickly through 1975,
but has since stagnated, due to foreign exchange scarcity and a heavy de-
pendence on imported inputs. Services also grew quickly, to about 35 per-
cent of GDP, due to Zambia's success in expanding education and to increas-
ed government activity. However, income is concentrated in urban areas, as
a result of high wages throughout the modern sector and a progressive
deterioration in the rural-urban terms of trade. These factors have caused
major rural-to-urban migration (about 40 percent of the population is
urban) and unemployment in urban areas.
The Current Economic Crisis
5.          Zambia continues to experience an economic and financial crisis
initiated by a 40 percent decline in copper prices in 1975. Unremunerative
producer policies, difficulties in transporting goods to and from the sea,
and a recent decline in copper production have exacerbated the situation.
Real GDP stagnated between 1974 and 1978, and declined by eight percent in
1979, with mining down 19 percent and agriculture down 10 percent.   There
was little, if any, growth during 1980.  Real GNP per capita (US$556 mil-
lion in 1980) is 25 percent below that in 1974.
6.        The balance of payments has been in chronic disequilibrium since
1975, with current account deficits averaging eight to 10 percent of GDP.
In spite of heavy external borrowing, a build-up in arrears on import pay-
ments and a draw down on reserves, foreign exchange has been insufficient
to maintain the real value of imports, currently about one-half its level
in 1975.   As a result, there persists an economy-wide problem of under-
utilization of capacity.    This  has  seriously  affected  production  and
investment, especially in the crucial mining sector which has accumulated a
large backlog of maintenance and rehabilitation requirements contributing
directly to recent declines in copper production and exports.
2 In constant prices. In current prices, however, the contribu-
tion of mining has fallen to about 18 percent of GDP in recent years, due
to low copper prices.



- 3 -
7.          The decline in copper prices severely affected Zambia's fiscal
and monetary positions. Historically, mineral taxes provided a large share
of government revenue, but they have been negligible since 1976.  This con-
tributed to large fiscal deficits, which required domestic bank borrowing
averaging  13  percent  of GDP  in 1975-77  and  five  percent  in  1978-80.
At first, the shortfall in mineral revenue was perceived to be temporary
and expenditure grew rapidly,  in part carried by the momentum of large
capital projects already underway.   Subsequently, a successful effort was
made to raise non-mineral revenues, but the positive effects were offset by
large increases in expenditure on defense and subsidies, mostly for maize
imports resulting from poor harvests in 1979 and 1980.  Deficit financing
has absorbed 88 percent of net domestic credit creation between 1975 and
1980, and contributed to a sharp rise in domestic prices, averaging 18 per-
cent per annum during 1976-78 and 11 percent per annum in 1979-80.
8.          The Government signed a two-year Standby Agreement of SDR 250
million with the IMF in April 1978.  In the event, the Government's recur-
rent account was balanced in 1978, and the balance of payments recorded a
small surplus on current account in 1979. However, once the Standby Agree-
ment expired, the accounts returned to their previous imbalances with in-
creased severity, partly as a result of pent-up demand for imports and
postponed expenditures.   A three-year Extended Fund Facility of SDR 800
million was approved in May 1981.  It aims at a more gradual but longer-
lasting adjustment process and at balance in the government and external
accounts by 1983.  Under the EFF, the Government is committed to eliminate
the maize subsidy and reduce the fertilizer subsidy by the end of 1983; to
increase sorely needed recurrent expenditure for operations and maintenance
in productive sectors; to implement economic pricing for products subject
to price control; to raise agricultural producer prices towards world price
equivalents; to provide a larger share of domestic credit to the private
sector; and to allocate sufficient foreign exchange to repay most of the
external arrears.   Implementation of the EFF will be difficult, and draw-
ings have already been delayed due to breaches of the credit ceilings.
9.          Although Zambia's financial circumstances will remain tight for
the immediate future, its long-term development prospects have recently im-
proved. A significant and long-overdue change in government policy towards
agriculture  appears  to  have  occured.    Producer  prices  have  steadily
increased over the past few years, with significant increases already
announced for the 1981/82 season.   Special tax incentives have been ap-
proved, including a radical reduction in the tax rate on agricultural
income. A three-year (1981-83) investment program drawn up as part of the
EFF arrangement allocates 30 percent of total expenditure to the agricul-
ture sector, a much higher proportion than during the 1970s, and, impor-
tantly, includes a number of projects aimed at increasing smallholder pro-
ductivity. These measures represent a necessary beginning towards exploit-
ation of Zambia's considerable agricultural potential; constant attention
to maintaining and improving these incentives will be required, however, to
bring about  sustained agricultural  growth.   In particular,  a long-term



- 4 -
strategy for the development of agricultural and agro-based industrial
exports needs to be drawn up.
Creditworthiness
10.        Zambia's creditworthiness is inextricably linked to the produc-
tion  and  price  of copper.    Estimates  of  economically  recoverable  ore
reserves indicate that copper production can be maintained at present
levels through the mid-1990s, but that depletion of reserves is expected to
cause pro3uction to fall off sharply thereafter. Thus, Zambia's long-term
creditworthiness requires strong measures to develop a viable source of
non-mineral exports.   The recent policy measures in agriculture represent
an important initial step towards increasing production and investment in
this sector and should improve Zambia's creditworthiness to the extent that
the export potential is developed.
11.          Prior to 1975, Zambia's external public debt was relatively
small, and the debt service ratio was less than 10 percent of exports.
Since then, outstanding debt has risen sharply, to an estimated US$1,785
million by end 1980, and the debt service ratio to about 19 percent of ex-
ports.  In addition, external payment arrears on non-public debt stood at
about US$590 million by the end of 1980.   The IBRD and  the People's
Republic of China are Zambia's largest creditors, each with 21 percent of
contractual debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1980.
12.        Zambia is obliged under the EFF agreement to retire arrears.  A
substantial part of IMF resources will be used for this purpose and net
drawings (after allowing for repurchases) will add little to capacity to
import.  Service on multilateral external debt is expected to remain at a
level of about 14% - 19% up to 1990.   The situation requires  careful
management. However, the Government is aware of the magnitude of the prob-
lem and of the requirement for careful debt management. New external bor-
rowings of under 10 years maturity will be limited and monitored closely
under the EFF arrangement. Given the Governments commitment to implement
an EFF program and its actions to improve the incentives for agricultural
production, Zambia continues to be creditworthy for IBRD lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
13.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 27 loans and four credits to
Zambia totalling about US$602 million (net of cancellations).   Fourteen
loans and two credits have financed power, transportation and communica-
tions  projects.   Four loans  for education have helped  expand Zambia's
secondary and higher education systems, teacher training, and commercial,
agricultural and technical education. Two program loans have helped Zambia
maintain its development program in periods of severe economic disloca-
tion. In agriculture and forestry, six loans and one credit have been for
industrial forest plantations, livestock, commercial crops, integrated



family farming, coffee production and the Eastern Province Agricultural
Development Project, approved by the Executive Directors on May 21, 1981,
to assist smallholder agriculture in the Eastern Province. Other loans
have assisted Zambia's urban development program and, through the
Development Bank of Zambia, its manufacturing, agricultural and industrial
sectors. A technical assistance credit is helping the Government improve
its planning and project preparation.
14.       IFC has invested about US$40 million (of which IFC now holds
US$29 million) in seven projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments
were in shoe manufacturing, two in a packaging materials plant, and one
each for equity in the Development Bank of Zambia, cobalt production and
textiles. Currently, IFC is exploring investing in a tailings leaching
project and a fuel alcohol plant. Summary statements of Bank Group loans,
credits and investments and notes on the execution of ongoing projects are
in Annex II.
15.       The Bank Group expects to continue supporting government programs
to reduce dependence on copper, narrow the urban-rural income gap and de-
velop local managerial and technical skills. Anticipated lending reflects
the Government's emphasis on directly productive sectors, particularly
agriculture-related activities, although continuing assistance to educa-
tion, transportation and industry also is contemplated. The Southern Pro-
vince Agriculture Development Project, the second in a series of area de-
velopment projects to assist smallholders agriculture, was negotiated in
September. In addition, projects for rural water supply, education and a
line of credit to the Development Bank of Zambia have been appraised.
16.       While continuing to emphasize diversification, the Bank also ex-
pects to cooperate in future with Zambian authorities on measures to stem
the mining industry's deterioration. In this connection, a Bank mission
reviewed the sector in August 1980 and a mining rehabilitation project,pre-
pared in July this year, is expected to be appraised shortly.
17.       Except in the agricultural sector, implementation of Bank-assist-
ed projects in Zambia has proceeded reasonably well, although in recent
years the sharp contraction of the economy and the resulting shortages and
budgetary cuts have had a deleterious effect on a few projects.
PART III - THE LIVESTOCK/DAIRY SUB-SECTOR
18.     Reflecting agriculture's duality overall -- where a small number of
highly capitalized commercial farmers produce most of the marketed produc-
tion -- fewer than 40 commercial dairy farmers (mainly of European origin)
produce over 60 percent of the marketed fresh milk and about 100,000
traditional smallholders produce about 30 million liters per annum, mainly
for subsistence. Fresh milk in Zambia is produced by: (i) the large
commercial farmers, whose average yearly output of about 10.5 million



- 6 -
liters, is from exotic European dairy breeds, mostly Friesian; (ii)a number
of Zambian emergent farmers, who, with assistance from government programs,
have developed small-scale cross-bred dairy units and contribute a small
part of total marketed output. (Development of the "emergent farmers" has
been limited by a shortage of suitable dairy cattle and lack of a
dependable milk collection service). (iii) some ten generally poorly
managed state ranches run by the Zambia Agricultural Development, Limited
(ZADL) whose contribution to total milk output is about 4 million liters
per annum. (iv) traditional smallholders, the largest group, who account
for the bulk of Zambia's total fresh milk output, mostly for subsistence
and sale at the village level. Using indigenous cattle, smallholders'
yields are very low and highly seasonal (about 200 liters per lactation,
mainly during the rainy season). With improved animal health and nutrition
and an effective marketing system, there is substantial potential for
increased output and the amount marketed.
19.       Marketed fresh milk has declined over the last 15 years -- from
15 to 10.4 million liters per annum -- as a result of inadequate producer
prices and uncertainty about land tenure and the future of large-scale com-
mercial farming. The number of commercial farmers declined from 120 in
1964 to 40 at present and the size of their herds shrank. However, with
recent increases in producer prices, commercial dairy farmers have begun to
expand their herds and production facilities. Accurate data are not avail-
able on production trends in the traditional sector.
Dairy Development Objectives and Strategy
20.       The Government intends to develop the dairy industry and expand
milk production 40 percent by 1983. Towards this end, steps will be taken
to expand the number of milk-producing market-oriented "emergent farmers"
and by offering more attractive prices, stimulate commercial farmers to in-
crease their output.   Regarding state ranches, emphasis will be on consol-
idation and on improving efficiency.
Livestock/Dairy Extension and Research
21.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development (MAWD), through
it's Dairy Development Unit, which is headed by the Senior Dairy Officer,
is responsible for development in the sub-sector. In each province, dis-
trict animal husbandry officers, supervised by provincial dairy officer,
reach farmers through a network of agricultural camps and stations located
in each district. The Animal Husbandry Research Center at Mazabuka was
closed down several years and the new research center has not yet been ful-
ly developed. Notwithstanding, the earlier research done at Mazabuka, plus
additiional work being carried out at the Central Research Station near
Lusaka, is adequate for present requirements.



-7-
Animal Health Services
22.       The Department of Veterinary Services and Tsetse Control is res-
ponsible for animal health and tsetse control. Its two branches (veteri-
nary services and tsetse control) are each headed by a provincial officer,
responsible to the director in Lusaka. The veterinary services branch con-
ducts control campaigns aimed at preventing outbreaks of major diseases,
particularly tick-borne diseases which pose a threat to exotic and cross-
bred stock. Other diseases which the service helps to control are para-
sites in stock, liver fluke, brucellosis and the sporadic outbreaks of
haemorrhagic septicaemia. In the project area, trypanosomiasis is not a
threat to livestock as there are no tsetse flies.
Credit Services
23.       Commercial dairy farmers obtain credit from commercial banks and
"emergent farmers" from the Agricultural Finance Company (AFC), which main-
ly extends seasonal credit for crop production. The Cattle Finance Company
(CFC) (para. 24) operates on a small scale, making loans mostly for beef
cattle production. CFC is well managed and has so far achieved a satisfac-
tory loan recovery rate. When it becomes operational in 1982, the Zambia
Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB) is expected to replace both AFC and
CFC. The Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project (para. 13) pro-
vides funds for technical assistance to ZADB. Currently, commercial banks
charge 12 percent per annum interest (the ceiling set by the Bank of Zambia
on all domestic lending) on agricultural loans - barely matching the cur-
rent and projected inflation rates. However, the Government has set a
ceiling of 9 percent per annum on seasonal loans made by AFC to small-scale
farmers, while CFC currently charges an interest rate of 10 percent.
Although this rate was perhaps adequate in the past when CFC operated with
funds obtained on grant terms from the Government, it is inadequate to
cover the cost of its future borrowings and is negative in real terms.
Credit requirements of smallholders far exceed AFC's and CFC-s available
funds which are constrained by the country's financial squeeze and
limitations on public sector credit.
Cattle Finance Company
24.       CFC, one of the eleven subsidiaries of the Rural Development Cor-
poration, plays an important role of providing credit to farmers for breed-
ing and fattening beef cattle. From a head office in Lusaka and 10 widely
scattered branches, each headed by a field inspector trained in livestock
management, CFC operates 2 livestock finance programs: one for members of
the National Beef Scheme (NBS) and the other for commercial farmers, with
loan ceilings of K 10,000 for the former and K 20,000 for the latter. Gen-
erally well-managed, CFC has a reasonably satisfactory loan recovery rate
of between 75 and 85 percent. To date, the company has made a total 455
loans for the purchase of 79,920 cattle. CFC has an authorized capital of
K 3 million. In 1979, it made a profit of K 14,648 (the first since 1974).



-8-
Input Supply
25.       The supply and distribution of farm inputs generally are adequate
in the project area. In the Central Province, the National Agricultural
Marketing Board (NAMB) supplies farmers with barbed wire, while other items
are easily purchased from government stores and private traders. The
Southern Province Cooperative Marketing Union (SPCMU) 3 supplies most of
the inputs in this province through an adequate supply network.   The two
local sources of cross-bred heifers -- the Government's Batoka breeding
farm, and the commercial dairy farmers, who sell their surplus heifers --
are inadequate. In the proposed project, therefore, Zambia Agricultural
Development, Limited's (ZADL) (para. 29) ranch at Chisamba, which currently
produces beef cattle, would be converted to heifer breeding.
Milk Marketing and Pricing
26.       Nearly all milk is channelled through the Dairy Produce Board
(DPB) (para. 28), a parastatal responsible for purchasing, processing and
marketing dairy products. In 1966, to improve nutrition, the Government
stimulated milk demand by subsidizing the price of reconstituted milk.
Since its introduction in that year, reconstituted milk has accounted for
the largest share of DPB's milk sales, reaching a peak of 76 percent in
1976. Although the subsidy was discontinued in 1971, demand has continued
to greatly exceed supply as urban milk consumption continued to rise and
production of reconstituted milk declined sharply due to foreign exchange
shortages. At the same time fresh milk sales also decreased (para. 19).
27.       Like other agricultural commodities, the Government sets producer
and retail prices of milk sold in the "formal" market. In the past, the
official producer price usually was as much as 20-40 percent below the "in-
formal" market price. Earlier this year, however, the Government increased
producer and retail prices of milk substantially. The producer price of
fresh milk, which increased about 52 percent since February 1981, is to
rise another 13 percent from January 1982. These increases have more than
equalized the "informal" and "formal" market prices. Similarly, the retail
price of fresh milk, which increased 13 percent this year, will go up
another 25 percent in January 1982, and that of reconstituted milk by over
37 percent.   To ensure adequate producer incentives and a profit for DPB,
the Government will continue its current annual review of milk prices, tak-
ing into account the cost of production, processing and distribution. It
will exchange views with the Association on pricing policies from time to
time (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.03).
3 While most of NAMB marketing responsibilities have been assign-
ed to SPCMU, NAMB continues to be responsible for importing most supplies.
SPCMUYs input storage would be improved and expanded under the proposed
Southern Province Agricultural Development Project.



-9-
Dairy Produce Board
28.       DPB, established in 1964, operates two major processing plants:
one, with a capacity of 12,000 liters per hour, in Lusaka and the other
(with 8,000 liters per hour) in Kitwe. Both plants were established in the
early seventies, when DPB's output was expanding as large volumes of ingre-
dients for reconstituting milk were imported. As foreign exchange restric-
tions reduced imports, however, DPB's output declined rapidly -- during the
past three years, the Lusaka factory operated at only a third and Kitwe 60
percent of capacity -- so that DPB has operated at a loss since 1977. How-
ever, the increases in prices (para. 27), planned improvements in plant op-
eration, reduction in labor force and easing of import restrictions on re-
constituted milk ingredients and milk by-products should restore DPB-s
profitability.
Zambia Agricultural Development Limited
29.       ZADL, which manages 14 beef and 10 dairy ranches, has been adver-
sely affected by the loss of key managerial staff to the private sector.
Although the Chisamba beef ranch (para. 25) has turned a modest profit for
several years, maintenance of buildings and fencing and pasture improve-
ments have been neglected. The ranch will be converted to heifer breeding
and be managed by the Project Management Unit (PMU) (para. 34(e)).
Bank Group Experience
30.       The Bank in 1969 made a loan (No. 627-ZA) of US$2.5 million to
develop ten existing state beef ranches and one dairy ranch, establish two
new beef and four dairy ranches and supply management and consultancy
services. Technical problems, particularly the location of the existing
ranches, poor management, inadequate prices of beef and milk and high
prices of inputs due to restrictions on imports from South Africa and
Angola, seriously constrained project implementation. The loan was
cancelled in 1974 at the request of the Government and a Project
Performance Audit Report issued in November, 1976. A followup project also
was found to be unsuitable for Bank financing because of weaknesses in its
design which included (i) the need to recruit at least 40 expatriate
managers and technical officers, (ii) tenants with very little livestock
experience and no formal training and (iii) unavailability of commercial
farmers in the numbers envisaged.
31.       The Bank Group also made two loans for tobacco, a credit for cof-
fee production and a loan approved recently for agricultural development in
the Eastern Province, and is considering a credit for agricultural develop-
ment in the Southern Province. The tobacco projects have been completed,
but did not achieve their objectives, mainly because of poor management,
inadequate producer prices and poorly trained farmers. A Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR) on the first tobacco project (Loan No.
685-ZA) was issued in June 1979 and a PPAR is being prepared on the second
project (Loan No. 882-ZA). While the coffee project is making good
physical progress, cost overruns are a problem.  The loan for the Eastern
Province Agricultural Development Project is not yet effective. Besides
financing, the Bank also has assisted the Government by doing an extensive



- 10 -
rural and agricultural sector survey, project identification and studies of
agricultural pricing, marketing, credit and budgeting for recurrent
expenditures. The identification study led to the preparation of several
projects, including the proposed project, as well as the Eastern Province
and Southern Province Agricultural Development Projects. The pricing study
has contributed to improving producer incentives, and as a result of the
recurrent budget study, the Government has undertaken to review the
Ministry of Agriculture's planning and implementation capabilities and
budget allocation for agricultural services. The Bank's future sector work
program includes further studies of agricultural pricing, subsidies and
export promotion.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.       A Bank mission identified the Smallholder Dairy Development Proj-
ect in October 1978 and the FAQ/World Bank Cooperative Program assisted the
Government in preparation, which was completed in September, 1980. The
project was appraised in February, 1981 and negotiated in Washington in
September, 1981. The Zambian delegation was led by Mr. N. Magande, Senior
Under Secretary (Budget), Ministry of Finance. Annex III contains supple-
mentary project data.
Project Rationale
33.       The proposed project is based on the great development potential
of smallholder dairy farming and better project design, which utilizes les-
sons learnt from past projects. Smallholder dairy farming is important to
the diversification of Zambia's economy which, as explained earlier, is es-
sential to the country-s future. While recent increases in prices should
stimulate production by large commercial farmers, the best potential in the
longer term lies with the smallholder sector. However, changing tradition-
al methods of production is inherently risky, and a number of schemes have
failed due, in many cases, to too broad dispersal of producer groups and
unreliable milk collection services. To address these potential problems
and because of the uncertainty about the number and responsiveness of par-
ticipating farmers, the proposed project has been designed as a limited
two-phase operation which would concentrate on a relatively small area
which enjoys a cattle farming tradition. The first phase would include
the districts of Monze and Mazabuka in the Southern Province. Extending
the project to Kabwe District in the Central Province (the second phase)
would depend on satisfactory farmer participation in the first phase, as
assessed in a mid-term review (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.02(b)).
Project Description
34.       The project, over six years, will expand smallholders' milk out-
put and sale in the Southern and Central Provinces by establishing a depen-
dable milk collection service; intensifying extension, training, animal
health and credit services; and providing crossbred dairy cattle.



- 11 -
(a) Milk Collection Services. With project funds, DPB
would establish a milk collection system, by con-
structing 25-30 milk depots and two milk cooling
centers; purchasing milk collection trucks; and
employing staff, including a transport manager, to
establish and operate the scheme.   Funds would
also be provided for repairing, in coordination
with district road maintenance authorities, bad
spots in collection roads, as well as for vehicle
operating and maintenance costs. DPB would under-
take to purchase all milk of acceptable quality
delivered to collection depots at agreed times.
(b) Animal Husbandry Extension and Veterinary Ser-
vices. Animal husbandry and veterinary field
staff training would be integrated and coordinated
at the Palabana Dairy Training Center and addi-
tional agricultural and veterinary field staff,
three expatriate volunteer officers, housing,
equipment, vehicles, vaccines and chemicals would
be supplied. At least 12 additional agricultural
assistants, who would receive specialized training
in dairy husbandry, and six additional veterinary
assistants would be posted to the project area in
the first year (draft Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 3.10). The Government will ensure
that activities of the agricultural and veterinary
staff are properly coordinated and integrated
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section,
3.11). Participating farmers will receive
specialized training at the Farmer Training
Centers. In the Mazabuka and Monze Districts,
this project would supplement the Southern
Province Agricultural Development Project (para.
31).
Smallholder Credit. The Government will lend
project funds to CFC for relending in kind to par-
ticipating dairy producers: (i) about 600 pro-
gressive farmers for purchasing five crossbred
heifers and a bull each, constructing fencing,
milking sheds, feeding facilities and procuring
basic animal health equipment; and (ii) 1,200 more
traditional farmers for purchasing one crossbred
bull each for upgrading their traditional cattle,
constructing milking sheds and purchasing simple
animal health equipment. Additional staff, office
accommodation and equipment, vehicles and operat-
ing funds for credit administration and supervi-
sion would also be provided to CFC. DPB will en-
sure repayments to CFC from the first group of



- 12 -
farmers by making deductions from DPB-s monthly
payments to the farmers for milk purchases from
them. Borrowers in the second group will repay
CFC directly.
(d) Heifer Farm Development and Production. The
Chisamba Ranch, owned by ZADL, will be improved
and expanded for the production of crossbred heif-
ers and bulls. In addition to improvements in the
ranch's infrastructure, the project will finance a
ranch manager, vehicles, tractors, equipment and
staff housing. ZADL will retain ownership, but
the Project Management Unit will be responsible
for the ranch through a manager who it will ap-
point (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.09).
(e) Project Management Unit. An internationally re-
cruited project manager, a financial controller
and local supporting staff, will be set up in
MAWD's Department of Agriculture to execute the
project (draft Development Credit Agreement, Sec-
tion 3.04).
Project Cost and Financing
35.       Based on January 1982 prices, costs are estimated at US$11.7 mil-
lion (including US$0.2 million in taxes and duties), of which US$4.2 mil-
lion (36 percent) is in foreign exchange. These include (i) physical con-
tingencies of 10 percent for vehicle and equipment purchases and construc-
tion works; (ii) contingencies for price escalation in the foreign costs of
vehicles, equipment and internationally-recruited staff of 9 percent in
1981, 8.5 percent in 1982, 7.5 percent in 1983-85 and 6 percent thereafter;
and (iii) contingencies for a 12 percent annual increase in local expendi-
tures throughout the project period. Costs include incremental operating
expenses of all services during the project's six-year development period,
plus the operating expenses of the Chisamba Ranch for a three-year develop-
ment period. Technical assistance (72 man-months each for the financial
controller and project manager and 60 man-months for the ranch manager)
totals 204 man-months, costing US$1.25 million, or US$6,100 per man-month.
36.       The proposed US$7.5 million IDA credit would cover all of the
US$4.2 million foreign costs and US$3.3 million of local costs, or about 65
percent of the net total. Participating farmers would contribute US$0.6
million equivalent in on-farm investments (excluding farm labor value).
The Government would provide the remaining US$3.4 million.
37.       IDA and Government funds for extension, veterinary services, pro-
ject management, spot road repair and water supply will be paid by the Per-
manent Secretary, MAWD, into an advance account to be established in the



- 13 -
Bank of Zambia. PMU will control the account, allocating funds to the
district officers of government implementing agencies. The Government will
deposit funds into the account at the beginning of each quarter (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05). Establishing the advance
account and making the initial deposit by the Government would be a
condition of effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
6.01(d)).
Relending Terms
38.       Funds for developing the heifer breeding farm would be lent by
the Government to ZADL at 11 percent per annum rate of interest, repayable
in 15 years, including three years of grace. The execution of a satisfac-
tory Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and ZADL would be a
condition of effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
6.01(a)).
39.       The Government would lend funds for farm credit and credit admin-
istration to CFC for 20 years, including five years of grace, at an inter-
est rate of not less than five percent per annum. CFC would relend the
funds to dairy farmers at an interest rate of 11 percent per annum, giving
CFC a spread of six percent which is considered sufficient to cover its
credit administration costs, provide for bad debts and a reasonable in-
come. The execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and CFC would be a condition of effectiveness (draft De-
velopment Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(c)).
40.       Since with the project, CFC will be required to extend credit to
a much larger number of farmers in more dispersed groups than at present,
it will run higher risks and increased administrative costs which likely
will reduce its profitability. However, CFC is expected to be replaced by
ZADB in 1982 (para.23), so that it would not be appropriate to require CFC
to be profitable in the long-term. However, agreement has already been
reached under the Eastern Province and Southern Province Agricultural De-
velopment Projects that ZADB should revise its interest rates and other
fees by March 31, 1984 with a view to generating a reasonable net income
after covering its operating and borrowing costs and a reserve for bad
debts. In the circumstances, the proposed CFC's borrowing rate of 5 per-
cent per annum and the 11 percent per annum interest rate for onlending to
dairy farmers are considered appropriate. Furthermore, assurances were ob-
tained during negotiations that, until it is replaced by ZADB, CFC will
maintain a spread on its lending rates that will generate adequate revenues
to cover its debts, operating costs, a reserve for bad debts and a reason-
able net income (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.03).
41.       Financing for the milk collection service would be in the form of
a loan from the Government to DPB for 20 years, including eight years of
grace, with interest at 11 percent per annum capitalized during the grace
period. The execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and DPB would be a condition of effectiveness (draft De-
velopment Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(b)). The justification for the



- 14 -
long grace period and capitalization of interest is based on the large in-
frastructural investment required to develop the collection service which
is not expected to break-even until the eighth year of operations. Relend-
ing to DPB on concessional terms during the project's development period is
necessary to enable DPB to operate the milk collection service without in-
curring serious operating losses.
Project Implementation
42.       A Project Steering Committee, consisting of the Directors of
Agriculture and Veterinary Services and Tsetse Control and MAWD's Planning
Unit and the General Managers of CFC, DPB and ZADL, under the chairmanship
of the Permanent Secretary of MAWD, would be responsible overall for the
project. PMU will be responsible for day-to-day project operations. The ap-
pointment of the project manager would be a condition of effectiveness
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(e)). Apart from adminis-
tering the project advance account and allocating funds to district of-
ficers, PMU will be responsible for coordinating the activities of all im-
plementing agencies, including consolidating quarterly and annual work pro-
grams and budgets; preparing schedules of input requirements and ensuring
their purchase; and monitoring the project's physical and financial pro-
gress and preparing reports for the Steering Committee.
Marketing
43.       DPB, through the proposed milk collection service, will market
the additional milk produced in the project, agreeing with project farmers
to purchase all milk of acceptable quality delivered to depots along the
collection routes. Production from the Monze and Mazabuka Districts would
be processed at the Mazabuka plant, which DPB plans to install with Danish
assistance in 1981. Kabwe District output would be processed at the Lusaka
plant. The latter's capacity is adequate to handle the entire project out-
put in the event the Mazabuka plant's startup is delayed. Additional
carcass meat produced in the project (less than 5 percent of presen mar-
keted supply) would be readily absorbed on the local market. Most cattle
for slaughter would be marketed through commercial channels (private butch-
ers( who have adequate capacity for the additional slaughtering and proces-
sing anticipated.
Monitoring and Evaluation
44.       MAWD's Planning Unit will monitor and evaluate the project's exe-
cution, which is particularly important in view of the phased design and
the implementation of the second phase depending upon satisfactory progress
on the first phase (para. 33). Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that a mid-term review would be carried out jointly by the Associa-
tion and the Government in the third project year to determine the number
of participating smallholders and the pattern of milk production, and ana-
lyse other factors affecting the milk industry, such as production, proces-
sing, pricing, marketing and consumer demand (draft Development Credit



- 15 -
Agreement, Section 3.02). Within six months of the completion of disburse-
ments, the Government would prepare and submit to IDA a Project Completion
Report, analyzing the project's implementation and impact in relation to
its objectives (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07(d)).
Procurement
45.       Contracts of US$100,000 or more for the purchase of vehicles,
spare parts, machinery, equipment and supplies, which are expected to be
about US$0.8 million in aggregate, would be awarded in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines on International Competitive Bidding. Domestic manu-
facturers would be granted a preferential margin of 15 percent, or the ex-
isting rate of duty whichever is lower. Purchases of vehicles, machinery,
equipment and supplies costing less than US$100,000 would be based on local
competitive bidding in accordance with government procedures which are
acceptable to IDA. Cattle for the Chisamba ranch, expected to cost US$0.6
million, would be purchased at regularly scheduled public sales in the
countries adjacent to Zambia. Any additional purchases required would be
made from other suitable sources after advertising. Since civil works
(mainly buildings, water supplies, road maintenance, land clearing and
pasture improvements), which are expected to aggregate about US$1.4
million, would be too small and scattered to attract international
interest, work would be accomplished by awarding contracts based on local
competitive bidding (in which foreign firms could compete), or by force ac-
count. The selection of technical assistance staff (US$1.2 million) would
be in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
Disbursements
46.       Disbursements of funds from the credit would be on the following
basis:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80
percent of local expenditures for vehicles,
spare parts, equipment and materials;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80
percent of local expenditures for operating
costs of vehicles, machinery, veterinary
supplies and materials;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
breeding stock for Chisamba Ranch;
(d) 100 percentof foreign expenditures for tech-
nical assistance;
(e) 80 percent of farm credit disbursements;
(f) 70 percent of the total cost of civil works.



- 16 -
Disbursements would be fully documented, except for civil works by force
acccount, smallholder credit, vehicle and machinery operating costs, and
local costs of veterinary supplies and materials which would be on the
basis of certificates of expenditure signed by the heads of the respective
implementing agencies.
Accounting and Auditing
47.       Separate accounts for project expenditures would be kept by the
PMU and each of the three enterprises (CFC, DPB and ZADL), audited by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association and submitted to the Associ-
ation within six months of the end of each financial year (draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, Section 4.01). The three enterprises currently pro-
duce their audited accounts within this time. The auditors would specifi-
cally review and comment on procedures for control of disbursements against
certificates of expenditure.
Project Benefits
48.       The direct beneficiaries of the investments in the project would
be 1,700 to 1,800 participating small-farm families -- approximately 11,000
persons, or close to 25 percent of the project area's population. It is
expected that a part of the increased milk and meat production would remain
in the area, providing a year-round source of animal protein currently not
readily available to rural and small town dwellers. By introducing cross-
bred cattle and improving their traditional herds, it is estimated that the
net annual income of a typical progressive farmer would increase from K 436
to K 1,089 by project year five and the net incremental return would reach
K 2,027 after debt repayment in year nine. The traditional farmer's net
annual incremental return is expected to reach K 323 by project year five
and K 804 at full development. A major unquantifiable benefit would be the
low-cost dairy development strategy, with smallholders as the target group,
which is expected to provide a sound basis for further development of the
sub-sector. Other unquantifiable benefits would result from improved ex-
tension and credit services and production of crossbred cattle which would
benefit farmers outside as well as within the target group.
Economic Rate of Return
49.       With a life of 20 years, the project-s economic rate of return on
all capital costs, net of taxes (but including 10 percent physical contin-
gencies, and incremental recurrent costs), is estimated at 17 percent.
Both costs and benefits have been valued at the shadow exchange rate of
K 0.98 to US$1.00 instead of the official rate of K 0.80 to US$1.00, while
incremental farm labor has been shadow-priced at 50 percent of the prevail-
ing minimum wage rate to reflect the general under-employment of farm labor
in the project area. In order for the project's net present value to drop
below zero, using a discount rate of 12 percent, estimated costs would have
to increase by about 37 percent, or benefits fall by 32 percent. Either
development is unlikely; nevertheless, steps have been taken to minimize



- 17 -
the risk that sufficient benefits would not materialize to make the project
economic.
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact
50.       The Government would recover about 50 percent of total project
costs through loan repayments by DPB, CFC and ZADL. Although extension
services would be provided free of cost, project beneficiaries would pay
prices reflecting the full cost of livestock, equipment, seed and chemicals
and would obtain credit at only slightly subsidized rates. The project
would not increase directly-generated revenues to the Government since
there are no taxes or cesses levied on agricultural production. However,
higher incomes are expected to lead to increased spending by beneficiaries
on taxable consumer goods and thereby increase indirect tax revenues. The
development of animal husbandry and veterinary services would require a
long-term government commitment to provide staff and operating resources.
The incremental annual recurrent cost of these services is estimated at
K 72,000 by the sixth project year (in 1980 prices), or 0.3 percent of the
1980 recurrent budget of the Ministry of Agriculture (excluding subsidies).
Risks
51.       The major risks center on the possibility that farmers would not
successfully implement the proposed technical packages and on the number of
participating farmers falling short of the levels needed to attain the pro-
jected production levels. To minimize the first risks, it is planned to
intensify extension and veterinary services in the project area. Regarding
the number of participating farmers, the results of a survey carried out by
the Government indicate that a sufficient number of smallholders are in-
terested in participating in the project. In addition, the phased imple-
mentation of the project would permit the concentration of management sup-
port during the development period of both phases of the project. Further-
more, the present farmgate price for milk provides an attractive incentive,
as does the prospect of a year-round cash flow from milk sales. The proj-
ect is not expected to have any adverse environmental effects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zambia and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Associ-
ation and ZADL, DPB and CFC and the Recommendation of the Committee provid-
ed for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Asso-
ciation are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
53.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Annex III of this
report. Conditions of effectiveness would include (a) the execution of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Government and DPB, CFC and ZADL
respectively; (b) the establishment of the advance account to be used by



- 18 -
PMU and the deposit of the initial amount; and (c) the appointment of the
project manager (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01).
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
By
Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 20, 1981



-19-                                            ANNEX I
tABLE 1A                                                Page 1  of  5
ZAMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAMDIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEI ACES
LANU AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - tOST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL             752.b                                    MUST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDOLE INCOME
AL6KRIULTUKAL     35O.6                1960  /b    1970 L  ESTIMATE Lb   AFRICA SOUTII UF SAHARA  LAIIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
ONF PER CAPItA ( 5$)                    *0U.0        340.0      556.0                   794.2                    1616.2
tMEKGY CONSUtPIllON PER LAPYIA
(RILOALIIs' OUt LAL LqUIVALENT)          ..        723.7      858.2                  707.5                    1324.1
POPULAILON At4l VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MIU-YLAK (THOUSANUS)  32U0.0          4242.0    5766.0
UKtAN POPULAIION  (PEKCENT UF TOTAL) 23.1           30.0       37.2                   27.7                       64.2
POPULAIlON PROJElTIUNS
POPULAIION IN YEAR 20UU  (MILLIONS)                          11.0
blAIlUWLAKY PUPULAIION  (tILLIONS)                           31.0
YEAK STATIONARY PUPULATIUN IS KEACHED                      2125
PUPFULATIlN oEWSl'TY
PEK Sq. KtM.                          4.3. '           5.6    7 4                   55.0'                     34.3
YLK Su,. Ml. AGRICULTURAL LAND        9.2         12.1       15.4                  130.7                      94.5
PUPULATION AGE SIKUCTURE (PEKCENT)
U-14 YKS.                            45.0         46.1       47.1                   46.0                      40.7
15-b4 YKS.                           52.5          51.4       50.3                   51.2                      55.3
bt YKS. ANU ABOVE                      2.5          2.5        2.6                    2.8                       4.0
POPULAllON GyoWTl RATE (PEKCENT)
TUOAL                                 2.4          2.8        3.0                    2.8                       2.4
URSiAtl                               5.3          5.4        5.5                    5.1                       3.7
CRUDE 61IH hRAIt  (PEK THOUSAND)       5U.5         49.6       49.1                   46.9                      31.4
CKUu; EAIH KAItL (PER THOUSAND)        24.2         19.9       16.6                   15.8                       8.4
GROSS RttPKDUCTIUN KATE                 3.4          3.4        3.4                    3.2                       2.3
FAtIILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOKS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..
USEKS (PCFElNt OF MASKIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
OOUD AND NJTRITION
IZOER uF FOuU PRODUCTION
PEK CAPIIA (1969-71-100)            99.0          95.0       92.0                   89.9                     108.3
PEK CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PEKCENI OF
REuUIRt'MENTS)                    79.0          84.0       87.0                   92.3                     107.6
PRYoEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            54.0          56.0       56.0                   52.8                      65.8
oF WHICH ANIltAL AND PULSE         13.0         16.0       14.0              1' 6.1                         34.0
CHILU (AGES 1-4) UBOJIALITY RATE       36.1         28.4       21.9                   20.2                       7.6
ALLITN
LIFE EXPECTANCY A  BIRTIH (YEARS)    40.0           44.9       49.3                   50.8                      64.1
INFANI MUkIALItY RATE (PER
TlUU.lUbNV)                              ..        144.0         ..                     ..                      70.9
ACGESb TU SAFE WATEt (PERCENT UF
euPULArIoN)
lOTAL                                  ..         37.0       42.0                   27.4                      65.7
URBAN                                  ..         70.0       86.0                   74.3                      79.7
RUKAL                                  ..         22.0       16.0                   12.6                      43.9
ACLESS TU EXLKETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
uF PUPULAIOUN)
TOTAL                                  ..         16.0       42.0                     ..                      59.9
URHAN                                             12.0       87.0                     *-                      75.7
RURAL                                  ..         18.0       16.0                     ..                      30.4
POPULATIUN PEK PHYSICIAN            9544.6        8288.4   10191.0                 13844.1                    1728.2
POPULATIuN PER NURSING PERSUN       9915.0/c    2479.0    1931.0                    2898.6                    1288.2
POPULArlON PER HOSPITAL RED
TUIAL                               343.0Lc      311.3      269.6                 1028.4                     471.2
URBAN                               181.0Lc         ..      332.8                  423.0                     558.0
KURAL                              468.0/c          ..      258.3                3543.2
ADNI1:luNS PtR HUSPITAL BEU              ..           ..       31.0
tOUUSINL
AVERtAGE SIZL OF HuUSEHuLD
TUTAL                                  ..          4.4
UKRAN                                  ..           ..
KUKAL                                  ..           ..        4.6
AVLkAGE NUMBLL  oF PERSONS PEK RGuM
luTAL                                  ..          2.6
UKRAN                                  ..          2.6
l(UNAL                                 ..          2.6
AC(CESS l0 LlCtCIrllIFY  (PEtrENT
ut UWLI:.NLS)
LoIAL                                  ..          ..
UKtAN                                27.5           ..
RUKAL                                  ..           ..



-20-                                           ANNEX I
Pa. _ of 5
TABLF 3A
ZAMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SIIEET
ZAMBIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEYGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA A CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT JIATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  42.0         91.0       98.0                 .73.7                      101.7
MALE                  51.0        101.0      106.0                   96.8                     103.0
FEMALE                34.0         80.0       89.0                   79.0                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0         13.0       16.0                   16.2                      35.3
MALE                   3.0         18.0       21:0                   25.3                      34.9
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0       11.0                   14.8                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  28.0            3.0        3.0                    5.3                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACBER RATIO
PRINARY                             50.0       - 47.0       48.0                   36.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                           14.0         21.0   t  21.0                    23.6                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY XATE (PERCENT)         28.5/c       47.3       44.0 -                                           80.0
lONSUtLiPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
PuPULATION                          11.0         14.3       18.5                  32.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.0         17.7       22.0                  69.0                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                        4.0        4.9                   8.0                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    7.0         13.4       19.9                   20.2                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                                                   0.7                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LAEOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1322.1       1653.4    2043.6
FEPALE (PERCENT)                    33.2         32.6       32.0                  36.7                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               79.0         73.0       67.7                   56.6                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   7.0          9.0       10.8                  17.5                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 41.2         39.0       36.6                   37.2                      31.8
MALE                                  55.3         52.9       50.1                   47.1                      49.0
F1EnALE                               27.3         25.2       23.3                   27.5                      14.6
ECON%iIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.2        1.4                    1.3                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEIIOLDS   33.7                     23 23.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  58.2                      63.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.4                       3 3.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0                      10.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLLTE PUVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                              ..      247.0                 381.2
RURAL                                  .           ..      168.0                 156.2                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                               .      126.0                 334.3                     513.9
RURAL                                                       85.0                 137.6                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IhCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                               .       25.0
RURAL                                 .....
Not available
Not applIcable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and Is not unifom.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimtae, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1963.
h    1980 estlmates.
May, 1981



- 21                                                AME~~~~4i~X  1I__
!Mla 3of 5
btPtfTLOOSt of bOCtAL tisbiCAyOeO
etm..  Although the date are d-e.  fIo. ....... ge.ts.Iily Jod.dteot   hortit.ti- . ed -oiable. It oh-Ild  l-14.0 hnoted Cha  cha  may  on bo Inta-
gantoenlyanaprabls  .c....  of thelack o  at.ndtdia.ddsflnitone 00  concet. coe  by O4fI.eo...ontrby    in clluctiI  lbs dta.  T6  data.re..e.
tbsice.  ..flt  deeob    res               aold,indic-te t-ed.,. ad uh ...ct-ri.  -Certin  -J.o  diff.   be .tw.-    co-                 i.
Tb. *O*tCOiSire   (I  the Ba. coutry IroP of ith  bo)sot noutcy ..d (21 . country grop with goa thigebr  -nrog   i-cin  thou thecunr  grop
nf the eohject  ouotry  (aucept  or  Cootiel Suryo.il tt cr." gronpuhor-  friddln tnoe  North Afrl.. ttd Kiddle tiet' 1. Ch.-u  b--a.e  of  -tuogot
oIo-cltrl ...      eitaeI WWI  n th.  !rree grouP datethu  rrge   Pr - popoeio. ..lght.d urlth-eic  Buone for ..ach indioutt I   d eho-   nly A-er
meen tpo  the  onre   do oph. dt. for rhoc i.dicor.    Sit.   h., coerg  of  ... ttr'iS S  the indic-tor.. dep.sd4  us the   . a ibiility of doIe
edIs not ooft.  atono teoootlaed in Ib1ati.     - A.of on.idIcator tonoher.  T                                     .       toe rol.l.u...  i.I, cueparieg thu t-lus of
Os Lod ct.aetisOogte  oatysd -ss--o  grop..
LAXD AME  (thousand  q.k.h.)                                                                       P.-ico   a  foptltd -tnl   re.adrrl-Ppita    lni
tota  - lcal  urf ce  rco omPrIiei,g Ird er.a andloed  tr,uban, and -rra) divisdby thi-ttaotn   cm of ci . haettL hat
enise   Itr. *  aIkt end  ittch.. gurdon. 0r to Iit  faiua  1976 date.                 habilt inns canner..toPIte are eechilrt    -nIaott                        ld
by at leeNt onuapVyiotin.  tE-tahiet .mt  Pr...idi.  prtncip..iy rst
WIPPE  CPIT  (tS   -OW   otosit  seten.  .tourertmarucp7 oc.)  001-                 dtil tare one eat te-ldad.  tonal hoepit.l.. ho-er, ioold. baoith
1oia0.   byee o.otneto   0Ordtobhls(977    el)   90 d 19sd9odt tenrr  rot p.r-.otly  etefed by    phyalti.e  (hot by
1970. end 1919 deta.                                                      au~~~.d Pra  aeinat.  -.re.    tdaft. eta.) whit  ufff. ta-patien   aU.-
datteed pr-id  aIiiatsd rang. of eadll   reit,J.e.   Poett.
lits.                                                                                           dmi""tte potficepialdto     -       .tloubro  sd t.e 1-r to ur ioobrge
from hospital. dioid.d by the nuahar of bd..
POyIILATIO9 AND0 VITA. STATISTICS
Tatal PcPula.tiaq_Ajid-Snor  0toeo        - Ae of July 1; 1960, 1970,..ed 1979                HIOU.SING
dta.                                                                                          Srti   to. of itunod loereor !tRsr  uaeo     tal.ubao  . ad r.ana -
Urba   ooait   rno.ofotl   ?- td. of u-bon to tutel pcpulanion;                                    A ho.. ehoLd  -ooi.te  f   aop of irdivtdldui  sh thrn living  -tooer
diffneratdsliitcoo  ofurhioreee no affect ... Pa-bility of dana                          ad their gain  -.l..  A b ... dor or lodg.r say or may non be teuladd Ia
_mog IOcuetita; 190      a97    o.d 1979 fdt.                 -                                  t           Iehoeud tot eta,tIetclpapun
Po  m_ o   rlclh..                                                                           rri   obro   otn   rero I               Itutu, urban  . 0  tr..   - ho-rgs  an
PTInltioo I0  earlOl  - Crotppuolopujci                         t  b .eed t-1990                 bro ofpreo  pro ocue loei o.    and....         ...a  Ocuidcsrsio
tota  population by ugo and enu out thnlo no-tlity a-d fe-tility raine.                       d-ol.lig., -epeonto-ly.  Dluelliog   oacade non-p.rmagar.t  tou run    ad
ProJnoniuo. at.ater   o   oralc  cteccnp.           e  of lIre. la-1l  etau-                  unoooind port..
ltg life  oprotoncy atbrh..n.o 01   oorepn opt   nrtAcs  to flottni is,  !orEo  cf :droelin) - tota. orba   ed-oe..  -
I.va,  an .d f-1al  lifarpcsoyeaiir   t7.  y:.are.  Thn Pe.-                                  Cnnretionai  ,IL d.ni hige   e     letrioity 10 living q_mren  a. Potoeetau
mentos for fertility r.tn aIe. he-. tbr.e 100.10aea;  dtlioe1                                 of  ot l,uban, and roa  dwlln.            rIep-oi-nly.
fortility cocordicgt.c  oo.  lon, "I4 Poet f anily pi.-Cc_n Prcfor,,c
&.ch oouory I. Cht ..o..igntd uoe of l rth   firt ooabi..,ioo   of mortaliy               EIIUCATTON
.nd foocility tnsnde fur projecol   potp..o.                                                Adlete  fouleen  toio
Stationary autlarioo-Iooeto  icoary popultico  bthre Ie 00 gr-th alort              yr-r cho      et          ,a aId fees-ins  ou,elnedIml
thu birth rstn leqalt  tho .        t  ras.ao  lsh0h  egn etruocrs   -                            noll_rat of all agoe an the p=mayIrrl e   o nan  of ...epativ
sainotoan -fle  a  choos  olythr  nrilO   rce  feolis toPrieury erool-a                                            - popcurone   oas y catutdes rbildne  agd b..ll
tho r-pecn=o  leo   of ..it -tte.produutiototr.  b.. each geosrtiun                              yea.-  bn-  adloatd fordil f-ret IenStha of pta-oy eduction; for
of woooc tploor  itest tuotly.rh.  -tatoayppuoinao t            taconritn wit  oeinei,.                                eduttien ooo.ea sy   -Aas  lOt P...-.
ettmud00tin basso   h   rjctdcnacrlc                     f thei popl:tion                  sine. som   -oail' are bir  on   .-  tba oficial eohno  am.
in thn ynar 2000. and tbs nate of d-ulitt. of ftotilityratnt.   taica                          oceer chool - total  eLo a               -dInna- Computed .. ahoy; ea dsay,
-oo  I-el.                                                                                       adoontLon raqilt*. ec ieue  four yn.t  ofapprovd prinary   aceeim
Tear ot-toty p.plolti.t I. rneohri - Tb. yea   h..0 nlt.ti-     population                         Pt-itd.. gnnero. on-tloe-1. or teaaIhII triing Lentrtioma fo anpapik
ele  o  hnocbhd.                                                                         ....ally of 12 to 17 y-at  of ago; nnnPs-d-u  co..e . re .-           ear-ll
ittain   raC                                                                                 aldsd.
Per a. ha.   M fid-yea   uulto   pnt eqoor. kiloat.. 1100bctrs  of                                                       (v  Soe  oa atlaatioont o  eondry     lftionl. letitutie
totl 00.; lhI  1970 .od 1979 dot..                                                               tald   uhiel   totil   ortherP- prgrn  rfnihWuaesl                         od
ere .heaIricl-Itr   lau Id - Cuptl,ulsdaeoo-  for ariulorl  ad                               Otly or en dapercaono   nodt   ettco
oaly; 1960. 1970 uod 197t  aa                                                                 Punil-t ...h., tsti 'L        onary.odecod     - T-n1 sCdant  -rLa  to
,pornlattoc hOt lru-ueiocnt    Children (0-14. y-ae.)   -krln.-tgo  (15-                             priaary od recodary 1-1el  dioidod by  -.ha-  of t-arba L. Lobth
6.yas)*od retirnd (65 y.... ..od ...er) ea pato...t.gon of old-year popo-                    oot..podte  level..
latiu; 190. 191. od1979daa                                                                Adul.,1t  ...ray-tt   nret) -ti ..f tere .1tadln  (ebie te oad ad  -rits)
Panulatot Groth Out l -orc tti- cta  - A..Inl gr-th  ateof total sid-                         Iepnetg    fttlaotppuainae   5,aea    vn
ysa   p.picin   for 110-6. I91- 71, a-d 1970- 79.
Mow.to Gr= t in to iproc ...  .ru .       -    -AIuu  growth rotsa of Crben pap.-          CO9SUifl"I0U
lotion. foe 1950-l0. 1960-71, end 1970-79.                                                    Psee..... rCare (Der tbouo.td tooul:ti"s      eaaa   -are o.Wfes inn
Crodn  lrtb Rtun  (one thoce-od  - inouo1 lIon births per thousand of mid-ya..                     our   eatiag Inca nh.,tight paoeoe; nolad.  aebeo.noso  haane  ad
popolati.o; 1960. 1970,. ad 1979 data.                                                          illiteryo_hi.l.oe,
C."d. Deeth _tot  I pu  th-u...nd  - OuC-l dauthe Pot thnue-de of sld-y-u                       tUdlo 3.-ei-ora  p etnhu,-ad apolatlon   - All typo. uf r-o -er  for raI.
opaie;1960, 1970. aod 19 79 deto.                                                         Ioaga. g  garipublic rst thswosd of Popaictisol eacodn 
GosgpoCt -ottat -horas   -obt,ocf daogbtsrea. un.           w    ill hsainioaad rAuiosis in  roottiee   Lr. iny-r   h-nrgarni,o   ai
her norel -npro c_o poiud If she nupspi n.... poot-a_pVfii  f a-                                 aso  nei   ff.teo    data for  -eem  yere may not b.  .aboOl          -ea
Lility  _r;eelyflaYaoo uo .t. -ndiCt Ic 1960. 1970, .0d 1979                                    -otnutri.e eboishsd 11. ....ng.
LaI, 1y PloloAoceote.l Acrua.l (thoceordal-AialOnr   ftontr                                     O0tinafottusn    oosto                      TVroaot  n., breadous  to
ef hrb-oeto  duvare  oudno  -lnice  of c            ..Ional       P ...ly  ietin   prse.cnrlpoLIu                     thoooad   puaio   -nldnolioussed fTV   . rtinst
PeRIl yiacnlo  - lene   nreot of01-nriod no.i,) - Prooog  of  -arind                      L0cnni.  004 In years what..          itrto   of TV coa  cai  stnt
os   fcIld-buorlo, ag  (15-h4 ysaral who ue. birt-h-.fnol d-oMe   o ..sa.a  iruato I- o  thnaodpoootoe  -thoth-hPe_ avers  -1--
all --rird wo-   laso   use st..op.                                                             oulationCof'di I       eea   noetnoPst'.  dolad  snPooLodl-aI
P.blk.inntn  deontad pra-ily Cat ssdit  snrL.es. i   is -oido..ed
MM AND SIUITION                                                                                      no he "dailyn if itapae atlanfariea                        ri
lod4n of Pood n-dotn P!0 Copite (1969-71-1001  - 10d.  of par c.pita   -Juu                      Clam   oolAtnaC   o    alsnr ler - hand a  th. n.b.o  of
Prooto  of alfce  cI adtlr.  Padotl..a..lod.. eend and fond nd..                                tibn   od.drn  tnyar   nltda  aoei e. to drIve-In alow
1*.en etleder y-a  bonis.  tuOsditita covr priloay godn (e.g.  uger-a                           and gabil  sit..
Inonead of  ogo  snIoh are edible .04 c-euon- rine  eg.cI                fa  0
ten aro  -old.d).  Aggrejet. pr-d-eiuc If auch l-ontoy is hosed:'. 00LAcIO  FORCE
L.h'iaean   rdcr  ro  slbe  1961-65.1970, eCd 197  data.                                  Total Labor Fotue (thuonsede)                      - osiolynt- poone. ilanieag
enr si-oalec  of  -e  food copplIn-  -vilubln IC  -Otiy p.rcPit.                         osnrio.    aalto   ofal  g                . bnctio-c  in  -ai-u  coontOlo. ore
pot day. Available eCPpli.e conorien denet   ptodoctin..  iap9t'a menrot=oeuoblu; 1960. 1970 and 1979 dai..
ertte  an   hon   t  toh         n   opia  old   rnlladIed,fcl  (orrt)  7-1yma   laher fooce se parcetage of  tot1 labor fo-o.
qe-titiaundi  food Ituca.aica. ood luearo Co diieooibti-t  tqiO                             haricoItluroinrrttt  - Lbe  forca 10 furish. far...try. hoOtfng end
aencenorsoetiaiodby FAO beund on phy[iulugicl:~. ond   o   Colee-fsiga   ecoo of tota  Ichr forC; 1960. 1970 and 1919 data.
andceodisribtio  ofpuputio  and aleno   10l Psr-not forwen   t                          ard slOct,ielt,y, wtradgea                 naso   oa   ne  f-roe;1966.
hounohold lCel; 19116, 1975. an  1977 fate.                                            1970 d0 1979 da.
Psr orine  coplyof rrtrir  aeoeopar dey  - POttcrta    fpt  aia                      ftnictatC   toeiere              -  -otal  -al., an  fnaai  - P.at1nipatIs,o
quinenots for all cutri.e aetebliehad by lSDl pro,id. fov ein=                                p-oontos.. of rtotl. nole and feel. ppolatioo ofalSga.- pnt_ioniy
alloaaso  of 60 str-  of tota  PCta it pe  doy "en   20non  of ano  co                        1960. 1970,..ad 1979 deto.  Thee. ... hee..d on IL:!.' Pootiiptgia   -.t
poles Pr:otoir, of othich 10 Stru    ehculd be  000  prutscC.  Tb.. e.os d-                   1eflatieg ae-as, etruotura of the population,. and begt itm   toad.  A
ardo -re boo  thao thoas of 75 ar-  of tola1 pltCtsO  and 21 gr-n  of                         ton .otimsteeaoe fot  gtin           unue
timal prtein. an an .-eesg  for thn word. propy...d by FAO in tha Thitd                     icoanl  Doredeno,igo- ai   f  onaio                       r13adt    edae
fforld Food Sor-yp; 1961-65. 1975 a-d 1977 date.                                              icth t total ho  frs..
P.enont  aroetn olo fere anisal an a4            e -  . Prot.lo aupply of fund de-
rndfrun  aiel. aod pu1... L. oSons p.r day;161-65. 1910 eod 1977 date.                 190f pSTIOTw
Child Isata 1- Ifrai  te(rrthoceand) -                   -Inoo - dah, poI thoc-n   in            Paroeo,tae   ofPOseIncun  (both in Ceab 04  id)-Esad    by nl.haat
ag   ro   -  r. tno childr.. ir thin age grup dIr   a   doiplng~ t0I_ ate.reot2   nen,pors   0posn    dpoat6   n
rIll.  d.ta feIred froe life tabinal 19h0  1970 ond 1979 dat,                                  of                                               -- oaP---o0da.-
WALTH                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P09181  TARTOT CtOUPSP
LItfe f.oeat,rra  teh(fy..-htsg    cbt   imre cf life nrmining                                   Tha fo11-n1 re8 as rea. truppro1ot.soeoua  of p-tay Iflor..
f.efut tot-Icott  (p., h..... d) -    oI death. of intent, unde  or  year                       tUrlau-h-d Abtoiute po,ttd ithoe  -r l101-bln -antal-          -uhna           e
of egr poe thotea1rd d(b..ht birob                                                                          L Ib.
hooee  o Sfe  etr (arntofpelttuo- total  Chs. ed rural  1-                                    AbooapOft ncs   ..1i   it  noe                   dr eo  which-t a  iL. et
or1 psopaeW(toe.Luha.  u tb- t-eli ahth r..thsae.   o fn iinly  "dquat. dint pl . ...ei..   no-od  eore.t1I   a
herdffrdebla.
osoroply(lcidn  tanease oc  afira00Coroo A  u  ucotointe               ieogandtaelo  Pvotofooa  Lvo  iifro  aptal-urtnandrra 
fou..tnain   of eihndpft ...io c-c-  none tint bc  -etee  rc  pe          l huaIa-epoaoltce  of th f-ot-y.  L1rban   letlic drtiud from  the ra-L
nonidead  s bin  aihinteoonhitocc..  f  hethoue.   orrolersc           lyI  imb nd30t_.oorfc  higho   utfiirgnobaaa.
do  tot heo  to epeo. .t     octL,aepcto   h   e  in-fdtc"'On   the                             pour'L   -.                                                         -
cra. t  f          -l ao,aId L7o.nOc, f                                                               -.1 .-t.o-of.cal,  tchsc  ebod  da... 
pnottn    of. tbt Ir. tnpc di.,p- rc,-%ahoot  rueh    di-foel erloind
an e ts-ato 'by ee-oteyte or the u..  of pit plioi.. ...d ata.                                                             oo  1l  Wseyl  aed.  Dt.lrio Oi        parsaet
.ed inane     -                                                          dii itO iota.                                                               rhee -1-1 -  m1t.
Poualopr Phy5i,1.eO- 4tplcl,   tuld.  by ouha ob           tecucr  phye1-My18
oio   ulif id f_    ..edieai  -.hc-  ecriso Ity -leI
Pou.lofcfr.cng P.,.,,.      cplalc  dinidad by ...sher of Pnectticig
eae  -Ct f-aei. gedut .    n.o..... P-ett-aoeea   and ..seietaotora



- 22 -                                   ^eI
- 22                        ~~~~~~~ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ZAPMBIA
Z00NOMIC INDICATORS
ORDSS NATUINAL PRODWUCT IN 1980 (preliminary)                  ANNUAL AVERAGE RATE OF GROWTH (Z, constant 1970 prices)
US$ Mln.                                   1965 - 74                       1974 - 80
GNP at Market Prices           3,569         100.0                             2.4                            -1.6
Gross Domestic Investment        811          23                               6.1                           -18.5
Gross National Saving            416          12                               5.7                           -20.2
Current Account Balance         -395         -11
Exports of Oooda, NFS          1,406          39                               2.1                            -3.4
Imports of Goods, NFS          1,512          42                               3.9                           -11.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980 (preliminary)
Value Added                    Labor Force-                     V. A. Per Worker
US$ min.       V                   filn.       %                     RUS 
Agriculture                   510           14.3                 0.873       52.0                   584          25.5
Industry                    1,428           40.1                 0.252       15.0                 5,667         247.0
Services                    1,624           45.6                 0.428       25.5                 3,794         165.4
Unallocated                   _               -                  0.126        7.5                   -             -
Total/Average             .                                -                               -
3,=62                100.0 1,679                100-0                 2,4           100.0
GoVFRNMENT FINANCE                                             2/
General Government-                               Central Government
( K  Mln.)          % of GDP                      ( K            l8n.)        1    - 79
____        1980         19717
Current Receipts                                                                          764           25             26
Current Expenditure                                                                     1,028          34              27
4urrent Surplus                                                                          -264         - 9             -2
Capital Expenditures                                                                       87           3               6
External Asaistance (net)                                                                   94          3               3
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                    1965  1970  1972         1974    1975   1976        1977   1978    1979    1980
(Million  K  outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                     107.6  355.6  341.0        440.7   493.0  623.0    699.0   640.0   832.0   907.0
Bank credit to Public Sector              -88.7 -163.8  147.2         78.1   373.0  571.0    791.0 1,C62.0 1,122.0 1,354.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector 2            42.3  136.9  165.0        335.8   393.0  399.0    470.0   462.0   483.0   505.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          15.1   27.8   25.5         23.1    31.1   33.3        35.8    29.1    31.7    29.9
General Price Index (1963 - 100)           76.2  102.6  114.6        132.1   145.4  172.8    207.0   240.9   264.3   295.2
Annual percentage changes ins
Oeneral Price Index                         8.2    2.6    5.4          8.1    10.1   18.8        19.8    16.4      9.7    11.7
Bank credit to Public Sector                             691.4       -61.9   378.2   53.1        38.5    34.3      5.6    20.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                      21.9   -9.7        92.1    17.0    0.2        17.8   -1).2    14.5       4.6
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
Total labor force as of June 1978, distributed by sector according to 1974 pattern;  dnemployed are
allocated to sector of their normal occupation, "Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers
seeking their first job.
/  Figures do not differ significantly from "Central Government."
1 Includes parastatal organizations
..not available
.not applicable
EACP I
April 14, 1481



-23 -
ZAMBIA                              ANXI
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PADMENTS AND CAPITAL SLOWS
ILANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                              MERCHAh'DISE EXPORTS 1980
1977     1978      1979  1980 (preliminary)                             US $ Mln   7.
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS            963      988    1,378  1,406               Copper                      1,260       91
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,007    1,025    1,046  1,512                Cobalt                         60       4
Resource Gap (deficit  4-)        4                 332   -106              Lead and Zinc                  40        3
All other commodities          24       2
1,384     100
Factor Payments (net)           -100     -140      -124   -229
Net Transfers                    -84     -100       -75    -60
Balance on Current Account    -228       -277       133   -395
Direct Foreign Investment         .                                 EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Net HLT Borrowing
Disbursements                244       364       306    305                                                  US $ Mln
Amortization                 120Q    _1          350 1/ 170
Subtotal                     124       203      -44    135         Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              1,785
Capital Grants                                                        M .  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)             200        75        19    160        Total outstanding & Disbursed              1,785
Other items n.e.i              -169       -90       -73    -31
Increase in Reserves (+)        -74       -89         5   .131      DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1980/
Gross Reserves (end year)         74       60        88     60
Net Reserves 2/(end year)      -227      -396      -354   -485         Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Iuports of petroleum              84       85       121    188         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed            T878
RATES OF EXCHANGE (SDR's or US$ per Kwacha)3f
US$            SDR's
Before February 1973         1.40                              IBRD/IDA LENDING, Sept 30, 1981, (Million US$);
February 1973- July 1976   1.55               *                                                        IBRD        IDA
July 1976 - March 1978                      1.0848
April 1978 - Dec.1980           .           0.9763              Outstanding & Disbursed               349.5        3.4
Undisbursed                            94.6      33.8
ANNUAL AVERAGE                                                  Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         444.1       37.2
1977                     1.27           1.08
1978                     1.23           0.98
1979                     1.26           0.98
1980                     1.27           0.98
1/  Including US$186 million of reduction in arrears.
2/ Excluding external payment arrears.
3/  The Kwacha has been pegged to the SDR since July 1976.
4| Ratio .' estimated debt service, excluding arrears and IMF repayirents, to exports of goods and non-factor
services.
not available
not applicable
1A1DB
10/20/81



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
as of September 30, 1981
Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Credit                                                          (Less Cancellation)
No.    No.       Year   Borrower           Purpose                 Bank    IDAb  Undisbursed
16 Loans fully
disbursed                                  257.00
900-1            1973   Zambia            Education                 33.00                8.91
919              1973   Zambia Elec-      Hydroelectric
tricity           Power                   115.00                4.41
Supply Corp.
1057             1974   Zambia            Urban Development         20.00                0.19
1131             1975   Posts & Tele.    Telecommunications         32.00                7.67
1210             1976   Development       Development Finance
Bank of Zambia   Company                    15.00               1.22
1356             1977   Zambia            Education                 13.30                6.41
1424             1977   Zambia            Industrial Forestry       16.80                6.63
1566   798       1978   Zambia            Third Highway             11.25  11.25       22.33
863      1979   Zambia             Coffee Production                 6.00        3.43
873      1979   Zambia             Technical Assistance              5.00        4.54
1790   973       1980   Zambia            Third Railway                     15.00       39.79
1923             1981   Development       Second Development
Bank of Zambia   Finance Company                               11.91
2001a            1981   Zambia            Eastern Province
Agric. Dev. Project          1_.__a
Total                                             564.35  37.25      128.44
of which has been repaid                         125.51    -
Total now outstanding                             438.84  37.25
Amounts  sold                                                           49.55
of which has been repaid           47.80           1.80    -
Total now held by Bank/IDA b                      437.04  37.25
of which is undisbursed                           94.60  33.80      128.40
a Not yet effective
b Prior to exchange adjustment



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
as of September 30, 1981
Investment                                                       US$ Million Equivalent
No.      Year                        Type of Business        Loan Equity   Total
216 ZA        1972   Zambia Bata Shoe
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing       0.85   0.23    1.08
250 ZA       1973   Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery              1.20    -       1.20
307 ZA        1975   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.78   0.21    0.99
324 ZA       1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia           Company                  -      0.54    0.54
394 ZA        1978   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.10    -        0.10
483 ZA       1979   Nchanga Consoli-   Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper        Production             28.00    -      28.00
Mines
527 ZA       1980   Kafue Textiles of
Zambia Limited      Textiles & Fibers       7.60    -       7.60
Total gross commitments                    38.53   0.98   39.51
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                    10.44    -      10.44
Total now held by IFC                      28.09   0.98   29.07
Total undisbursed                          15.15    -      15.15



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
as of September 30, 1981
Loan No. 900-ZA       Third Education Project:  US$33.0 million Loan of June
6, 1973; Effectiveness Date: August 9, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
The project, as originally approved (excluding certain university com-
ponents and technical assistance that were deleted at Government's re-
quest), was basically completed in March 1980, about 15 months after the
original completion date. The Closing Date, originally September 30, 1979,
has been postponed to March 31, 1983 to enable the Borrower to utilize sav-
ings to finance construction of twelve primary schools originally included
under the Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Sites and Services Project (Loan
1057-ZA) and a maintenance program for secondary schools.   Implementation
of the added components is about six months behind schedule due to Govern-
ment delays in releasing local funds.   Civil works contracts for five of
the schools have been awarded and work is proceeding satisfactorily; and
tender documents are being finalized for the remaining seven schools.   A
preliminary survey for the maintenance program has been completed and NORAD
has recruited personnel for the program (the coordinator and three mainten-
ance engineers are in post and two more engineers are scheduled to arrive
shortly).
Loan No. 919-ZA       Kafue Hydroelectric Project (Stage II):  US$115.0 mil-
lion Loan of July 16, 1973; Effectiveness Date:
January 15, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The two 150-MW units at the Kafue Gorge power station were commission-
ed in mid-1977.   Construction of the main dam has been completed and the
reservoir filled.  The project is expected to be completed within the ap-
praisal  cost  estimates.    The  Zambia  Electricity  Supply  Corporation's
(ZESCO) financial performance has not been satisfactory; tariffs were how-
ever increased 20 percent for domestic users and 30 percent for industrial
users during 1979.   Largely because of the economic recession affecting
Zambia, ZESCO has been experiencing a shortage of spare parts and the de-
parture of some expatriate staff.  The Closing Date was extended to Decem-
ber 31, 1982 to enable additional civil works on the control of artesianal
pressures to be carried out.
Loan No. 1057-ZA      Lusaka Squatter Upgrading and Sites and Services Proj-
ect: US$20.0 million Loan of December 6, 1974; Effec-
tiveness Date: April 1, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
The project is nearing completion and a PCR has been prepared.   In
spite of serious economic problems in the country and technical and



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
climatic difficulties impinging on the project itself, the project's prim-
ary objective of providing services and improving living conditions in
Lusaka's squatter compounds has been achieved. The catalytic effect on the
continuing development of these communities by the residents themselves has
been, and is being, demonstrated.  The housing stock of the city has been
substantially increased through the new sites and services areas. Techni-
cal problems hindering the completion of some of these sites have been
solved and the remaining serviced plots are expected to be allocated in the
next few months. Project works have been virtually completed and the final
disbursement request is expected shortly. Cost recovery remains a serious
problem.   However, progress in carrying out the action program agreed in
November 1979 is good.  This program is putting into place the administra-
tive and legal framework that is a prerequisite for improved collections.
Loan No. 1131-ZA      Telecommunications Project:   US$32.0 million Loan of
June 24, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
About US$4.4 million of the loan still remains to be committed. Proj-
ect completion is now expected by December 31, 1983, three years behind
schedule. Increases in tariffs (averaging 75 percent), approved in August
1979, have reduced dependence of the Posts and Telecommunications Corpora-
tion (PTC)  on government financing of local costs of the project.   The
problem of large accounts receivable by PTC from Government and its agenc-
ies continues.   Also, operational difficulties with the semi-electronic
main telephone exchange in Lusaka has severely affected PTC's revenues for
FY81; consequently, the rate of return of FY81 is projected at 5.5 percent
against 9.5 percent achieved in FY80 and the covenanted 11 percent.
Loan No. 1210-ZA      Development Bank of Zambia:  US$15.0 million Loan of
February  18,  1976;  Effectiveness Date:   April 23,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The loan has been fully committed for a number of projects in various
manufacturing industries such as chemicals, textiles, packaging, food proc-
essing and in agriculture.  Disbursements now amount to over 90 percent of
the loan.  The Closing Date has been postponed from September 31, 1981 to
March 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1356-ZA      Fourth Education Project:   US$13.3 million Loan of
January 17, 1977; Effectiveness Date:  March 8, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is progressing well and educational objectives are expect-
ed to be met.  All civil works contracts for the Farmer Training Centers
have been completed and the technical assistance team provided by the Dutch



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Government for the preparation of teaching programs is making good pro-
gress.   Despite the difficult economic situation,  the Government raised
full counterpart funds to maintain the construction program. The contract
for the Education Services Center, Phase II, was completed in October, 1980
and the contract for the Evelyn Hone College hostels was virtually complet-
ed in April 1981. The project (except technical assistance) is expected to
be completed ahead of schedule,  in January 1982.   Technical assistance
staff are expected to complete their work in December 1982.
Loan No. 1424-ZA      Second Industrial Forestry Project:   US$16.8 million
Loan of May 12, 1977; Effectiveness Date:   November
15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to be satisfactory despite staffing
and management problems.  Industrial Plantations Division's incorporation,
which should have been completed by December 31, 1978, has not yet been ef-
fected. Planting targets are being exceeded.
Loan No. 1566         Third Highway Project:  US$22.5 million (US$11.25 mil-
and                   lion Loan and US$11.25 million Credit)  of June 27,
Credit 798-ZA         1978; Effectiveness Date:  November 26, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Due to delays in loan and credit effectiveness and employment of tech-
nical assistance personnel, project implementation is behind schedule and
completion is expected by the end of 1985, 18 months behind reappraisal
(July 1979) estimates. Progress is being made in recruiting technical as-
sistance personnel.   Procurement documents for road maintenance and work-
shop equipment are being finalized; and consultants are finalizing their
report on the MSD reorganization. Consultants have been selected to carry
out feasibility studies of the Mansa-Mwense-Nchelenge road.
Credit No. 863-ZA    Coffee Production Project:   US$6.0 million Credit of
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Expatriate and counterpart staffing are satisfactory and the planting
and rehabilitation program for coffee and maize are ahead of schedule.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule.  Implementation under the smallholder
component has been slow and haphazard and lacked adequate guidance and
supervision.   The coffee research component is underway.  The estate com-
ponent is in serious financial difficulties because costs have been much
higher than expected.   The mid-term review mission that recently visited
Zambia estimates a shortfall of some US$5.0 million.   The Government and
RUCOM Industries are seeking additional financing to cover the cost over-
runs.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Credit No. 873-ZA    Technical Assistance Project:   US$5.0 million Credit
of December 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date:   July 12,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
A planning expert and a project evaluation expert have been hired to
work in the Project Preparation Unit of the National Commission for De-
velopment Planning and a second project evaluation expert is being recruit-
ed.   Phase I of feasibility studies for a fuel alcohol project have been
completed and the preparation of a possible fisheries project has just
started; and requests for financing of engineering studies for a rural
water supply project and feasibility studies for a rural electrification
project are being considered.
Loan No. 1790-ZA       Third Railway Project:  US$25.0 million Loan and US$15
Credit No. 973-ZA    million Credit of June 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
March 31, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
The project is cofinanced by the EEC (through a Special Action cred-
it), AfDB, Japan, OPEC Special Fund, KfW, SIDA and ODA (UK). Project im-
plementation is proceeding well and disbursements are expected to be sub-
stantially completed by the scheduled Closing Date.  Due to a decline in
copper and domestic traffic and lack of tariff revision, Zambian Railways
(ZR) is experiencing financial problems.   The contract of the management
team financed by CIDA has expired and the Bank will finance technical as-
sistance to enable ZR retain key staff and is liaising with other sources
regarding the provision of training assistance.
Loan No. 1923-ZA       Second Development Bank of Zambia Project:   US$15.0
million Loan of January 8, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
May 1, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The loan is almost fully committed for 17 sub-projects in manufactur-
ing, agriculture and transport.
D. IFC PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Zambia Bata Shoe Company Ltd. (216-ZA and 250-ZA) - Shoes and Tannery
IFC's investment in 1972 helped finance an expansion project to triple
shoe production to 2.9 million pairs.   The project also opened up the
ownership of the Company to local investors.   In 1973 IFC's investment
helped finance a tannery to process 300 hides per day to meet the Company-s
requirement for leather.   The foreign exchange situation of Zambia con-
tinued to limit raw material imports by the company.   However, more local
materials are now used by the company, and this resulted in 14 percent in-
crease in production during 1980. The company has been operating profitab-
ly.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Century Packages Limited (307-ZA) - Packaging Materials
The plant was completed in 1977, about a year later than origin-
ally anticipated, with an increase in project cost equivalent to 26 percent
of total costs. Increased project cost has been met largely through provi-
sion of additional financing acquired under the Project Funds Agreement.
Sales volume during the fiscal year ended March 31, 1980 were stagnant at
the previous year's level. Increases in administrative expenses, especial-
ly provision for doubtful debts, and interest cost contributed to the loss
recorded for the year.
Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ) (324-ZA) - Development Banking
DBZ- principal objective is to provide medium- and long-term
loans and equity financing for productive enterprises in manufacturing,
agriculture and tourism. Since 1979, the volume of DBZ business has been
increasing. Loan approvals, which had stagnated around US$9.5 million per
year in 1976-78, increased to US$15 million in 1979 and almost US$27 mil-
lion in FY80. Profitability has also improved: between FY79 and FY80, net
profit more than doubled to US$1.7 million. At the end of FY80, the total
portfolio of DBZ was US$27 million.
Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. (NCCM) (483-ZA) - Cobalt Production
The IFC loan of US$28 million (of which US$20 million is for
IFC's account) to NCCM for a cobalt production project was approved on
September 4, 1979. The project is under implementation.
Kafue Textile of Zambia Limited (KTZ) (527-ZA) - Textiles
A loan investment of US$7.3 million and a contingent commitment
of US$0.3 million were approved in 1980 to assist KTZ- US$28 million expan-
sion. In the expansion, the company's production capacity will be increas-
ed from 10.6 million meters of finished fabrics per year to 18.9 million
meters and diversification into the production of cotton blended fabrics
will be carried out. The project is still under implementation and is
scheduled for completion in June 1983.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project            27 months
(b)  Preparation by                           Government of Zambia and
FAO/CP
(c) First Bank Mission to consider
project                                  October 1978
(d)  Appraisal Mission departed               February 1981
(e)  Negotiations                             September 1981
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveness            April 1982
lI. Special IDA Implementation Action
None
[II. Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Appointment of project manager (para.42)
(b) Execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Government
and DPB, CFC and ZADL respectively (paras.38, 39 and 41)
(c) Establishment of advance account to be used by PMU and the
deposit of initial amount (para. 37)
Condition of Disbursement
No expenditures on Phase II of the project until IDA has been
satisfied with results of mid-term review (para. 44).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Other Conditions
(a) Annual review of milk producer prices and biennial exchange of
views on milk pricing policy (para. 27).
(b) Employment of DPB's milk transport manager (para. 34 (a)) and the
Chisamba ranch manager (para. 34 (d)).
(c) MAWD to assign appropriate numbers of agricultural and veterinary
assistants in the dairy production areas (para. 34 (b));
and Departments of Agriculture, Veterinary Services and Tsetse
Control to coordinate and integrate their staff training and
other project-related activities (para. 34 (b)).
(d) Establishment of the Project Management Unit (para. 34 (e)).
(e) Sufficient spread between CFC's borrowing and lending rates to
generate enough revenue to cover debts, operating costs, a
reasonable reserve for bad debts and enable CFC to earn net
income (para. 40).



ZAMBIA t
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                       
MILK COLLECTION ROUTES                                    Chibomba                \  /           /
KABWE DISTRICT                                                               \. 
Milk collection routes
Road to be upgraded
s    Proposed milk cooling on processing center
*    Proposed milk depots
Paved road
Other roads
Rivers
o    Agricultural camps                                              Liteto
*    Veterinary stations
Q    Dip tanks
_    _ District boundaries
KILOMETERS 0          5            0           15
K       A         B      W         E                                            MILES0                   5                   10
0
O ~~~~~~~O
Landless Corner
o  0         KApop         *Manswisa
Keembe    *         >        0  
M   achisompola;0     *Musenga                                                                 f
R   U    R   A    L                                                \
KALOLA  SETTLEMENT
\<  D  </               S    T    P    I   C    T                                              / 
i   ,/          S                 R                                    '-,. \
in. thap  . 5.D pt.dby nol. en  us_lo tht o n tffi   I.  4, A.,....,
o. oa's etA. tetu eleSu.h 4, rtany1od h ten,n.tMe  w                           I ,, A.
L      ZABA          / 
-.u   t     f    A I R Et '   \\
ANGOLA f                                                                                        M
1   rA{WEl  m S,             '   \ -                ou   " *1\                                                                   
KAWE  _AWF URBAN ,
RURA I~
MOZAMBRGUE                /
iL.                                                '5-.
z .                                   '>4 ,,_  j  ser8sg 7,M8AsWE  \   LUSAKA  D I S T R I C T                           Tota-O\






ZAMBIA
SMALLHOLDER DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   \                               Munenga o         -r
MILK COLLECTION ROUTES
MAZABUKA AND MONZE DISTRICTS    ;                                                I
\ ~~~Chalimbanax)  
Milk collection routes
----Road to be upgraded
e-  Proposedmilkcoolingonprocessingcenter
*   Proposed milk depots
-      Poced roads
Other roads
Rivers
o   Agricultural camps
*   Veterinary stations                                                                    MAZABUKA
@  Dip ta,nks                                                                    wez
-      District boundary                                                                      D  I S T  R  I C  T
KILOMETER5 D          5           10           5
MILES                                        I
/  Kounsba0\
|oreakebe /a                                                            Nkoekaa Slika
/M  O N Z E /D  I S TAR I C9T    \                                \  \
/                         /                                    '\.                    \\
MONZ>ve                                                                                         =M.iike \       A    ihiw QiE
Sic.kasnk s                                       amNm k.be               C     NIOlCS                     \.          CNkonkola
Ir kno,I e,,9u 31-i etc.                          I
/    /  r              /           \               D~~~~~~~~~~~1S,kobenga
/          /           6    /    Chl~~~~~~~~hkunks' 
SIWIILI  SETTLEMENT//    
A                           hisekeii                            h                                                            u                hiobolar'J  Z Ahl E I Aus'  32  N
><  Chisuwoa  X                                                ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ANGOLA (,j                     B
Gwembe                                       I_~ 
A ZZASf fA, eu             MOZAMBIQxJE
ofth ls  r ob   eprlrow,c , ,btestrbsc#5s/yfth cnwinc   d2   OVZ < (   4.  



