CREDIT NUMBER 1196 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Smallholder Dairy Development Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1196 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated (ktC-L                      , 1982, between
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out partly by the Zambia
Agricultural Development, Limited, the Dairy Produce Board and the
Cattle Financing Company, Limited, with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to the Zambia Agricultural Development, Limited, the Dairy Produce
Board and the Cattle Financing Company, Limited, part of the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Zambia Agricultural Development, Limited, the Dairy Produce Board
and the Cattle Financing Company, Limited;
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980 (herein-
after called the General Conditions) with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the Agreement between the
Association and the Zambia Agricultural Development, Limited, the


﻿-2-
Dairy Produce Board and the Cattle Financing Company, Limited, of
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from tim: to time,
and such term includes all Schedules to the Project Agreement and
all Agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "ZADL Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Zambia Agricultural
Development, Limited, pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agree-
ment, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all Schedules to the ZADL Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "DPB Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Dairy Produce Board
pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all Schedules to
the DPB Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) "CFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Cattle Financing
Company, Limited, pursuant to Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement
as the same may be amended from time to time and such term
includes all Schedules to the CFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e) "MAWD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Development;
(f) "PMU" means the Project Management Unit to be estab-
lished pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(g) "DOA" means the Borrower's Department of Agriculture;
(h) "DVSTC" means the Borrower's Department of Veterinary
Services and Tsetse Control;
(i) "ZADL" means the Zambia Agricultural Development,
Limited, a company established on December 14, 1978 under the
Companies Act (CAP 686) of the Laws of the Republic of Zambia and
any successors thereto;
(j) "DPB" means the Dairy Produce Board, established under
the Dairy Produce Board (Establishment) Act (CAP 350) of the Laws
the Republic of of Zambia and any successors thereof;
(k) "CFC" means the Cattle Financing Company, Limited,
established on April 29, 1969 under the Companies Act (CAP 686) of
the Laws of the Republic of Zambia;


﻿-3-
(1) "Project Advance Account" means the Account to be
established pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(m) "Project Area" means the Districts of Monze and Mazabuka
in the Southern Province and the District of Kabwe in the Central
Province of the Borrower;
(n) "Phase I of the Project" means Parts A, B, C and D of
the Project to be carried out in the Districts of Monze and
Mazabuka; and
(o) "Phase II of the Project" means Parts A, B and D of
the Project to be carried out in Kabwe District.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to herein, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to six million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 6,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent


﻿-4-
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1992, and
ending August 15, 2031, each installment including the installment
payable on August 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01 (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project through PMU with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate agricultural, administrative, finan-
cial and engineering practices and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause ZADL, DPB and CFC to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action including
the provision of funds, facilities, licenses, services and other
resources necessary or appropriate to enable ZADL, DPB and
CFC to perform such obligations and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall carry out or cause the
Project to be carried out in two phases as defined in Section
1.01 (n) and (o) to this Agreement provided, however, that, not
later than three years from the Date of Effectiveness of this


﻿-5-
Agreement, and prior to the implementation of Phase II of the
Project, the Borrower and the Association shall:
(a) jointly undertake a review to assess the progress
achieved in carrying out Phase I of the Project, which shall,
inter alia, examine:
(i) the number of smallholders who have qualified and
obtained credit for dairy development under the
Project;
(ii) the pattern of milk production developing among
Project smallholders; and
(iii) an overall analysis of the condition of the milk
industry including production, pricing, processing,
marketing and consumer demand.
(b) On the basis of the above-mentioned review, determine
whether to proceed with t%e implementation of Phase II of the
Project.
Section 3.03. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall:
(a) enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with ZADL
acceptable to the Association which shall provide, that, inter
alia, the Borrower shall onlend to ZADL from the proceeds of the
Credit, up to one million eight hundred fifty thousand dollars
($1,850,000) equivalent, repayable in fifteen (15) years, incil4-
ing a three-year grace period, at an interest rate of not lejs
than eleven percent (11%) per annum to assist ZADL in carry-
ing out Part C of the Project;
(b) enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with DPB accept-
able to the Association which shall provide, inter alia, that the
Borrower shall onlend to DPB from the proceeds of the Credit, up
to one million two hundred fifty thousand dollars -($1,250,000)
equivalent, repayable in twenty (20) years, including an eight-
year grace period, at an interest rate of not less than eleven
percent (11%) per annum to be capitalized during the grace period
to assist DPB in carrying out Part D of the Project;
(c) enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with CFC accept-
able to the Association which shall provide, inter alia, that the


﻿-6-
Borrower shall onlend to CFC from the proceeds of the Credit, up
to two million seven hundred thousand dollars ($2,700,000) equi-
valent, repayable in twenty (20) years, including a five-year
grace period, at an interest rate of not less than five percent
(5%) per annum to assist CFC in carrying out Part B of the
Project; and
(d) the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements referred to in paragraphs (a) through
(c) of this Section in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate t waive any of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall establish PMU in MAWD under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Association which shall include,
inter alia, the employment of a Project Manager and a Financial
Controller whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon its obligations under
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i) establish and maintain in the Bank of Zambia,
under arrangements satisfactory to the Association,
a Project Advance Account to be used by PMU for the
purpose of meeting recurrent expenditures under
Part A of the Project; and
(ii) deposit in such Project Advance Account at the
beginning of each quarter, the funds required by
PMU for recurrent expenditures under said Part of
the Project.
Section.3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-7-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project
until the Project is completed.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, with respect to
the Project, furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract docu-
ments and construction and procurement schedules for the Project
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) maintain   records and procedures adequate        to
record and monitor the progress of Part A of the
Project including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it, to identify the goods and
services financed out of the the Credit and to
disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and
(iii) furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report of such scope and in such detail as the


﻿-8-
Association shal1 reasonably request on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under this Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such ac,quisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such la,id and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall employ a Ranch Manager
to manage the Chisamba Ranch whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall assign not less than
twelve Agricultural Assistants and not less than six Veterinary
Assistants to the Project Area within a year from the date of this
Agreement.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall coordinate and integrate the
activities of DOA and DVSTC (including training of their staffs) in
the execution of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain separate Accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices, its operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project,;
(b) have the Project Accounts, including the certificates
of expenditure referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement, for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association;


﻿-9-
(c) furnish to the Association as soon as avEilable
but, in any case, not later than six months after the end of each
such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested including, without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.02 of this
Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Accounts on the basis of certificates of expenditure
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided;
and
(d) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said Accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. To the extent that any withdrawal of the
proceeds of the Credit are made on the basis of certificates of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause PMU, ZADL, DPB and CFC to
retain, until one year after the Closing Date, the underlying
documentation on which such certificates were based (bills,
receipts, invoices or other such documents) and shall make such
documentation available to the Association for its inspection.
Section 4.03. In order to maintain adequate production
incentives to farmers and a profitable margin to DPB on the resale
price of milk, the Borrower shall annually review and adjust as
deemed necessary, milk prices, taking into account the cost of
production, processing and distribution and shall, from time to
time, exchange views with the Association on its milk pricing
policy.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) ZADL, DPB or CFC shall have failed to perform any
of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ZADL, DPB or CFC will be able to perform
any of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement;


﻿- 10 -
(c) any legal provision governing or applicable to the
establishment, organization or operations of ZADL, DPB or CFC
shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of ZADL, DPB or CFC to carry
out any of their obligations under the Project Agreement;
(d) ZADL, DPB or CFC shall be unable to pay their debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken
by ZADL, DPB or CFC or by others whereby any of the property
of ZADL, DPB or CFC shall or may, )e distributed among their
creditors; and
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdic-
tion shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of ZADL, DPB or CFC or for the suspension of
operations of ZADL, DPB or CFC.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and/or
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b) through (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the Effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of
the General Conditions:
(a) the ZADL Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ZADL;
(b) the DPB Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and DPB;


﻿- 11 -
(c) the CFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and CFC;
(d) the Project Advance Account referred to in Section 3.05
of this Agreement has been established and the initial amount has
been deposited; and
(e) the Borrower shall have employed the Project Manager
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by ZADL, DPB and CFC, and is legally binding upon
ZADL, DPB and CFC in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the ZADL Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ZADL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and ZADL in accordance with its terms;
(c) that the DPB Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and DPB and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and DPB in accordance with its terms;
and
(d) that the CFC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CFC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and CFC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date    3L                      is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III and IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as the Representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka
The Republic of Zambia
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                             42221
Lusaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
Representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of


﻿- 13 -
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By           0A
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
I


-   1 4   - 
S C H E D U L E   1 
W i t h d r a w a l   o f   t h e   P r o c e e d s   o f   t h e   C r e d i t 
1 .       T h e   t a b l e   b e l o w   s e t s   f o r t h   t h e   C a t e g o r i e s   o f   i t e m s   t o   b e 
f i n a n c e d   o u t   o f   t h e   p r o c e e d s   o f   t h e   C r e d i t ,   t h e   a l l o c a t i o n   o f   t h e 
a m o u n t s   o f   t h e   C r e d i t   t o   e a c h   C a t e g o r y   a n d   t h e   p e r c e n t a g e   o f 
e x p e n d i t u r e s   f o r   i t e m s   s o   t o   b e   f i n a n c e d   i n   e a c h   C a t e g o r y : 
A m o u n t   o f   t h e 
C r e d i t   A l i o c a t e d                       %   o f 
( E x p r e s s e d   i n                 E x p e n d i t u r e s 
C a t e g o r y                                       S D R   E q u i v a l e n t )         t o   b e   F i n a n c e d 
1 .       C i v i l   W o r k s   u n d e r                           8 9 0 , 0 0 0                   7 0 % 
P a r t s   C   a n d   D   o f   t h e 
P r o j e c t 
2 , ( a )   V e h i c l e s ,   E q u i p -                           6 2 0 , 0 0 0                   1 0 0 %   o f   f o r - 
m e n t ,   S p a r e   P a r t s                                                 e i g n   e x p e n d i - 
a n d   M a t e r i a l s                                                         t u r e s   a n d   8 0 % 
o f   l o c a l 
e x p e n d i t u r e s 
( b )   O p e r a t i n g   C o s t s   f o r               5 3 0 , 0 0 0                   1 0 0 %   o f   f o r - 
V e h i c l e s ,   M a c h i n e r y ,                                           e i g n   e x p e n d i - 
V e t e r i n a r y   S u p p l i e s                                             t u r e s   a n d   8 0 % 
a n d   M a t e r i a l s                                                         o f   l o c a l 
e x p e n d i t u r e s 
3 .       T e c h n i c a l   A s s i s t a n c e                 1 , 0 6 0 , 0 0 0                   1 0 0 %   o f   f o r - 
e i g n   e x p e n d i - 
t u r e s 
4 .       B r e e d i n g   S t o c k   u n d e r                     5 3 0 , 0 0 0                   1 0 0 %   o f   f o r - 
P a r t   C   o f   t h e                                                                   e i g n   e x p e n d i - 
' r o j e c t                                                                               t u r e s 
5 .       C r e d i t   t o   P a r t i c i -                     2 , 2 1 0 , 0 0 0                   8 0 % 
p a t i n g   F a r m e r s 
6 .       U n a l l o c a t e d                                       8 6 0 , 0 0 0 
T O T A L                   6 , 7 0 0 , 0 0 0 


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments
made for expenditures prior to December 15, 1981; and
(b) no withdrawals shall be made and no commitments shall
be entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in
respect of expenditures to be financed under Phase II of the
Project unless the Association shall have been satisfied with
the results of the review referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the


﻿- 16 -
Credit which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the esti-
mated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may con-
tinue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to encourage
the production of milk for commercial sales by smallholders
initially in the Districts of Monze and Mazabuka and subsequently
in the Kabwe District and consists of the following main
components:
Part A:   Farm Development, Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Services
Improvement and intensification of the livestock extension
and veterinary services and training of staff to support the
introduction of improved milk production practices to small-
holders.
Part B:   Smallholder Credit
Provision of production credit through CFC to participating
smallholders.
Part C:   Heifer-breeding Farm Development
Improvement and expansion of the Chisamba Ranch through
increasing the breeding herd and providing equipment, infra-
structure and support staff.
Part D:   Milk Collection Services
Establishment of a milk collection and handling system to
serve participating smallholders.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines) on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than sixty (60) days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for vehicles, spare parts and equipment shall
be grouped, to the extent practicable, to form appropriate bid
packages. Bidders shall be given the option of bidding for each
bid package separately or for a combination of several bid pack-
ages and be required to maintain, in the territory of the Bor-
rower, adequate aftersales and spare parts inventories.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of. goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding:
(i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the
c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf
price of other goods, offered in such bid;


﻿- 19 -
(ii) customs duties .and other import taxes levied in
connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall
not be taken into account in the ev aluation of the
bids; and
(iii) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(i) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the territory of the Borrower if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the Bor-
rower and the Association that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in the
territory of the Borrower equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(ii) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(iii) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a


﻿- 20 -
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to:
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or
(ii) fifteen percent (15%) of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed
fifteen percent (15%) of such price. If the group A
bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award, if not, the bid
from group C, which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid, shall
be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Vehicles, equipment, spare parts and veterinary supplies
estimated to cost less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) each shall be procured in accordance with the existing
procedures of the Borrower acceptable to the Association.
2.   Civil works, maintenance, land clearing and pasture improve-
ments shall be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally or by force account where the above procedures
are not practicable.
3.   Breeding stock under Part C of the Project may be procured
from countries adjacent to Zambia at regularly scheduled public
sales or from cattle owners following advertising in accordance
with the Borrower's procedures acceptable to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) or more:


﻿-21-
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitation
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract or issuing
any change order under such contract, except in cases of extreme


﻿- 22 -
urgency which would increase the cost of the contract by more than
fifteen percent (15%) of the original price, the Borrower shall
inform the Association of the proposed modification, waiver,
extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The Associa-
tion, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 c
FOR SECRETARY


