CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 903 MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   June 25, 1979


﻿ft
CREDIT NUMBER 903 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1979, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
OF MADAGASCAR (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has re uested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the French Caisse
Centrale de Coop6ration Economique a loan in an amount of
89,000,000 French francs, to assist in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an Agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and such agency;
(C) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower's
National Railways, the Reseau National des Chemins de Fer
Malagasy (hereinafter called the Railways) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Railways the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Railways;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
V


﻿-2-
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meaning's therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Railways" means Reseau National des Chemins de Fer
Malagasy, an Etablissement Public A Caractere Industriel et
Commercial of the Borrower, under the supervision (tutelle) of the
Borrower's Ministry responsible for Transport and established
pursuant to Decree No. 74-154 of the Borrower, dated May 10, 1974,
and including any successor thereto;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Railways of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from timue to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement; and
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Railways pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of' the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿r7lI
-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
'withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1989, and ending November 15,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.                                                                  A
Section 2.09. The Railways is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Railways to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
I                                                                 - -


﻿the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Railways to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
the Railways under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Railways under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association including
interest at eight per cent (8%) per annum and a term of 20 years
including 5 years of grace.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Upon completion of the study included in Part G
of the Project, the Borrower and the Association shall exchange
views on the implementation of the recommendations resulting
therefrom with a view to ensuring through appropriate measures,
including the provision of funds to the Railways, that it will be
compensated for the costs of any services found to be uneconomi-
cal.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary on its part, including but not limited to the
setting and adjustment of tariffs, to enable the Railways to
comply with the provisions of Sections 4.04, 4.05, 4.06 and 4.07
of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association on any proposal for a material change in the Statuts
or organization of the Railways.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall exchange views with rhe
Association from time to time on the development of the proposed
new container handling facility at Antananarivo.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall promptly reimburse to the
Railways all amounts foregone on account of concessionary
passenger fares established by the Borrower.


﻿ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Railways shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of the Railways under the Project Agree-
ment.
(b) A.default shall have occurred in the performance of any
covenant, agreement or obligation on the part of the Borrower or
the Railways under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) Decree No. 74-154 of May 10, 1974 of the Borrower or any
other legislation or regulation of the Borrower governing the
establishment, organization, powers and operations of the Rail-
ways, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the
ability of the Railways to carry out the covenants, agreements and
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Railways or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Railways will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower or the Railways to
withdraw the proceeds of any grant or loan
made to the Borrower or the Railways for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agree-
ment providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.


﻿-6-
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension,, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower or the Railways to perform
any of their obligations under such agreemeht, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower or the Railways from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obli-
gations of the Borrower under this Agreement and of
the Railways under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and the Railways; and
(b) the event specified in paragraphs (d) or (f) (i) (B)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the RaiLways; and
(b) the Association has been notified by the Caisse Centrale
de Coop6ration Economique that all conditions precedent to
initial disbursement of its loan for the Project, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to .be
furnished to the Association:


﻿-7-
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Railways, and is legally binding upon the
Railways in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by the Borrower and the Railways and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Railways in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 25, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 21
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere aupres de la Presidence
de la R6publique
Charge des Finances et du Plan
Antananarivo
Madagascar
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFINPLAN                          22339
Antananarivo
IN1


﻿-8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By Is/ Norbert Rakotomalala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
J,


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Imported track-           10,850,000         100% of foreign
maintenance                                 expenditures or,
equipment and                               if purchased in
track materials;                            Madagascar, 75%
aerial ropeway                              of local expen-
ditures
(2) Consultants' and             400,000         100% of foreign
experts' services;                          expenditures
training
(3) Unallocated                1,750,000
TOTAL      13,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied


﻿- 10 -
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or reredy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the Investment Plan of the Railways for
the period 1979-1983, designed to renew and modernize its instal-
lations and equipment, improve its operations and strengthen its
organization and management. The Project includes the following:
Part A:
Renewal of about 160 km of worn-out track on the
Antananarivo - Cfte Est Line and the. Moramanga line; improvement
of about 124 km; renewal of points and crossings and procurement
of track-maintenance equipment;
Part B:
procurement of seven line locomotives, one railcar, ten
coaches and about seventy-five wagons;
Part C:
improvement of telecommunications;
Part D:
improvement of workshops and replacement of workshop equip-
ment;
Part E:                  *
realignment of about 14 km of track between Ambila and
Brickaville;
Part F:
review and implementation of a unified financial and cost-
accounting system; carrying out of the Railways' Transport Plan;
training of acck. nting personnel; and
Part G:
carrying out a study of the long-term viability of the
Antsirabe-Antananarivo and the Manakara-Fianarantsoa railway
lines.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


