i
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 903 MAG
Project Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
RESEAU NATIONAL DES CHEMINS DE FER MALAGASY
Dated June 25, 1979
- i


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 903 MAG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1979, between the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
the RESEAU NATIONAL DES CHEMINS DE FER      MALAGASY (hereinafter
called the Railways).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Democratic Republic of Madagascar (here-
inafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that the Railways agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are here-
inafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Railways, the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to the Railways on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS the Railways, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Railways shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility


﻿-2-
practices pursuant to the Schedule of Implementation shown in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and so as to achieve the operational
objectives set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Railways in implementing
its Transport Plan and in carrying out Parts F and G of the
Project, the Railways shall employ such consultants and other
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, as shall
be agreed with the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Railways undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Railways to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Railways shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Railways shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
-(b) The Railways: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represent-
atives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds


﻿-3-
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reosonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Railways
and the Association, the Railways shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Railways
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(d) The Railways shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to examine the plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of the Railways related to the
Project and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. The Railways shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Railways shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Railways shall at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Railways shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project,, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by the Railways of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Railways
Section 3.01. The Railways shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future


﻿-4-
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial, economic, engineering and
railway practices and under the supervision of experienced and
competent management assisted by qualified and competent staff.
Section 3.:. The Railways shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. In order to ensure efficient implementation of
the financial and accounting reforms comprising Part F of the
Project, the Railways shall employ a financial manager whose
qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Railways shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Railways shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associ-
ation such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Railways and the audit thereof as the Associ-
ation shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Railways shall revalue its fixed assets
annually beginning in respect of the year 1980 on the basis
of replacement costs and shall adjust depreciation on such assets
accordingly.
Section 4.04. The Railways shall take such steps as shall be
necessary to ensure the collection from all agencies of the


﻿-5-
Borrower of accounts receivable from such agencies within ninety
days from the date of billing.
Section 4.05. In the light of the objective of maintaining
a tariff structure and fixing tariff levels in accordance with
appropriate economic and commercial principles for railways
operations, the Railways shall take all steps, including periodic
adjustments in tariffs, necessary to (i) cover the full costs
of services; (ii) generate internally such funds as shall be
necessary to meet debt-service requirements, to maintain adequate
working capital and to make a reasonable contribution toward
investment needs, including replacements.
Section 4.06. Until the Project shall have been completed,
(a) the Railways shall not, without a prior exchange of views with
the Association, commit itself to any capital expenditures not
required under the 1979-83 Investment Plan exceeding in the
aggregate for any fiscal year an amount of two hundred million
Malagasy Francs (FMG200,000,000) or relating to any individual
capital item estimated to cost fifty million Malagasy Francs
(FMG50,000,000) or more; and
(b) the Railways shall keep the Association promptly
informed of all investments made in the railway sector, whether
public or private.
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Railways shall from time to time take all such measures
(including but not limited to adjustments of its tariffs and
tariff structure) as shall be required to obtain rates of return
of not less than 1.3% in 1979, 2.5% in 1.980, 1981 and 1982, and
3.0% thereafter.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated by
relating the operating income for the year in
question to the average of the values of net fixed
assets in operation at the beginning and at the end
of each year.
(ii) The term "value of net fixed assets in operation"
shall mean the gross book value of such assets,
less the amount of accumulated depreciation, both
as valued from time to time in accordance with


﻿-6-
sound and consistently maintained methods of
valuation acceptable to the Association.
(iii) The term "operating income" shall mean the differ-
ence between:
(A) gross operating revenue accruing from
services; and
(B) the   operating and administration expenses,
taxes (if any) and adequate maintenance and
depreciation, but excluding interest and other
charges on debt.
(c) Promptly following the revaluation of assets required
under Section 4.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower, the Associ-
ation and the Railways shall agree on revised rates of return
for the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section in the light of
such revaluation.
Section 4.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Railways shall not incur any debt unless the amount of
its net cash revenue for its fiscal year next preceding the date
of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior
to the date of such incurrence, whichever amount is the greater,
shall be not less than one and one-half times the maximum debt
service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all its
debt including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this
Section:
(a) "debt" means all debt, except debt incurred in the
ordinary course of business and maturing by its terms less than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date and to the extent it is drawn
down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement;
and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the underlying debt is outstanding;
(c) the term "net cash revenue" means gross operating
revenue from all sources, adjusted to take account of tariffs in
effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were


﻿not in effect during the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period
to which such revenues relate, less all operating expenses,
including adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative
expenses, but before provision for depreciation and debt service
requirements;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any),
interest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in the currency of the Borrower debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
rate of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable, at
the time such valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing
such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at the
rate of exchange that will be reasonably determined by the Associ-
ation.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of the Railways thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 21 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) if the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Railways of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to ahe given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Railways:
Reseau National des Chemins
de Fer Malagasy
B.P. 259
Antananarivo, Madagascar
Cable address:                      Telex:
CHEMINFER                           22233
Antananarivo                        CHEMINFER
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Railways or under the Development
Credit Agreement by the Railways on behalf of the Borrower may be
taken or executed by the Directeur General of the Railways or


﻿I71
such other person or persons as the Railways shall designate in
writing, and the Railways shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Willi A. Waphenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
RESEAU NATIONAL DES CHEMINS DE FER MALAGASY
By /s/ Norbert Rakotomalala
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Railways shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Railways shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price "for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Railways of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Subject to the provisions of part C.1 of this Schedule,
purchases of equipment and materials estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $25,000 which cannot be grouped for


﻿- 11 -
procurement under Part A above may be made following the appli-
cable procedures of the Railways.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to (i) all contracts for equipment or materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more and (ii)
all contracts of any value proposed to be procured under Part B of
this Schedule the estimated cost of which, when added to all other
contracts so procured, is expected to exceed $250,000 equivalent:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Railways shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Rail-
ways shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Railways and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿- 12 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Railways shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Railways and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Railways shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Railways
and state the reasons for its determination.
_____________________________________________________ V_


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE     2
Implementation Schedule
1978              1979             1980              1981              1982             1983
1   2    3   4    1   2   3    4    1   2   3    4   1    2   3    4   1   2    3   4    1   2   3    4
A. TRACK
1. Prepare specifications and tender docu-
ments for
a) rail, sleepers, fastenings, joints and crossings
b) ballast wagons and track maintenanct equipment
2. Advertise, receive tenders, evaluate, award for
a) rail, sleepers, fastenings, joints and crossings
b) Ballast wagons and track maintenance equipment
3. Delivery of material and equipment
a) rail, sleepers, fastenings, joints and crossings
b) ballast wagons and track maintenance equipment
4. Relaying of 100 km of track and improvement of another 80 km                                                            mu   m           a   g    g    m    m  ma
B.  MOTIVE POWER AND ROLLING STOCK
1. Prepare specifications and tender documents
2. Advertise, receive tenders, evaluate, award
3. Delivery of
a) locomotives
b) wagons                                                                                     -M9 1-
c) railcars and coaches
C.   INFRASTRUCTURE
1. Prepare specifications and tender docu-
ments for
a) realignement of Ambila-Brickaville
b) Improvements of yards and crossings
c) workshops equipment
2. Advertise, receive tenders. evaluate, award for
a) realignement of Ambila-Brickaville
b) improvements of yards and crossings
c) workshops equipment
3. Delivery of material and equipment
a) realignement of Ambila-Brickaville
b) improvements of yards and crossings
c) workshops equipment                                                                                             -        -   -
4. Realignement, installations, improvements
ao realignement of Ambila-Brickaville
b) improvements of yards aned crossings
c) workshops equipment
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Appointment of Finance Manager
2. Appointment of Consultants
3. Implementation of Unified Accounting
System and Training
Source: Bank Staff
January 1979                                                                                                                                           World Bank -18945
'771
Vf


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Operational Objectives
Actual Objectives
1977      1982
1. Average Motive Power
Availability (%)
(a) Main line loco-     86.9     85-90
motives
(b) Shunting loco-      94.9     90-95
motives
(c) Motor coaches       95.5      90-95
2. Productivity per
available motive
power unit ('000) km
(a) Main line loco-     94.6      100
motives
(b) Shunting loco-      18.8        25
motives
(c) Motor coaches       99.1       100
3. Average availability
of freight wagons (%)
(a) Ore wagons          92.0     90-95
(b) Tank wagons         97.0      95-98
(c) General cargo       96,0     95-98
4.. Average turnaround
time (days)
(a) Ore wagons           6.9       3.5
(b) Tank wagons          5.5        5.0
(c) Covered wagons       9.1        7.5
(d) Flat wagons         15.0      11.0
5. Average wagon load (%)
(a) Ore wagons         100.0     100.0
(b) Tank wagons         91.0      91.0
(c) Covered wagons      53.0       55.0
(d) Flat wagons         42.0      45.0


