Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24291
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 2561-VN)
June 11, 2002
&ctor and hematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Deartment



Currency Equivalents (amul averages)
Currency Name: Vietnamese Dong, Currency Unit: VND
1994          US$1.00 VNDI0,966                1997         US$1.00 VNDI1,683
1995          US$1.00 VNDll,038                1998         US$1.00 VND13,268
1996          US$1.00 VND11,033                1999         US$1.00 VND13,943
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARP           Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
CAE           Country Assistance Evaluation
CIMP          Community integrated pest management
CMP           Computerized Project Management
EA            Earning Assets
FAO
FFS           Farmer Field school
GDP
GRC           General Rubber Corporation
LAS           International Accounting Standards
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
HDA           International Development Association
IPM           Integrated pest management
MAFI          Ministry of Agricultwe and Food industries
MAR}          Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MOF           Ministry of Finance
OED           Operations Evaluation Deatment
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PPAR          Project Performance Assessment Report
mTI           program of targeted interventions
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SOEs          State-owned enterprises
SRC           State Rubber Company
TA
VAS           Vietnam Accounting Standards
VBARD         Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
Fiscal Year
Govemment: Januauy 1 to December 31
Director-Gnral, Operations Evahlation            : Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evahlation Departmnt:       : Mr. Gregory Inp8
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation          : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                     : Mr. Ridley Nelson



The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operatons Evaluation
June 11, 2002
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Assessment Report on Vietnam Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2561-VN)
Attached is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Vietnam Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project for which a credit in the amount of SDR 69.4 million (US$96 million
equivalent) was approved on January 25, 1994. The project closed on June 30, 1999, 18 months
behind schedule. The final total disbursed was US$107.5 million equivalent, 100% of the original
amount. There was no cofinanc;ng.
The main objective of the project, classified as a program of targeted interventions (PTI), was to
support government efforts to increase rural incomes and to assist Vietnam's transition to a market
economy. This was to be done through assistance to key agriculture institutions serving the newly
emerged smallholder sector and through support for the estate rubber sub-sector.
The project, the first World Bank-funded project in the sector since 1978, was expected to assist the
ongoing adjustment from collectivized agriculture to smallholder family farmiing through four main
components: (i) rehabilitating agricultural support services by providing assistance to decentralized
extension in 23 out of the 61 provinces, improving plant protection services including integrated pest
management, and strengthening research in three key institutes (16% of project costs); (ii) providing
supervised credit to about 50,000 private smallholder farm households in 10 provinces to purchase
fertilizer, improved seeds, and other inputs and on-farm development works (51% of project costs);
(iii) rehabilitating about 160,000 hectares of established rubber of high potential productivity,
providing additional processing capacity, and upgrading the quality of rubber being produced through
construction of five new latex processing facilities and rehabilitating four old facilities (34% of
project costs); (iv) providing training and technical assistance for policy analysis and preparation of
follow-on projects to give more specialized assistance to the sector and to develop a smallholder
rubber program (about 10% of project costs but included within the above components)
The project was generally well-designed and well implemented, although as a Poverty Targeted
Intervention there was limited explicit poverty design rationale. It would have benefited from a logical
framework matrix built around the poverty objective. OED rates outcome as satisfactory,



sustainability likely, institutional development as modest, Bank performance as satisfactory, and
Borrower performance as satisfactory. The findings are consistent with the recent OED Country
Assistance Evaluation (CAE) that the performance in the rural sector was satisfactory.
The main objective of the project-to support govemment efforts to increase rural incomes and to
assist Vietnam's transition to a market economy through support for key agnculture institutions-was
largely met, although attributable impact data on incomes is not available except, to some extent, from
FAO data in the integrated pest management component. The rural finance component more than
achieved its targets at 95% repayment rates while strengthening the institution and giving the
institution its first experience of rural lending to small farmers on a substantial scale. Rubber
rehabilitation achieved the improved estate productivity planned and largely achieved the improved
processing planned although at higher costs than anticipated. The livestock breeding component
performed well. Substantial skills development in the sector was achieved.
The OED assessment focused particularly on one sub-component of the project, the Integrated Pest
Management sub-component, because, although it was only 3% of the project costs, it is the first time
that OED has looked at impact from this new and expanding area of Bank mrual lending. In this
component, efficiency and fiscal sustainability are questionable. The Farmer Field School (FFS)
approach to extension and integrated pest management has so far reached only 4 percent of Vietnam's
farmers over about an eight-year penod. Public expenditure would have to increase dramatically to
achieve substantial FFS coverage. Moreover, the impact data available raise some questions about the
extent to which FFSs have really achieved incremental benefits and about the extent to which FFS
farmers have sustained some of the 1PM practices in later years. However, with further adaptation
there may be the germs of a promising extension system. Experinentation at lower cost levels is
needed as well as further impact studies including better understanding of the level of farmer to
farmer transmission and the extent of beneficial environmental externalities.
The project findings tempered by other OED expenence offer five main lessons. First, that
developing a poverty-related logical framework helps to clarify the poverty rationale. Second, that as
decentralization progresses mechanisms to ensure sustainability become more a function of reforms
that deliver self-sustaining institutions and cost recovery at the local level than public expenditure
commitment from the center. Third, that alongside other OED evidence, this project raises efficiency
and sustainability questions about the use of separate PCUs - which proliferate partly to meet donor
procedurl demands. Fourth, key elements in scaling up extension include maximizing farmer-to-
farmer diffusion, enhancing the capacity of farmers to develop their own solutions, cost recovery or
privatization, minimizing the costs of trainers through the use of farmer-trainers, and lower cost mass
media approaches. Pilots of alternative models to test the impact of different extension intensities may
be important for fornulating extension strategies. Fifth, Projects with a number of components and
PCUs, and complex links to provincial and district management units, and with substantial challenges
in procurement, could benefit from the use of Computerized Project Management (CPM) systems to
track and manage expenditure.
Attachment



i
OED Mission: Ening development effectiveness through excellence atd Independence In evaluation.
About this Report
The Operatios EvakUtO Depatmnent assesses the progaras and actites of Fe World Bank for two purposes: first
to ensure the irnegrity of the Bank's self-evaluation pmcess and to verify that the Bank's work is producirg the expeded
results, and second, to help develop mproved directns, policies, and pmcedures trugh the dissemination of lessor.
drawn ftrm experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's lending operations. In
selectirg operatorns for assessment pference is given to those that are innovative, large, or oomplex. those that are
relevant to upcoming studies or counbry evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank management have
requested assessents; and those that are likely to gnerate important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical
appoaches selcted for assessment support arer evaluation studies.
A Project Perfonnance Assessment Report (PPAR) Is based on a review of the Implementation Completion Report
(a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs. OED staff
examine project files and other documents, Interview operational staff, and in most cases visit the borrowing country for
onsite discussions with project staff and beneficaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augmrent the information
provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the PPAR
Is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amrended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then sent to the
borrower for review; the bonowers' omments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Raing System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, projeci design, or sdcoral
approach. OED evaluators all apply the samne basic method to anrve at their project ratings. Following is the definition
and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information Is available on the OED website:
htIp:Worldbank.orgloeeta-mainpage.htrl).
ReIevance of 04ecit The extent to which the projects objectves are consistent with the country's current
development prioritles and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed
in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies).
Possible rtings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achleved, taking Into
account thedr relative Importance. Possibfe ra:qns: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Ef1deny: The extent to which the project achieved, or Is expected to achieve, a return higher ftan the opportunity
cost of capital and benefts at least cost compared to alternatives. Possfibe raings: High, Substantial, Modest.
Negigble. Th rating Is not generaly applied to adjusbment operaons.
Sustuinablty The resience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Ukely, Ukely, Unlikely,
Highly Unlikely. Not Evaluable.
nsIbtona Development bnp.ct The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to
mnake more efficient equitable and sustainable use of ts human, financial, and natual resources through: (a) better
definition, stability, transparency. enreabilty, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b) better
alignment of the mission and capacty of an organization with its nandate, which derives from these Institutional
arrangements. Institutional Development Impact incudes both Intended and unintended effects of a projecL Possible
rating High, Substantial, Modest Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the prjetsr major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory. Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Pertbinanew The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
Impementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transifton arrangements for regular
operation of the prect). Possbbe ratWs: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Benuwer Pefrbnnce: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality
of preparaton and Implementation, and momplied with covenants and agreemenxt, towards the achievement of
deveopmet obetives and sustainakbty. Possible ratings: Highly Satsfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsasfactry.






Contents
Principal Ratings ........... ..... .           _. .  ,  .    ......  ..    . v
Key Staff Responsible .........                                        ..... - v
Preface ...     _    ..    ...                             ..    . _. ..... . vii
1. Background._.      .    ..                 -     ..              .    ........n _ I
2.   EFindings .. ................... . ... . .....   . . . ....._ .  . . ........ . .2
Lessons                                .3
Future Directions .............4
3.   Analysis. .... ...... ............ . _._ . . .___.... . ..... S
Relevance                               .5
Efficacy .S
Efficiency                              .8
Institutional Development .10
Bank Performance .10
Borrower Performance.                                                  11
&SUianabify11
A      nnex A. Basic  D.ata S h e  e     t     ........................................................ 15
Annex B. Comments from the Borrower .. .. .17
Annex C. Inplementafion of the Plant Protection Sub-component Supporting IPM Throug
Farmer Field Shools...                 _      .    _      ._             . 20
bi repor wa prepare by Rdley Nelon (Task Maager). Wifliam Hurlbut edited the report Helen
Pifllip providd ad=unslatJive suppot






v
Vietnam Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2561-VN)
Principal Ratings
ICR                    ES                   Audft
Outcome                       Satsactoy             Stdsatory              Satiactory
Insehtonal Desownent            Partiad               Modest                Modest
Impacl
Sustinablity                   Ukely                 Ukely                  Likely
Borrower Prfokmance           Satsactoy             Satisfactory           Satisfactory
Bank Performanco              SatsfaCtDry             sactory              Satactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational
division of the Bank. The Evaluation Sunmairy (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to
independently verify the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Responsible
Tak Mnr   e            Dvision Chie          County" Dcto
Aprasal                      W. Cuddlhy               0. Fox               C. Madavo
Midtbem                     Phlflppe Boyer            G. Fox              Andrew Steer
Competion                   PhMllppe Boyer          Mark Wison            Andrew Ster






vii
Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Vietnam Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2561-VN) for which a credit in the amount of SDR 69.4 million
(US$96 million equivalent) was approved on January 25, 1994. The project closed on June 30,
1999, 18 months behind schedule. The project was extended to enable completion of extension,
plant protection, research, rubber rehabilitation, and institutional development activities. The
final total disbursed was SDR 68 million (US$98.8 million equivalent, 98 percent of the original
SDR amount). An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was submitted on June 28, 2000
(Report no. 20385)*.
The PPAR was prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) based on the
Implementation Completion Report, the Staff Appraisal Report (Report no. 12065, December 22,
1993), the Development Credit Agreement, and review of Bank files. The project was also
discussed with Bank staff, beneficiaries, commune officials, govermment staff at the central,
provincial, and district levels, and local staff of the Food and Agriculture Organization. The
cooperation and assistance of all stakeholders and govenmment officials is gratefully
acknowledged, as is the support of the staff of the World Bank Country Office in Vietnam.
The ICR is clear, informative, and well presented, although it leaves room for further drawing of
lessons. The main rationale for selecting this project was to assess the performance of the Farmer
Field School (FFS) approach to extension and the associated Integrated Pest Management (EPM)
elemnent. While a financially small component, this is the first time OED has carried out an
assessment of an FFS/IPM case - an approach which has evoked some controversy recently with
respect to extension efficiency and sustainability. Given the current dearth of successful
extension techniques and questions about the data this may warrant further impact study.
Following standard OED procedures, the draft PPAR was sent to the borrower for conunents
before being finalized. Borrower comments have been taken into account, and are included as
Annex B.
The bomrwa's conmnts in Annex B sggest that these cost figures need clarfication. However, the differences in
percentages noted in Annex B are due to tie fact that the figure of USS107.52 quoted by the borrower is the total
project cost figue not the credit disbursed figure and the percntages quoted here are SDR percentages not USS
paecentges. The SDRJUSS rate has changed. The borrower is correct that in USS temis the actual credit amount was
102.9% of the appmisal estimate.






1.     Background
The economy of Vietnam is predomimantly agraian and based on rice production. Farm sizes are small,
and holdings, especially in fte nort, are fragmented. The average area per fann worker is about a
quarter of a hectare m the nordh and about half a hectare m the south. In 1998, the average amnual income
of a rural household was estimated at about US$750 with income from agriculture proding about 50
percent of total income.
With the dismantling of coumimes and the hberalition of markets, a surplus of rice has become
available and Vietnam is now one of thtree top exporters ofrice in the world. Exports of rice
increased fiom about 1.4 million tons in 1989 to about 4.5 nillion tons in 1999. Cropping intensity for
paddy is now about 150 percent
The average annual growth rate of the agriculture sector since 1995 has been about 4.5 percent, fueled
mainly by diversification into high-value crops, increases in rice productivity, and expson of
cultivated area including iTigated rice. The most important industrial crop is estate rubber. Rubber
yields, although improving, are still low compared to other produces in the region. Other important
industrial crops include peanuts, jute, sugarcane, soybeans, coconut, coffee, tea, and mulberry for
sericulture.
The increase m agricultural incomes resulting from growth in the sector has been a main source of
poverty reduction in rual areas. But uban icomes have nsen faster, and the gap betweem nual and
urban incomes has widened. About 90 percent of Vietnam's poor live in nual areas and in 1995 the
incidence of poverty in rual areas was 57 percent, more than twice that of urban areas. Under-
employment in r    areas is high despite a high level of litercy at over 90 percent It has been estimated
that some 6 nillion people could leave farmng vithout affecting agricultral output
At about 6 pacent of the total govemment budget and about 5 percent of total agnculual oulput, public
expendtue in agricldure is low compared to other South and East Asian countries. Expenditure on
research iS particulary low at about 1.7 percent of public expditu  in agriculture and 0.08 percent of
agicdul GDP.
rigation absorbs a little over 50 percent of the agricultural state budget with about 85 percent dedicated
to capital expndiur. Cost recovery in irrigation, at about 50 percent of recrrent costs, compares
favomably with Thailand and Malaysia but is weD below the Philipl. The are still more than 5,000
state,owed enterprises (SOEs) in sugar, rubber, coffee, tea, seeds, livestock brdin  and fertlizers.
Thes we estima     to be responsble for about 45 percent of agricultural invesmnt About 40 percent
of all SOEs are clasified as profit-making but hiis percentage is considerably lower for food enterprises.
The main objective of the project, classified as a poverty tgeted internian (F),' was to support
govement efforts to mcrease rural incomes and to assist Vietnam's tntion to a maret economy.
This was to be done tough assistance to key agriculture institution sring the newly emerged
sullholder sectr and through support for the estate rubber subseetor. The project, the first World
Bank-funded project m the sector since 1978, was  pected to assist the ongomg adjustent fimn
coilectivized agiculture to smalUholder family fanmng through four main components aied at
1. This clasficaiof inTroduced in 1992, is given to a project if it has a specific meaam for bargting the poor (suh as a
foo sceuity component or a public wvorks adiem) an&dor if the proporton of poor people amog its beneficiaries is
signffi&mdy lae han dte pmportion of the poor in the lotal populaon



2
*      Rehabilitating agricultural support services by providing assistance to decentralized extension
in 23 out of the 61 provinces, to improve plant protection services including integrated pest
mnanagement, and to strengthen research in three key institutes. (16% of project costs)
*      Providing supervised credit to about 50,000 private smallholder farm households in 10
provinces to purchase fertihzer, improved seeds, and other inputs and to support on-farm
development works. (51% of project costs)
*      Rehabilitating about 160,000 hectares of established rubber of high potential productivity,
provide additional processing capacity, and upgrade the quality of rubber being produced
through construction of five new latex processing facilities and rehabilitation of four old
facilities.(34% of project costs)
*      Providing traming and technical assistance for policy analysis and preparation of follow-on
projects to give more specialized assistance to the sector and to develop a smallholder rubber
programn (about 10% of project costs but included within the above sub-sectoral components)
The project had some level of operation in 51 of the 61 provinces. It was seen as the first in a long series
of IDA projects to develop agriculture in Vietnam
2.     Findings
Tne project was relevant to the needs of the rural sector of Vietnam at the time of appraisal and, with
the help of some mid-course conrection, retaned its relevance. While substantially greater shifts in the
direction of liberalzation, poverty focus, and sustainability may have been beneficial, for a first
project after 15 years of Bank absence, and considering the substantial need at the time for quick
action and rehabilitation in some sectors, it represented a commendable start to a longer-term
programzIt pushed reforms modestly, but probably as far as a concern for borrower ownership would
permit at the time. Perhaps most important, it provided a relevant investment focus around which to
develop a relationship with government in the sector.
Efficay is rated satisfctory-in agreement with the ICR. The main objective of the project-to
support govemment efforts to increase rural incomes and to assist Vietnam's transition to a market
economy through support for key agriculture institutions-was probably largely met, although impact
data on incomes is limited. The nual finance component more than achieved its targets at good 95%
repayment rates (sitce then up to 98%/e) while stengtheing the institution and giving the institution
its first experience of large-scale rual lending to small farmers. Rubber rehabilitation achieved the
improved estate productivity planned and largely achieved the improved processing planned although
at higher costs than anticipated. The hvestock breeding component performed well. Substantial skills
development was achieved.
The efficency of the project is rated satisfactory overall though this is more difficult to rate because it
varies by component With respect to rural finance, it is now time to move forward on liberalization,
but again, over the period of the project, going with a state bank was prudent and has proved a better
experience than most public financial institution interventions. With respect to nrbber, it is doubtfiu
whether now, 8 years after the project started and 2 years after closing, continued publc sector
involvement is efficient However, the argument that, before considering privatization in the rubber
sector, the plantations and factories needed to be brought back to a reasonable level of productivity
and efficiency under the project, was not unsound. With respect to pest management, as discussed
latbr, and more fully in Annex C, there are questions about the efficiency of the small integrated pest
manarent (PM) component.



3
Institutional development is rated modest in agreement with the ICR. The failure to carry out the
study to reorient the organiztion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MR ),
which was highly relevant at the ime, was among the biggest weaknesses of project implementation.
There remain some broader institutional questions vwth respect to rubber and rural finance. Also the
effectiveness, efficiency, and particularly the sustainability of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
approach to project management is doubtful.
Sustainability-the resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time-is difficult to assess. On
balance it is rated likely but this is a marginal call. In this respect, an evaluation advantage in this
PPAR is that the mission was undertaken more than two and half years after the project closing date,
enabling reasonably good observation of the substantial proportion of activities that bas actually been
sustained up to this point. Nevertheless, in some components, resilience may now be threatened. In
the rural finance component and the rubber component, in the absence of lieralization of interest
rates, accelerated movement on privatization, and improved rubber prices, sustning resilience will
be difficult although, VBARD is still financially profitable. Govenmmets strong overall commitment
and budgetary constraints suggests the needed adjustments probably wiU be forticommg. They are
likely to be carefilly sequenced since this has been a particular concern of both the Bank and the
borrower. However, the pace is still slow.
With respect to the FFSIJPM component, a special focus in this PAR, efficiency and fiscal
sustainability are questionable. The Farmer Field School (FFS) approach has so far reached only 4
percent of Vietnam's farmers over about an eight-year period. Expenditure would have to increase
dramaticaDly to reach a reasonable coverage-sy 50 percent over ten years. Moreover, the impact
data raise questions about the extent to which FFSs have really achieved incmmental benefits and
about the extent to which FFS farmers have sustained some of the 1PM practices m later years.
However, there may still be the germs of some promise in the approach-which, for extension, with
few susbinable options, is important. Experimentation at lower cost levels is needed as well as frther
impact studies including better understanding of firmer to fiamer transmision.
This reporating project outcome satisfactory-is consistent with the findgs of the recnt OED
Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) that the performance in the nrral sector was satisfiatory.
LESSONS
I. Developing a poverty-related logical fiamework helps to clarify the poverty rationale. Poverty
focus is more than simply selecting areas where there is a high percentage of poor. (Tlhis project
had no logical fiamework matrix and suffered from that The aetent of explicit poverty focus
varied across components and the poverty design logic was not entirely clear or consistent. Pardy
as a result there was no monitoring of project income impacts. The PT label appeared to be more
an afterthought dtan a design premise.)
2. As decenUalization progresses, mechanisms to ensure sustmablty become m  a function of
reforms that deliver self-sustang instutions and cost recovery at the local level than public
expenditure commitment from the center which results m less predictable funding with increasmng
decentrliztion.
3. Alongside other OED evidence, this project raises efficiency and susainability questions about
the use of separte PCUs-prdy a function of donor prooedural demads. It may be more
efficient and susainable to have permanent project management departments, with a career



4
structure, embedded in existing ministries and sharing project management skills, including
procurement skills, across all projects.
4. Key elements in scaling up extension include maximizing farmer-to-fanner diffusion, enhancing
the capacity of farmers to develop their own solutions, cost recovery or privatization, minimizing
the costs of trainers through the use of farmer-trainers, and mass media approaches. Pilot
programs in extension systems should test alternative models with different extension intensities
to give information that can lead to lower costs and thus greater efficiency.
5. Projects with a number of components and PCUs, and complex links to provincial and district
PCUs, and with substantial challenges in procurement, could benefit from the use of
Computerized Project Management (CPM) systems to track and manage expenditure.
FuTURE DIRECTIONS -
For both the Bank and the borrower a number of issues call for attention in Vietnam in the future,
some of which are already being addressed under the ongoing Agricultural Diversification Project:
*  Following some progress on policy reforms and a period of  Support for research into
yield gains (which were, in economic terms, in the nature  technologies for intensification
of catching up to the production frontiers), agricultural  and diversification is urgently
technology increasingly will be a constraint to further  needed
development in Vietnam. While the mission did not have
the opportunity to focus on agricultural research, technology needs are evident at village level,
while farmer receptivity appears exceptionally high.2 Given the 7- to 10-year lag in technology
flow from research and the need for diversification, research system reform to improve efficiency
and increased investment has already been left dangerously late.
* Both the borrower and donors should consider revisiting the PCU arrangements, seeking options
for consolidation. Separate PCUs, even when coordinated under one body, may not be the most
efficient management arrangement.
*  Following the shift from centrally planned commune
governance systems toward increasingly participatory  Government staff need more
approaches at the village level, more priority should be  training in participatory
given to training government field staff and leading farm  techniques.
households in participatory processes.
* There are privatization options in the rural sector (in rubber, rural finance, and input supply, for
example) that warrant increasingly urgent exploration. However, since such decisions should not
be made on principle but on careful analysis of the efficiency of alternative options, and with
appropriate phasing and understanding of detailed implementation steps (often neglected), studies
of this issue in the different subsectors will be important prerequisites. Some relevant studies are
underway.
2. This is a classic example of the Ester Boserup thesis that changing land/labor ratios drive technology demand, in this case
the very small and shrinking farn size is driving an exceptional thirst for intensification technologies.



5
3.     Analysis
RELEVANCE
Relevance is assessed as substantial, although, as with many Bank projects of the early 1990s bearig
the PTI label, the extent of explicit poverty focus in the design was limited and no commensurate
poverty monitoring was included. With the benefit of more
recent understanding of the nature of rural livelihoods issues, it is  Poverty impact is likely but the
being increasingly appreciated that, rather than assuming that any  extent of explicit poverty focus
rural investment is pro-poor, more explicit poverty analysis and  was 1nifted--1onnlstent with
focus may be necessary. In this case, the extent of poverty focus  a mI label-a logical
of different components was variable. The Staff Appraisal Report  framework would have helped.
(SAR) predated the requirement for a logical framework that
might have shown up this strategic weakness, and it was not retrofitted. Mostly the various
components do not appear to have explicitly picked up the poorest provinces.
Although OED assesses relevance on the extent to which project objectives are consistent with the
current Bank and borrower priorities and goals (that is, at the time of evaluation), in this case, where
lending was being restrted after a 15-year bresk, weight must also be given to the relevance of the
design to the prevailing economic transition circumstances, in effect giving weight to the fact that
these were early tentative steps on a relatively unpredictable path of transition for the rural sector.
Thus, while significant further progress in the privatization of SOEs, including the Vietnam Bank for
Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD), and in cost recovery and privatization might have
been desirable, it is probable that such substantial strides in transition would have been unrealistic at
the time and counterproductive to borrower ownership. In other words, the Bank probably pushed as
far as it was prudent to push.
The relevance of the major switch from support for general crop extension to livestock, which
occurred after effectiveness at the request of the borrower at the highest level, is assessed as
substantial. It was argued that crop extension was, by then, adequately covered by government and
donors but that livestock support services, particularly artificial isemiation, needed substantial
and would be particularly relevant to the poor, including those with very little land.
This was wisely and rapidly sported by the Bank, an example of rapid supervision response to
client needs, although arguably evidence of some weakness in initial project identification and
prparation. While seemingly not an explicit decision criteria at the time, this late shift also happened
to lead in the direction of cost recovery in one of the easier entry points for cost recovery-artificial
insemination and veterinary services-useful early experience for later liberalization.
EFCACY
Overall, efficacy-the extent to which the project objectives
were achieved taking into accoumt their relative importance-  The objectdves - albeit
was substantld, although this is difficult to assess because  predominantly Input oriented
indicators were not established at the outset and objectives were  - were largely achieved
nore input than output focused. To recapitulate, the main  although Impact data Is
objectives, were to support efforts to increase rural mcomes and  lmited. Some targets were
to assist the transition to a market economy. These were to be  substantially exceeded.
achieved by rehabilitating agricultural support services, providing credit for smallholders,
rehabilitating state-owned nibber plantations and prwssg facilities, and providing trammg and



6
technical assistance for policy analysis and preparation of follow-on projects, including developing a
smallholder rubber program.
By component, the following were the significant achievements of objectives:
Extension for Livestock In 27 provinces, where the majority of the national herd is located, 5,200
extension agents, 2,365 cattle inseminators, and 25,000 farmers were trained. An estimated 470,000
households benefited over the five and a half year project period from the component as a whole.
These achievements were all above the original targets. The 360,000 improved calves produced was
more than double the target, and growth rates were 30-40 percent higher than the local breeds.
Extension advice was also provided on feeding and other husbandry aspects. A system of private
inserninators was set up. The cost-benefit ratios suggest substantial income gains to participating
households but no household surveys are available to confirm that.
Box 1. The Impact of Farmer Field Schools
Farmer Field Schools generally consist of a half-day of training every week covering a 12 week crop season for
about thirty farmers. A central element has been 1PM but they cover a wide range of aspects of rice husbandry.
There are questions about efficacy and efficiency. While insecticide use in many areas has been reduced and
yields have been increasing, this does not appear to be substantially attibutable to the FFSs. FAO surveys
indicate that farmers who attended FFS did not increase yields by much more than farmers who did not attend nor
did they reduce insecticide use by more. The mission found what appeared to be genuine enthusiasm for FFS at
the village level. This may be evidence of perceived benefits not picked up by the surveys. It may, however,
simply reflect high demand for a free good. There is also enthusiasm for FFS at the Provicial and District
govemment level. Tlhis may reflect a perception that FFS is an effective extension system However, it is difficult
to conceive of Provinces or Districts not welcoming this substantial donor support There are also questions
about sustaitabilfty. Over 10 years the national F!7S program has reached about 4% of farmers. It is currently
over 80% donor-funded. To reach a reasonable coverage, say 50% of farmes over 10 years, would require about
10 times the past level of total expenditure, and, in the absence of donors, about 40 times govermnents past
expenditure - alnost certainly unralistic. If famer to farmer transmisson were high, a low farmer coverage
might be adequate, but findings elsewhere, and mission field observations, do not suggest high farmer to farmer
transmission, although certainly some. Given the questions on susainability, it would have been valuable to have
had more experimetation over a range of depth and coverage, including, in particular, a high share of mass
media Reducing costs without excessive loss of knowledge transfer and raising cost recovery appear to be the
main future options.
Plant Protection. Some 68,500 farmer-leaders were reached through about 2,300 FFSs against the
target of about 1,600 FFSs. However, as discussed in Annex C and in Box 1, the FAO survey data
indicates that firners without FFS training but within targeted Provinces also reduced insecticide use
and increased yields. Box I addresses this more fully.           Loan volume in the credit
Agricultwral Research. While this was a small, "bits and pieces"  component was well beyond
component floating largely without an overall research strategy, it  target and high repayment
did lay some groundwork by training 2,000 scientists, equipping  rates enabled substantial
three food crop research institutes, and expanding the tial      recycUng. The public finance
program on rice. For 10 provinces, higher-yielding rice vuieties,  ins votuteon was largety
mcluding some new high-yielding hybrids, were released, partly   effective over the project
arising from project-supported work.                             period but policy and
Institutional reform are now
needed.



7
Rural Credit Component. This component, which provided short-term loans for crop and livestock
inputs (average loan size about US$280) and medium-term credit for improved livestock and
machinery to small-scale farmers, more than achieved its targets of lending with about 95%
repayment rates although, the household income impact is not clear. This was achieved through a
public rural finance institution-effective for lending in the early years but, with interest rate control
and imposition of additional tusks by government less promisig for sustainable rural finance in the
longer-term. There was more focus on rural credit than on rural savings. Most of the savings fumds
used as the source of credit were fumds mobilized from urban areas although savings in rural areas are
now increasing. Perhaps the most imnportant achievement of this component was that it gave VBARD
and Vietnam its first experience in small farm rural lending. It benefited an estimated 750,000 fann
households and as many as 2 million if recycled loan funds are included-an extraordinary scale of
lending achieved very quickly-partly due to the discipline of the organized commune system already
in place. Repayznent rates were consistently above 95 percent. (Under the follow-on Rural Finance
Project repayment rates as of May 2001 were up to 98 percent).
Rubber Rehabilitation. There was no intent to directly impact on short-term poverty with this
component. Estate and factory rehabilitation was expected to provide growth through improved
production and indirectly sustain longer-term employment but in the short-term excess labor actually
needed to be reduced. Improved productivity was achieved. In rehabilitating plantations, the period of
immaturity of rubber was reduced from 8 years to 6.5-7 years, meeting the targets. Average yield
increased by about 30 percent. Incremental rubber production from 1994 to 1998 was estimated at
around 50,000 tons. This has increased since then as more trees have reached maturity. Five new
factories were constructed and completed after some delays. Only one old factory was rehabilitated
since the cost was found to be high and anticipated quality improvement benefits modest. Factory
capacity increased by 48,000 tons, significantly below the SAR target of 74,000 tons. This was mainly
due to the lower number of rehabilitated factories, the smaller size of new factories, and the higher-
than-projected factory unit cost. Quality of processed latex improved, which has been important in
trying to hold market export share against strong competition. However, marketing remains a problem
with a recent slump in world prices. Eight rubber effluent treatment plants reduced negative
enviromnental impacts. The mission found the quality of construction of the factory and effluent
treatment plant satisfactory. Rubber research programs were supported in a few key areas. A
smallholder rubber production study was completed and provided a basis for the follow-on IDA-
financed Agricultural Diversification Project currently under implementation with generally
satisfactory performance.
Sector Management. A comprehensive training program for
the MARD was implemented. It trained 1500 officers, largely  The Bank should have taken a
achieving the targets. A study aimed at reorienting the mmistry  stronger position on the need for
organization was never undertaken, however, because of  the institutional study.
structural changes already underway. This was a serious
weakness in achieving the objective of supporting the program of liberalization in the sector.
Although some adjustment of the study objectives and timing may have been appropriate to
accommodate the changing circumstances, the Bank should have taken stronger action to sell and
initiate a modified study.
Efficacy of Consultants. The borrower/implementing agencies were happy with the quality of the
technical assistance consultants. Consultant recommendations reviewed by the mission appeared
generally sound - in one case excellent.



8
EFFICINCY
Economic Rate of Return. The ICR, while not aggregating the components in an overall project
economic analysis, found satisfactory ERRs or C:B ratios for all the main components, although the
analysis was limited in depth . This PPAR did not have the resources to develop a more complete
analysis but broadly agrees with the coefficients used. Based on the evidence presented it would be
unlikely that the ERR would be below the opportumity cost of capital.
However, this PPAR questions the economic efficiency of the FFS portion of the Plant Protection
component mainly on the basis of the FAQ study findings. As noted in Box 1, the study found that
non-FFS farmers also increased yields and reduced pesticide expenditure, although they did so to a
lesser extent than FFS farmers. Second, it found that after  Efficency of the smal FFS support
several years FFS-trained farmers shifted back to higher  compoient o  thest uncert
levels of expenditure on insecticides, although still lower  component is at best uncertah. a n
than before the training. As noted in the IPM Annex C, the  survesi yields were higer and
.. A . . . h~~~~~~Isecticlde use lower for FFS farmers but
findings of the FAQ study are at vaiance with the   non-FFS farmers in area without FFSs
widespread enthusiasm for FFS and IPM among fanners  also Increased  elds and reduced
interviewed and by the widespread demand for FFS    inse hdeuse. Aldso threde    d
training-but one would expect enthusiasm for the only  inSectigIde use. Also, three years after
extension option available. This training is now party  trainig, nseticide use had risen agahi.
financed by farmers and communes, but farm           There is idespread farmer enthusiasm
contributions remain very small. They should be rised  for FFS but ths does not test efficiency.
substantially. Two further aspects of the FFS efficiency issue, on which there is insufficient data to
pass judgment, are: (i) it could be argued that a share of the benefits associated with FFS tamiing
come with a significant lag through the enhanced capacity of famners in developing their own
solutions, for example by experimentation on their own plots; and (ii) there appear to be positive
environmental externalities but there is no data to place a value on them.
Rural Credt. The relatively low operating costs at about 4% and good recovey-now 98% suggest
adequate levels of operational efficiency. But profitability is still elusive. There is some subsidy to
beneficiaries because government controls interest rates, bas a scheme to forgive and refund to
VBARD loans in default under certain circumstances, and some administative activities are done by
govemment staff. There are therefore some longer-term financial sustainability questions. However,
over the period of the project efficiency improved and the financial strength of VBARD, initially very
weak, improved. Currently, VBARD makes a profit if accounting is done following the officially
approved Vietnam Accounting Standards (VAS) but not if it is done following International
Accounting Standards (IAS). Provisioning for bad debts was, and still is, too low. There were, and
still are, State Bank of Vietnam ceilings on on-lending rates, although cost of funds and operation is
part of the consideration in setting this rate. Briefly, the 2000 situation using IAS was approximately
as shown below:
Interest Expense as % of Earning Assets (EA) 4.9%
Cost of Operation as % of EA            4.1%
Loan Loss Provision as % of EA          4.00/O
Total Earnings as % of EA               10.9%
Profit/Loss as % of EA                  -2.5% (1999 was -0.4%)
As is evident from the above, there was a deficit in 2000, although this is reported to be somewhat
improved in 2001. (At the time of the project interest rates were, for most of the time, just positive in



9
real terms reaching a high of around 2.5 percent per month due to the higher inflation rate compared
with about 1 percent now.) .
The table below indicates some key elements of the Profit and Loss Account and Balance Sheet at the
end of the project in 1999 and 2000 based on Intemational Accounting Standards.
Us$ mOllon                       1999                            2000
Total Earnings                   267.4                           283.0
Total Operating Cost             43A                             103.6
Provson fr LOSS                  400,223                         204,019
Net profit after tax (taxed since profit  (9.0) (1996 - (38.3))  (64.9)
made by Vietnam account*ig
standards)
Total Assets                     2,621                           3560
Total Uabiltle                   2,540                           3545
Funds Empbyed (EquIty)           81.4                            15.0
Despite improving operational efficiency, there has been a decline in capital and reserves and
continued losses. Government policy is to move toward liberalization of interest rates, but there has
been limited progress to date.3 Discussions are curently proceeding on banking restructuring in
Vietnam, including VBARD, under the forthcoming Poverty Reduction Credit and associated with the
Rural Finance H Project. Ways to address the inherited bad debts are expected to be part of this
restructuring. Bank staff consider it unmlikely that VBARD could be sold to a private buyer as a single
entity due to its very large size, however, there may be possibilities for gradually selling off local
groups of branches. Obviously, there would be no buyer until interest rates have been freed off.
Cunently, a high level of about 85 percent of funds are mobilized from savings with only 10 percent
from donor assistance. Commendably, early in 1994, partly associated with systems and technical
support from the project, VBARD introduced International Audit Standards- a significant step
forward-which enhanced reputation and financial oversight. The next anticipated shift is to keep the
accounts in LAS fomat.
The economics of the rubber component was satisfactory. However, one efficiency issue is whether
the use of herbicide funded under the project for plantation rehabilitation was really warranted in a
situation of over-employment where SOEs were finding it difficult to reduce labor (although they
gradually achieved it). Hand-weeding of lalang grass rather than using herbicides funded through the
project may have been more financially efficient, at least until such time as estate labor levels had
been furter reduced. Based on a discussion at the estate level, this may explain why herbicide use
was lower than projected. It may have been an appropriate reaction by some estate managers to the
excess labor issue.'
3. The Bank's 1995 Financial Sector Review did not recommrtd, at that stage, allowing the market to detemine interest
tes because: (a) maccnomic stability was not felt to be yet strong enougb; (b) perforrance of the bankig sysun was
not sufficiatly sound; and (c) tder was concern that liberaliwtion might encourage a shift into more risky lendig ae
Some of those concerns should now be substantially dissipated, but ticy probably were valid over much of the life of the
projea
4. However, this issue is not clear-cut because unless hand-weeding is done thoroughly to get at deep roots it is likely to be
less effective than herbicide.



10
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Institutional development impact was modest, a rating also given by the ICR.
The mission has doubts about the efficiency of a
management structure using PCUs. There are longer-  Efficiency and sustainability of separate
term sustainability issues since PCUs come and go  project PCUs is questionable as it often
with projects and since staff tend to feel outside the  results in proliferation and duplication
mainstream of ministry function. While the use of  which it has probably done in this case-
PCUs may have been practical for a first project such  the solution lies partly in standardized
as this after a long Bank absence and with weak lead  donor procedural requirements.
ministry skills, donors continue to encourage separate
PCUs within MARD even today, often with part-time staff with other responsibilities. This leaves
potential for duplication of skills in management, procurement, and technical support. The alternative
of a department within MARD to manage mrual projects was floated several years ago by the project
director of ARP. This seems to offer a more institutionally embedded, efficient and sustainable
structure than the cunrent arrangement with an umbrella coordination committee5.
VBARD. Generally satisfactory institutional development was achieved within the limitations of a
public finance institution still operating under a number of government imposed constraints.
Significant improvements were achieved within the organization itself. At the time of appraisal
VBARD had been making losses for the years 1991 and 1992 (about US$4 million in 1992).
Profitability has now improved, partly due to increased volume and efficiency improvements-project
investments in institutional strengthening being partly responsible for turning this around.
Privatization and freeing of interest rates at the time of the project was not a realistic option for
rapidly achieving a substantial scale of small farmer rural lending. Therefore institutional
strengthening of VBARD as a public sector financial institution was entirely appropriate as a first
stage. However, as indicated above, now that rumral lending has become well-established there lie
ahead some important broader institutional development and policy decisions within the framework of
the current financial sector restructuring dialogue.
Training. The training advisors and training components supported by the project appear to have been
particularly relevant and effective. Outlines of training courses reviewed by the mission were relevant
and practical for the needs of subsectors. The human resource development components for both
General Rubber Corporation (GRC) and VBARD appear to have had a sigmficant impact on the
institutions and are paying off in the follow-on projects. Documentation of the training courses on file
is above average and may be partly attributable to the Bank skills
applied during supervision.
The Bank was flexible and
BANK PERFORMANCE                                             provided strong technical
skills, but the amount of
Bank performance was satisfactory. Preparation was strong and  procQrement carried out by
included sector analysis in collaboration with other donors. An  non-specialists raises
appropriate linkage was formed with the FAO IPM initiative, and  questions about the
there was a suitable degree of pragmatism by the Bank regarding  efflciency of the Bank's
what was realistic in this emerging economy. Supervision appears  skills mix.
5. The boower comms in Annex B that three seprate PCUs were needed for the three separate components in diferent
fimctional entities. Howeve, the PPAR here is suggesting that different manget PCUs wim MARD for different donor
projects may not be the most efficient and sustanable armmgement, although pragmatic at the time.



11
to have been flexible and quite creative. As noted above, the task manager reacted appropriately to the
request at the start of implementation for a substantial change in the agricultural services component
from the crop orientation to the livestock orientation, although the need for this may indicate some
weakness in appraisal of the extension component. In 1996, the files indicate that Bank technical staff
were conscientiously questioning the fit between training being requested under the rubber component
and the project human resource objectives. There were 14 supervision missions over five and a half
years, averaging more than two a year, a relatively high intensity. Skill mix was generally adequate-
particularly strong in the important training area and, in the early years, in areas of technical
specialization such as rubber. Some highly experienced Bank technical specialists from outside the
region were brought into the teams-technical Bank skills that are now in decline.
The large volume of correspondence on procurement in the project files, while not necessarily
reflecting the relative importance attributed to this subject by Bank staff, shows, as OED so often
finds, a huge routine procurement workload. One set of files over a fixed period taken at random had
well over 90 percent of the documentation on routine procurement issues, mostly handled by the task
manager at HQ. It is doubtful whether a task manager skilled at the design and supervision of rural
projects has a comparative advantage to perform work that could be more efficiently handled by
procurement specialists with procurement support staff. However, Bank performance on procurement
is not in doubt.6
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Borrower performance was satisfactory. Indeed, allowing for the absence of recent project
implementation experience, in some respects it was more than satisfactory. This was a borrower
starting to take a new direction with many challenging reform changes to be accommodated and new
skills to be learned. While better performance would have been possible in some areas-such as the
release of counterpart funds, the institutional study for MARD, and some areas of procurement-
ownership was strong from the start and skills were quite rapidly built although the legacy of that
remains liMrited given staff movement and retirements. The request at the outset for the shift in the
extension component toward livestock was evidence of proactive ownership that did not simply
acquiesce to a blueprint. On the negative side, in 1996, two years into the project, there were still
problems of funds release evident in Bank correspondence due to 'complex budgetary, financial
control, and fiund flow procedures."7 Procedures at that time were under review and they were later
modified.
SusrAINADILrfT
Sustainability is rated likely, but this is a marginal call. With two and a half years since project closing
the mission was able to observe some significant period of post-closing acual sustainability and
resilience. But ther are some sustainability risks. For the overall rating, given the relative scale of
components, the Rural Credit and Rubber components are the most significant and although, on balance,
both seem reasonably resilient, they both present stiability questions. With respect to components
the sustainability situation is as follows.
6. For example, the files indicate that prompt action was take on a procurment conmphint wher a poential bidder
demonstatd that technical specifications for an item of equipment limited responsive bidders to one equipn model
7. For example, the project files indicate that in 1996 funds for the FFS in four centmal provinces arrived some two months
afler the FFSs had begun and departments had to borrow finds from elsewhere or in some cases delay payments to trane
Some FFSs had to be cancelled.



12
Rural Credit. The component is rated as, on balance, likely for sustainability but this is a marginal call.
This positive assesmet is on the grounds that VBARD, within its Vietnam institutional setting of
strong government comrmitment, is arguably quite resilient, although still not profitable by International
Accounting Standards. It has been more successful at delivernmg flmds relatively inexpensively to large
numbers of farmers than most other agricultural banks in the region. However, it exhibits a recently
inproved but then agam, in 2000, weakened equity position. As aheady noted, it is squeeed by
goverment interest rate ceilings and other forced obligations which, while manageable in the short-tenm,
are not sustainable in the longer-term unless strong action is taken fairly soon. It is the mission's
assessment that, given Government's strong overall commitment and the current budgetary constraints,
the overdue action probably will be forthcoming over the next couple of years in association with the
new rural finance project. But there remains a risk. The project intention is to ensure improved
interest rate spreads, agreed procedures for setting interest rates, and elements of an overall financial
sector restructuring program. Anticipating lower taxation in future based on IAS rather than VAS
standards, to achieve an adequate spread is projected as requiring about another 4% on the interest
earnings - an increase that should be achievable. It has been assessed that the market for small rural
loans could bear significantly higher interest rates against the much higher informal rates.
Also of relevance to the sustainability question is that, in 1995, the goverment established a "Bank for
the Poor" outside the project to lend at subsidized rates to cormme-generated lists of those below a
subsistence level using some VBARD staff capacity. It is a very small operation comnpaed to VBARD.
World Bank concerns about demand-related impacts on interest rates and more generally about the
impact on institutional sustainability have been expressed. Although small, the "Bank for the Poor"
clearly represents some additional sustainhility risk to VBARD which needs to be managed. VBARD
have not always been reimbursed in a timely manner for this service. The Bank for the Poor results in
competition at village level on interest rates. While, its existence as a separately accounted entity may at
least help to keep separate the books of accounts to identify the explicit subsidy of this particular
operation, it cannot entirely enclave it.
Training is now sustained by own funds through a VBARD training center and training appears to be
continuing at a substantial level. The new Rural Finance Project, the successor to this credit component,
is progressing generally satisfactorily-supervision ratings are satisfactory across all criteria.
Rubber Component. On balance, sustmabiity is rated as likey, but, again, this is a margin  call.
Technical sustainability is not in doubt but there are uncertamties about financial susaibiity. Both
plantations and factories have been rehabilitated and/or built and are generally well maintained.
Producivity and quality are improving. However, there has recently been a period of very low rubber
prices and some SOE's are stnugglg financially. At least three SOEs are currently in arears on loans
from VBARD, pardy because, with current low prices, they have held back substantial unsold stocks and
have serious cash flow problems. However, in aggregate it is reported that the 10 companies supported
under the project made a profit in 2001 and the aggregate profit level has been improving since 1998/99.
The current rubber price situation would be serious for industry resilience if it holds for long at the
current low level. However, with low wages relative to competitors and yields and quality now
imPrOVing due to new planting and improved processing facilities, the Vietnam rubber industry appears
to hav a significant comparative advantage over the commg decade and a better chance of being
sustained than most of the higher labor cost competitors. Privatization is the next step now that improved
productivity has been achieved.
With respect to environmental sustanailty, there appears to have boen a violation of envionental
safeguard procedures but satisfactory performance. With the rubber procesing component, this project
should have been reported as a Category B project at the time of appraisal and Board presentation.



13
However, the effluent problem in rubber was given a full assessment and the mission found fully
satisfactory implementation in the field.
Livestock Component. In this component, sustainability is variable by province and district The mission
observed that some districts are continuing public fumding for artificial isemation services and some
doing much less. However, those districts where sufficient private insemmators have established a
fincially viable practice (generally charging US$1 per isemination for labor and tavel plus US$1 for
materials) have a reasonable chance of sustaiabiity since demand appears to be growing. Even if Al or
exotic bulls' natzal breeding were not sustined the genetic injection itself from the project will be
susabned with increasing breed dilution but compensated for by increasing spread. In other words,
genetic infusions are not, in fiact, lost, only diluted with each generation after the infusion. In AL a
fallback position being adopted in some Districts under reduced public investment after project closing is
slower genetic improvement but with lower overhead costs using natural breeding with improved bulls.
Plant Poteciion. The susainability story for Integrated Pest Management is complex. The current
Community IPM program (CIPM) is, in fact, being sustained quite well but with a high share of
funding from donors. The program, fimded by FAO and Norway but no longer by the Bank, covers 83
percent of costs; the remainder is covered by provincial and district governments, cooperatives, and
farmers. Most of the direct farmer funding is, appropriately, for the lower cost Farmer-to-Farmer Field
Schools. As of August 2000, 19 provinces had significant CIPM programs.
But m the longer term, allowing for inevitable donor  Only 4% of farmers have attended an
withdrawal, is this program sustainable? Over eight  FFS. To reach a significant number In a
years the Vietnam IPM National Program has trained  decade will caU for public expenditure
515,900 farmers. At a cost of about US$30 per farmer  beyond govermnent capacity unless there
including management, training and TA overheads , this  are unusually high levels of farmer-to-
represents a little under USS2 million per year'. This  fanner diffusion, ways to reduce costs still
would be about I pecent of the total budget for     further; greater cost recovery; and,
agriculture and about 4 percent of the recurrent    modest needs for "booster shots."
expenditures.9 Yet, so far the coverage of the program  Currently, the best may be the enemy of
has been limited. To date, only 4 pement of Vietnamese  the good. Reduced costs and greater cost
farming households have had a member trained in a rice  recovery are by no means unattainable.
IPM FFS although about 70 percent of communes have
had at least one FFS . To achieve say 25 perct to 50 percent farmer coverage over 10 years would
require about a five to tenfold increase in the level of expenditre at past unit costs, somenwhat less if
technical assistance and overhead costs per farmer could be reduced as skills and efficiency improve.
But this is not allowing for any 'booster shot" FFSs that would probably be needed to maintain skills.
It appeas therefore to be not sustainable in its present form at present sectoral resource levels without
a large increase in cost recovery. But, outcomes and sustinability cannot be easily assessed without a
clear understading of the indirect multiplier effect of FFS traiing. It is therefore extremely
important for the fiture of technology dissemination in Vietnam to test out lower cost altematives and
"cocktails" such as the IRRI experiment multi-media approach quoted in Annex C and to monitor and
8. The borower notes in Annex B that the costs of the IPM component of the project wee S1 8 per fimner. However, this
does not cover al dhe thaig, management, resec and TA overbeads to apply a FPS apprah. Estmates of only the
duect costs obtamed il the field came to earlly that fiure. The Mmission behes th the true fill econcmc cost with al
overheads is closer to about S30 but the fully costed figue does not appear to be known.
9. Irigaton absorbs about 50 percent of the agricultue budget, reforestation and land reclanalion about 1S percen4t and
foresty services about 10 percent About 60 percent is spent at the central level and the rest by local goveanment in the
provDne



14
understand how well the farmer-to-farmer transfer is occurring from FFS trained farmers and what
factors enhance it
With respect to envirnmental sustainability, the project reportedly had significant positive
environmental nmpacts in several areas: reduced insecticide use and some improved balance in fertilizer
use for adopting farners, and improved effluent management in rbber. However, there is no
environmental data on the 1PM impact.



15                                            Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
VIETNAM AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 2561-VN)
Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ milHon)
Appraisal               Actual or                Actual as percent of
Edimate                 cunent estimate          Apprail esimatb
Total project oosts             106.7                   107.52                   100.8
Credit amount                   96.0                    98.8                     102.9
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY34      FY95     FY96     FY97      FY98     FY99      FY00
Appraisal estimate                    5.0     35.0      75.0     96.0
Actua (US$M)                          0       65.4      72.6     88.3      96.5     98.4      98.8
Actual as percentofappraLs                     187       97       92       101       103      103
Date of final disbursement December 2, 1999
Project Dates
Orginal                          Actual
IniHating memorandum                                              7/90
Negotiatlons                                                      12193
Board Approval                   1125194                          1/25194
SignIng                          313/94                           3/3194
EffecIeness                      6/1/94                           6N194
Cosing date                      12131/97                         6/30/99
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual Weeks                        Actual US$000
Prappralsal                 124.2                               274.0
ApprIsal                    146.4                               371.2
Negotiations                19.9                                57.7
Supervbison                 168.1                               475.5
Completbn                   14.0                                60.0
Total                       472.6                               1238.4
* Superision began In FY1994
" AS of June 1999. no furter report was avaiable under SAP-Estimates Indude pardcpation of FAO/CP



16                                         Annex A
Mission Data
Dahi        No. of   3f f   S.ilzf.       Pwmmop    ,ufuig 7Amp of Pmb4sms'
(nnVWw      ,_       dyts h  ,eesend 
Appaiaal     Febnuary 1993  6       16      EAF.S
PostApprsal   July1993      2       18       E,F
Appnrisal                                                    NA                  NA          NA
through Board
AppWoval
Supervisn   March 1994      5       24  EAFAP.S               S                  HS           L
I           iJuty1994       6       22  A,T(2),S(2),Ex        S                  HS
Novenber        2       20  AS                    S                  HS           A
1994            2       8   A,F                   S                  HS         FPA
Febuary 1995    2       14  A,S                   S                  S           FA
May 1995        1       7   A                     S                  S           T.P
August 1995     7       16  A.T(2), L. S(3)       S                  S            F
Novenber        1       8   A                     S                  S            A
1995            2       15  AT                    S                  S           F,T
Februa 1996     3       19  AL.S                  S                  S            A
May 1996        2       14  AT                    S                  S          FAT
November        3       9   A,T,L                 S                  S            F
1996            2       7   A                     S                  S            F
may 1997        1       15  A                     S                  S            F
Januay 1998
Sept
1998
March 1999
Completion  Odobor 1999     2       14  E,A
Completion  Febary 2000     1       14  E
A-Agronornist,E-B-Eomit, Ex -Extensid., P-Foacial, L-Ivuok P-Procrament SSpeciaHt (e.& nabbf)
T= Tlribg/Inhimntzan
* FA0/CP Mission
Other Project Data
_oofMc           A  som.
FoLLou.OW_ON_                                              __n_
opealown                                       CQ Ft no.      Ama              Bow dteb
flS$ amOon)
AgiwAe Dlveaflon                                                           June 1996
Ifmgatin Rehabitafion                                                      Aprl 1995
Mekong Delta Water                                                         may 1999



17                                Anmex B
Annex B. Comments from the Borrower
MMISTRY OF AGRICUJ TURE              SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT                  Independence - Freedom - Happiness
Department of Planning                    Hanoi, June 5. 2002
and Projection
To:   Mr. Alain Barbu, Manager
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Barbu:
Re: Vietnam- Agricultural rehabilitation Project (Credit 2561-VN)
Comments on the Draft Project Performance Assessment Report
Thank you very much for forwarding us the Draft Project Performance
Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2561-VN),
including the Performance Audit Report, the Memorandum to the Executive Directors
and the President, and the Annex A, Annex C.
We realize that, it is very helpful for us to withdraw interesting lessons from this
very comprehensive and detailed PPAR, even two years after the Project Implementation
Completion. In general, we would have no objection regarding all parts of the PPAR,
including Principal ratings, Findings and Analysis. However, as being one among the
three Project Coordination Units as well as Project Implementing Agencies, we would
have some few detailed comments presented in the attachment hereafter.
We expect that these comments would be taken into consideration and will be
reflected in the final report that we will receive later.
Thank you for you kind cooperation and assistance.
Yours sincerely,
rTrang Hieu Dung, Director
Department of Planning and Projection
Ministry of Agriculture & Rural development
cc: Mr. Abdul Aziz Mohd. Yaacob, Mr. Andrew Steer, Mr. Mark Wilson,
Mr.Philippe Boyer



18                                Annex B
Attachment
CO6MMENTS FROM MARD
ON PPAR
1- Project final total disbursed
The Project final total disbursed was US$107.52 million equivalent, 100.8% of
the original amount (US$106.7 million at Appraisal estimate) as presented in the
Memorandum to the Executive Directors and the President and in the Annex A of the
PPAR. This figure is coincident with those of stated in the Bank ICR and the Aide
Memoire of the ICR Mission in February 2000. Whereas, in the Preface of the PPAR
it was stated that the final total disbursed was SDR 68 million (US$98.8 million
equivalent, 98 percent of the original SDR amount. We learned that the amount of
US$98.8 million is the IDA Credit amount and the percent of this is 102.9%
comparing with Appraisal estimate. Therefore, a clarification of this would be
required.
2- PCUs efficiency and sustainability
The use of three separate PCUs for three project components can -profiferule
partly to meet donor procedural demands" . But in case of the ARP, the first IDA
funded project for Vietnam Agricultural Sector, with highly diverse activities.
benefited by different functional entities (MARD, GRC, VBARD), following
different financial mechanisms for three different project components, the project
worked best with a separate PCU for each component. Obviously, it would be more
efficient and less difficult in implementation if a Joint Steering Committee would
have been established.
3- Institutional development
The postponement of the study for restructuring MARD during the late of project
implementation should not be assessed as among the biggest weaknesses or serious
weakness of project irnplementation. By the end of 1995, the three former
Ministries-Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries, Ministry of Forestry and
Ministry of Water Resources were merged into a new and biggest one- Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development. This structural change caused some difficulties
for the Sector Management sub-component to proceed the implementation this
study. Moreover, this complex and difficult study could not be completed in a short
time remained and with a very modest fund allocated for the Sub-component. At the
same time, by that time the on-going internationally funded project of Forestry
Sector Reform was already underway and the Public Administration Reform was in
the course of preparation.
2



19                                Annex B
4- IPM through Farmer Field Schools under Plant protection Sub-component
* The integrated pest management (IPM) is a main activity among the others
(general plant protection, plart quarantine strengthening) under the Plant Protection
Sub-component. The final total disbursed of this Sub-component. was 2.7%
(US$2,667,500 equivalent), in which IPM was only 1.2% (US$1,250,200 equivalent)
of the total project costs. IPM is an approach of multi-purpose, mainly for insect pests
control but not plant diseases and weed control. So, in most cases in order to avoid
losses caused by diseases and weeds, even IPM trained farmers have to spray
fungicide when certain disease was notified, and pray herbicide in case of high labor
cost of manual weeding (mainly in the South of Vietnam). It does not mean that the
IPM trained farmers are still spraying or increasing insecticide use.
* Under the ARP, 68,500 farmers were reached through 2,300 FFSs at a total cost
of US$1,256,200 (not US$2.61 million presented in Annex C), giving the cost of
US$18 per farmer (not US$38 in Annex C). The lower cost per IPM trained farmer
through FFS is because of the regulated low unit cost in Vietnam, but has never been
contributed partly by the trainees or the commune (as mentioned in Farmer Field
School costs and Extension Alternatives, Annex C, page 21).



20                                      Annex C
Annex C. Implementation of the Plant Protection Sub-component
Supporting IPM Through Farmer Field Schools
The integrated pest management (1PM) component, though only about 3 percent of total project costs,
is of particular interest because it is the first time OED has evaluated a new-generation of IPM
projectJcomponent. It is important for future Bank learning to draw lessons from new approaches as
early as possible. The extension method used-the Famner Field School (EFS)-is of interest in itself
as a technology dissemination method.
This analysis focuses on empirical evidence to the extent possible and atterpts to separate questions
related to IPM from questions related to FFS because the forner is an approach to integrated crop
maPnagement with an emphasis on pest management whereas the latter is a knowledge transfer
technique that could be relevant even in an entirely pest-free environment. It should be noted at the
outset that nearly all the survey evidence emanates from the various levels of the IPM support
program itself.
Bol 1. Integrated Pest Management
IPM is an approach to crop pet management, initiated in Vietnam in 1992 with FAO support, which follows
ecological prnciples. It is predominantly used on paddy but is expadig into other crops, especially vegetables.
So far, it is only used for insect pests not plant diseases. The aim is to exloit natural enemies of damaging insect
pests. It relies party on early season plant compesation for vegetative damage by pests. It does not avoid the use
of insecticides where needed but aims for reduced application consstent with maig yields and for
icreased pest specificity. Thus, it is intended to have environmental benefits off-site. It incorporates such
elenmes as pest-resisbnt variety selection, planting times consisent wth reduced pest damage, optimal and pest-
reducing planting densities and fertilizer application, and appropriate husbandry, including water management
aimed at pest reductian and plant vigor, and appropiate land preparation. It is generally supported by removal of
subsidies.
Pest Damage In Plots Using lPM Compared with Those Not Using 1PM
No evidence was found that the level of paddy pest damage is lower in those plots using an IPM
approach compared with those not using an 1PM approach. Generally, farmers not using IPM appear
to be spraying as fiequently as needed to maintain a substantially pest-free environent. The benefits
are therefore largely the pesticide cost savmgs.
ield Comparison Between IPM Plots axd Non-lPM Plot
The analyses available do not allow differentiation between IPM and non-IPM plots holding all other
input factors constant However, no one interviewed claimed that, from IPM alone, yields could be
expected to be higher than a fiul inscticde spray regime. The main differences noted were with
respect to reduced insecticide costs and (observed but not yet quantified) externality benefits. Yields
1. Bnefly, the methodology adopted mvolved surveys  Seven provinces whch surveyed sanple fmers the season befor
IPM  aig and die sane fams the same season afler PM training i.e. two seasons latr. For a smaller control group in
two ofthe provnces, sveys were undertak  of frmsm who were not scheduled to take part in IPM traing and did not
ltve h arew where an FFS wasplanned. This was carried out in the same season as the EPM group. The same control group
sample ws then resuveyed two seasons later as for bie EPM group.



21                                    Annex C
remaining the same following IPM reduced-spray regimes is consistent with IRRI research on
expei}mntal plots.
Costs Comparison Between IPM Plots and Non-IPM Plots
Using the data from the 2000 FAO study,2 and calculating the arithmetic average of actual insecticide
cost saving and percentage insecticide cost reduction reported in that document across the 7 provinces
surveyed, gives a mean insecticide cost saving after FFS training of about US$5 per hectare and a
pesticide cost reduction of 80 percent. However, in the two control groups of farmers-Quang Ngai
and Binh Thuan provinces-in areas where no FFSs were undertaken, farmers who did not attend FFS
showed a higher absolute cost reduction, although it was lower in percentage terms (66 percent over
the same period). Thus, it appears that farners not trained in EPM were also lowering insecticide
expenditure. The expenditure levels on insecticides are not a large part of the input costs and,
therefore, savings in that area alone cannot make large impacts on costs. Typically, insecticide before
1PM (see Table 5-12 in the FAO study) was about 3 percent of input costs including labor, or about 5
percent excluding labor. As a comparison, a 5 percent reduction in fertilizer expenditure (excluding
labor differences) approximates the cost reduction from reducing insecticide expenditure to zero.
There is a possible explanation for reductions in pesticide use beyond FFS training that may account
for the decline in non-FFS fanmer insecticide use. Especially in the north, Vietnam has been shifting
away from centmlly planmed control reaching down to the commiue level. Previously, spraying was
often determined by commune technicians who, responding to local district edicts, largely determined
when and how much to apply and probably had incentives to apply often and at high levels to avoid
any risk of being accused by superiors of letting an infestation get out of hand. Indeed, commune
teams often carried out the spraying for farmers. Somne decline in pesticide use right be expected,
therefore, as management decision-rnaking gradually returned to farmers. Communes are now
evolving gradually-but with wide variation between Provinces-into participatory community
groups (possibly benefiting from the history of discipline compared to community groups that have to
build from scratch). However, a counteracting trend in the incentives for pesticide application levels
has been the real decline in pesticide prices.
With respect to costs, there are also labor reductions, since less spraying takes less labor. However,
there are also costs in checking on levels of pest damage and generally managing the IPM technique
that may offset this. Unfortunately, there is no data in the surveys that allows the net labor change to
be calculated. However, the difference in total crop management labor excluding land preparation
transplanting and harvest between IPM and non-lPM farmers found in Chung and Dung 1996,3 could
not be more than approximately $4 (the total difference in hired labor for crop management and total
household labor for all purposes) and probably considerably less.
2. The npact oflPMFaner Felu Schools on Farmers'uQdton Practi in Their Own FiL. A report submitted to
the FAO In_county Progamne for Commnity 1PM in Asia. Jonathn Pincus, Economics Pepartm   School of Oriental
and Afican Studies, Univesity of Londbn. August 2000.
3. Pest Management in Rice Praduction in Vlenam: A Socioeconomic Assesment. Do Kim Chung and Kim Ibi Dung,
Faculty of Economics and Rural Development, Hanoi Agriculunal University. Hanoi Sqptember 1996. (Dr. Chung was a
consulant for the PAO study.)



22                                     Annex C
IPM Coverage Across Different Crops
Under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project the majority of activity was on paddy. However, there is
an increasing shift evident toward applications on vegetables, tea, maize, fruit, and sugar cane. The
relative scale of this shift is not yet clear from the data.
The Level of Interest of Different Stakeholders in IPM
Considerable enthusiasm for both the FFSs and EPM was evident during the village visits by the
mission'. There was also widespread enthusiasm among the provincial and district technical staff.
Observation suggests that farmer enthusiasm is greater for the FFS than for the narrower 1PM
technology itself, but both are seen as important. As discussed later, the FFS training has broad
coverage of all main rice husbandry topics over the 12 half day sessions through the season. The
interest at the farmer level may also be reflected in the growing number of FFS covering subjects
beyond simply rice, for example, on rat management, soybeans, vegetables, tea, fruit, maize, and
sugarcane. However, since for farmers, in most areas, there are no other alternative technology
transfer mechanisms to choose and since the FFS is usually free, it would be surprising to find
disinterest. It would also be surprising not to find enthusiasm among staff since the FFS program is a
source of substantial funding providing allowances, vehicles, etc.
Relationship with Commercial Pesticide Suppliers
Farmers at the village level had no major concerns about pesticide suppliers, neither did staff at
provincial or district level. However, FAO staff expressed concerns, and have done so in the past,
about suppliers wanting to sell more pesticide encouraging excessive spraying and working against
IPM. It is reported that some pesticide suppliers market insecticides as "safe for natural enemies"
when, in fact, they are not. Huan and Abubalar 2000 in an FAO supported study report that pesticide
sellers have been negatively affected by IPM. They found some who had had to seek alternative
sources of income by shifting to selling fertilizer, coal, and animals feeds to supplement reduced
income from pesticides following FFS coverage in their area. However, there is a substantial interplay
of incentives on this issue for the public sector, noted by Chung and Dung 1996, since the Plant
Protection Departments still play some role, although a decreasing one, in pesticide supply. On the
other hand, a main source of Provincial and District funding comes from the IPM donor-supported
program.
Environmental Externalities
Discussions with farmers, government staff, and FAQ, indicate that in IPM areas, after two or three
years of 1PM, improvements in frogs, snakes, fish, and snails has been observed. However, given
findings discussed below that non-FFS farmers also reduced pesticide use it is difficult to attribute
this to the FFS program although it might be attributed to reduced insecticide use. However, since
other pesticide use, mainly fungicides, increased in many of the surveys, and since some of these
other pesticides also have negative environmental impacts, it is difficult to assess net impact of IPM.
In any case, there appears to have been no systematic survey of these positive environmental changes.
This is surprising since there remain questions about financial sustainability and economics and any
4. Village visits, while not random, wee mostly spread across two different areas in the 4 provinces visited and the nission
was fiee to talk to any frners. The nission spoke to finners who had done FFS training and frmars who had not The
mison also spoke to trainers and commune officials as well as District stafl



23                                   Annex C
external benefits not picked up in plot-level net benefit estimates would be very important in
justifying any subsidy and/or continued high levels of public expenditure.
Farmer Field School Costs and Extension Alternatives
What does an FFS cost? How does that cost compare to alternative extension methods in Vietnam?
Under the ARP, 68,500 farmers were reached through FFS at a reported cost of US$1.26 million,
giving a cost of US$18 per farmer. However, this excludes some costs including a share of the
technical spin-off from the on-going FAO program, a share of the government program management
overheads at several levels, training costs, and other Technical Assistance. The full project supported
cost of the FFS alone, therefore, is unclear in the absence of a full cost accounting but was probably
closer to about US$25 to US$30 per farmer. But this has to remain a guess. It may be able to be
reduced over time. The direct cost of an FFS, including only salary, travel, equipment, free farmer
hand-outs and participant subsistence, which is often the cost quoted by staff in the field, comes to
about US$16 per farmer for a course of 12 half days, again suggesting that there are a number of
overhead costs missing from the US$18 derived from the project costs figures above. Given different
cost allocations it is difficult to compare the costs with other countries such as Indonesia or the
Philippines, where costs per farmer, including training of staff, MIS, and technical assistance, were
US$62 and US$48, respectively. Possibly Vietnam is a bit lower than either, but this is still
speculation. There is some evidence that costs in Vietnam are falling because -trained farmers, who are
paid lower wages, sometimes paid partly by the trainees or the commune, are increasingly undertaking
FFSs. About 20 percent of FFS expenditure over the recent 1998 to 2000 period was on FFSs where
training was farmer-to-farmer. (It is worth noting that the lower level extension staff incomes are
below the often-used global poverty standard of US$1 per day per capita.) Assuming that insecticide
reduction was attributable to the FFS (which the surveys suggest may not be a valid assumption) and
assuming that the longer term full costs, fall between $25 and $30 per farmer and assuming the need
for a "booster shot" raised this to about $40, the saving of about $9 of insecticide including labor
saving per season would give an adequate rate of return. But attribution of benefits remains the
problem if conclusions are drawn from the available survey data.
It is difficult to estimate the costs per farmer contact of alternative methods because there are no
alternative methods under wide application in Vietnam other than individual visits on request, such as
those undertaken by artificial insemination specialists and a lower cost audio-visual media approach
tested once in the south which showed some promise. While AI is an entirely different type of service,
the costs may give some indication of the cost of getting an individual extension officer to a farmer
and spending a short period transferring knowledge. Al services are now privately operated and have
a labor and travel cost of about $1 per visit (unsubsidized, direct charge to the farmer, semen straw
cost is additional). Since Al service visits are usually not more than an hour, including travel, and
assuming a farmer would need the equivalent of 12 timnes 4 hours of contact to equate to the FFS, and
adjusting the travel costs, the total cost per farmer of an individual contact private extension operation
would probably be around $35, but this is only the direct costs, excluding training and management
overheads. As noted above, the equivalent direct cost for an FFS is about US$16. So individual
extension is probably about two to three times more costly. .
It is unfortunate that, after nearly ten years there appears to have been no significant program of
experimentation with different levels of extension/training intensity. The FFS has evolved towards a
relatively standardized (nationally) 12 session program provided by trainers. Given sustainability
questions, better decisions on the difficult policy issue of depth versus coverage would have been
enabled by a range of pilots with more and fewer visits, longer and shorter sessions, broader and
narrower technology elements, larger and smaller groups, and larger and smaller proportions of mass



24                                   Annex C
media. In the absence of such experimentation, decision making is now constrained by limited
comparative cost/effectiveness data. One of the few alternative models with some data on outcomes,
but still little on costs, is a Mekong Delta program aimed at reducing insecticide use (Huan, Mai,
Escalada, and Heong 1999M). This program was presumably very much lower cost, but how much
lower is unclear. Farmers reached by the mass-media campaign as well as a FFS sprayed 0.5 times,
farmers reached only by the campaign sprayed 1.2 times, and those reached by neither sprayed 2.1
times. The FFS, over a period of about 5 years, had reached 4.3% of farmers and the mass media
campaign over a shorter period of about 3 years had reached 92%. The coverage of technologies is
substantially different between the two techniques with FFSs covering essentially all practices and the
mass media campaign, in this case, covering just insecticides, the yield differences were not
statistically significant (all around 6 tons). While these findings do not indicate whether, for a given
extension investment, one or other or some combination would be optimal, unless the mass media
campaign is extraordinarily costly by global standards, they do suggest substantial opportunities for
further exploration of optimality of outcome and sustainability, particularly in the direction of mass
media knowledge transfer. (Note that, in this study, with similar yields across knowledge transfer
treatments, the benefit was only in the cost saving on insecticide net of changed labor costs and in any
net positive externalities related to the number of sprays.)
FFS Beneflts
Unfortunately, the 2000 FAO study did not estimate net income changes for sample farmers in the
sample provinces from before to after FFS. However, it estimated a number of input and output
quantity and cost changes that can be used as approximations with some caveats regarding the
averaging of averages. The average increase in paddy yield across the 7 provinces surveyed was 258
kg per hectare after farmers attended an FFS. However, the long-term paddy yield increase in Vietnam
has been running at about 2.5 percent, which would give an expected seasonal increase on about a
5,500 kg per hectare base yield of 137 kg, leaving about 120 kg per hectare seasonal increment
attributable to FFS-valued at about US$22. Over the same period, expenditure on pesticides plus
fertilizer rose marginally by about US$7. This leaves a net gain for the FFS farmer of about US$15
per hectare per season. Ignoringfor the moment that non-FFSfarmers have also increased
production, at an average farm size across the sampled provinces of 0.42 hectares (influenced
considerably by the high 1.1 hectares of Dong Thap Province), this would give a seasonal net benefit
per trained FFS farmer of US$6.30 and annual of about US$12. Set against an initial FFS cost of say
US$30 to $40 per farmer (including "booster shots')calculated above, this would give an acceptable
financial and economic retum.
However, the same surveys showed that non-FFS farmers in areas where no FFSs were undertaken
had also increased yields and lowered pesticide costs. Yields in the two control-group provinces
(Quang Ngai and Binh Thuan) increased by an average of 115 kg per hectare for the non-FFS group,
about 140kg less than the FFS group. Costs of insecticide use went down by an average $1 I per
hectare, which was more than the US$7 reduction for the FFS group. Moreover, in the FAO study, a
group of FFS farmers in Dong Thap Province, who had reduced their insecticide expenditure from
US$4.5 per hectare before the FFS to US$0.15 the season after FFS, three years later had increased it
back to US$3.0. Thus, there seems to have been some reversion which, if it correctly reflects what is
happening, would reduce the benefits of the initial FFS investment. The FAO report argues that there
are problems with the selection of the control groups because of the great variation in local agro-
ecological conditions, because the control group may have been indirectly influenced by the FFS
5. Huan, N.H., Mai, V., Escalada M.M., and KL Heong. ( Changes in rice firme's pest ma tin the Mekong Delta,
Vienm." Crop Protcion 18, p557-563, 1999



25                                   Annex C
interventions, and because of differences in other investment influences including pesticide
campaigns by commnercial suppliers.
The impact evidence is therefore, at best, not conclusive. The FAO study could be interpreted as
showing that impact has been small. As noted, field observation suggests quite widespread enthusiasm
for both FFSs and IPM at the village level. However, as also noted, FFS is almost free given relatively
low opportunity costs for labor and low or zero cost recovery. Moreover, no alternative technology
transfer option is available on any scale. Unfortunately, since the FAO study, there does not appear to
have been further work to improve the sampling and coverage of control groups or to test different
intensity alternatives.
Breadth of Coverage in FFS
The mission had anticipated a relatively narrow focus on insecticide use but was impressed with the
breadth of coverage of technology issues in the FFS training program. Since the training takes place
every week over 12 weeks of the growing'season it covers the different stages of crop growth and the
problems associated with that stage. It encourages an appropriately holistic approach to managing the
paddy crop. A main aim is to give farmers a process of learning and experimenting for themselves
rather than deliver sets of messages. But the mission's observation was that the reality is a mix of
both. The FFS normally covers the following aspects:
* land preparation and timing of land treatments
* variety selection, variety pest resistance, and plant density (reduction of seed rates has been a
particular area of attention)
* crop establishment
* fertilizer selection and application and the association between nutrient management and
pests and diseases
* crop husbandry, including water-level management
* the use of pesticides generally and pest control techniques including reducing the serious
problem of rat damage
* insect identification including experimentation with "insect zoos" to understand pest/predator
balance and the field ecosystem with a view to reduced insecticide application and
observation techniques to assess pest and disease levels, for example, insect counting, bird
behavior observation, etc.
* simple experimental techniques such as comparing fertilizer rates through on-farm plot trials.
Financial SustaiabNty of FFSs
The current Community IPM (CIPM) program is being sustained through a mix of donor, provincial
and district government, cooperative, and farmer contributions. The World Bank is no longer
involved. In the CIPM program funded by FAO and Norway the share of funding by the two donors is
83 percent and the share by provincial and district government's, cooperatives, and farmers is 17
percent. Most of the direct farmer funding is for the lower cost Farmr-to-farmer Field Schools. Thus,
the program remains substantially donor-fimded. As of August 2000,19 provinces had significant
CIPM programs.
Over eight years, the Vietnam IPM National Program has trained 515,900 farmers. If the full cost is
about US$30 each this represents a little under US$2 million per year or US$ 1 million at the lower
operating cost figure. The.US$2 million is about 1 percent of the total budget for agriculture and



26                                   Annex C
about 4 percent of the recurrent expenditures6. However, the coverage of the FFS program has been
limited. To date only about 4 percent of Vietnamese farming households have had a member trained
in a rice IPM FFS. While 4% over 8 years seems way too little for significant impact, what would be a
reasonable coverage? Would, say, directly reaching 50 percent of farmers over a 10-year period be
appropriate or excessive? In the absence of more data on farmer to farmer knowledge transfer one
cannot answer that question. But scenarios can be estimated. To achieve, for example, the 50% over
10 years directly through FSSs would require a tenfold increase in the full cost level of expenditure,
or fivefold at the lower operating cost figure. This would call for a program that would take
app.oximately 40 percent of the recurrent expenditure in the sector or 20 percent at the lower figure.
This appears neither realistic nor sustainable. However, as suggested above, the issue of efficiency
and sustainability cannot be resolved without a clear understanding of the knowledge transfer
multiplier effect.
Extent of Farmer-to-Farmer Transmission
For every FFS farmer trained, how many non-FFS farmers benefit either fully or partially? This is an
important question with implications for financial sustainability. The data on diffusion in Vietnam is
insufficient to answer this question and it warrants study. In the Philippines, a still to be published
study (by Rola et al 2002-personal communication) appears to have found no differences between
neighbours of FFS graduates and farmers in villages where no one was trained in the FFS. Mission
observation at the village level suggests that diffusion of knowledge related to IPM may be occurring
but probably not beyond a ratio of I to I or 1 to 2 and even then probably not without a significant
transmission loss of quality. Indeed, there is some indication in the field that farmers who have had
FFS training may need what might be termed a "booster shot" after about three years. This would
further increase the cost. However, it could be argued that, as technologies are advancing, 'booster
shots" could be expected to not simply slow the degeneration of technical knowledge but top up with
new, more recent, knowledge, and thus be attributable at least partly to future benefit streams.
Moreover, they may be less necessary where farmers are being taught to do their own experimentation
and technology development as opposed to simply receive technical messages.
Level of Cost Recovery
Data is limited on the level of cost recovery from farmers, but it appears to be extremely low. It is
probably well below 1 percent, including both direct collection and commune funding. Over 1998 to
2000 approximately 17 percent of community IPM activities were funded by provincial and district
governments, cooperatives, and farmers together, but a small share of that appears to have been
contnbuted by communes or farmers. The mission did find that in some villages farmers are collecting
small contnbutions for EPM activities. This has been also found in surveys. A third of a kilogram of
paddy seems to be a conmon community-agreed collection level (see Hoan and Momales-Abubakar
2000), about 5 US cents per farmer. This would cover only a small fraction of the costs of FFS
training, really just a token.
Conclusion
Based on the FAO analyzed survey data available, including the control groups, farmers who attended
FSS do not appear to have increased yields by much more than fanners who did not attend nor did
6. ITigation absorbs about 50 percent of the agriculture budget, reforestation and land reclamation about 15 percent, and
forty services about 10 percent About 60 percet is spent at the central level and the rest by local goveranent in the
provinces. (Lcves of exendue on research a ectremely low compared to other Asian countries).



27                                   Annex C
they reduce insecticide use by more. Therefore, the jury is still out on efficacy and efficiency of the
FFS approach in Vietnam. There is what appears to be genuine enthusiasm for FFS at the village
level. This may be evidence of perceived significant incremental benefits by farmers which have
simply not been picked up by the surveys due to methodological problems related to the controls. It
may reflect the fact that any costless (to the farmer) technology-based extension assistance is more
than welcome and this is the only option being offered. It may also reflect simply the satisfaction with
the social status conferred on those who attend first. There is also enthusiasm for FFS at the
Provincial and District level. This may reflect a perception that FFS is an effective and efficient
extension system. However, given the level of donor funding earnarked for this particular approach it
is also difficult to conceive of Provinces or Districts doing anything other than receiving it warmly.
Sustainability of the overall program, and thus also the portion covered by the project, is questionable
so far with only about 4% of farmers attending FFS over 10 years and with little possibility of raising
the level of expenditure with governments own fumds. Indeed, once donors pull out the rate of FFSs
per year is likely to fall unless they are paid for by farmers. There is also uncertainty about the extent
to which "booster shots" for previous FFS attendees will be needed to maintain skills in either the
process of learning or the technologies themselves. While sustainability and efficiency concerns are
not unrecognized by some involved in the program, a frequent question is: "But what else is there?"
As noted above, the experiments evaluated by IRRI in the Mekong Delta using mass media have
achieved over 90% coverage over three years at lower cost with significant impact on insecticide use7.
In these experiments significant impact on insecticide use was achieved and between 1994 and 1997
15 provincial govenmments initiated their own programns along similar lines. The total costs for all the
15 provinces are reported as being US$15 1,000 to distribute 340,000 leaflets and 35,000 posters, and
to organize 1,390 demonstrations and broadcast a radio drama 1,550 times. All this, it is claimed,
reached to some degree about 2 million farm households. About 356,000 farmers were invited to
participate in the experiment. While difficult to compare in a C:B ratio context with the FFS
technique, on the face of it this appears to be a much lower cost technique with significant impact
since the mean number of sprays applied declined from 3.35 per farmer in the first 40 days after
spraying to 1.56 at 18 months after the campaign implementation. Moreover, a year later applications
were still at the relatively low level of 1.76. While FFS protagonists would argue that such an
approach does not deliver the benefits of an FFS, so far that is not strongly supported by the data.
Such lower cost approaches may be an important avenue for further exploration. Resource constraints
may dictate either modest technology gains and skills for 90% of farmers or substantial gains for 5% -
or maybe something in between. At present, sustainability only appears to be realistically within reach
if much lower costs can be achieved - which probably calls for a much greater share of mass-media-
or much greater cost recovery from farmers.
Unfortunately, neither the project being evaluated nor the broader donor-supported FFS/IPM program
that is still on-going appears to have experimented enough to understand the costs and benefits of
options at different farmer cost levels. Experiments might include several alternatives of depth versus
coverage such as more or fewer visits, longer or shorter sessions, broader or narrower technology
elements, larger or smaller groups, and, in particular. larger or smaller share of expenditure on mass
media. Greater program experimentation would have enabled better "ranging" to approach closer to
some level of optimal efficiency and sustainability.
7. see Communications And Behaviour Change In Rice Fanners Pest Management: The Case Of Usng Mass Media In
Vietnam by Ecalads, Heong, Huan, and Mai. Journal of Applied Connmicadions, Vol 83, No. 1, 1999















IMAGING
Report No.:         24291
Type:      PPAR



