Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12065-VN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VIET NAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 22, 1993
MICR?OGRAPHICS
B'eport Nc:        12065 VN
Type: SAR
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department i
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CU.RENCY EOUIVALENTS
(December 1993)
Currency Unit     =      Vietnamese Dong (VND)
US$1     =      VND10,700
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
Government:  January 1   - December 31
IDA-  July 1      - JLne 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BAD         -     Bank for Agricultural Development
ERR         -     Economic Rate of Return
FAO         -     Food & Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FRR         -     Financial Rate of Return
GOV         -     Government of Viet Nam
GRC         -     General Rubber Corporation
HYV         -     High Yielding Variety
IPM         -     Integrated Pest Management
MAFI        -    Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries
RRIV        -     Rubber Research Institute of Viet Nam
SBV         -     State Bank of Viet Nam
SOE         -     State Owned Enterprise
SRC         -     State Rubber Company
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Program
VBA         -    Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture
VIGECAM     -     General Corporation of Agricultural Materials and
Fertilizer Marketing



FOR OMCL4L USE ONLY
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary  ... .  .  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  iii
I.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  1
Agriculture in the Economy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Sector Strategy ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  3
IDA Assistance to Agriculture in Viet Nam . . . . . . . . .    4
II. PRIORITY SUBSECTORS FOR REHABILITATION . . . . . . . . . . . .     5
A. Smallholder Farmers . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .      5
B. Rural Credit  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     7
C. Rubber Production ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  11
III. THE PROJECT ........................ .                           13
A. Project Objectives and Rationale  . . . . . . . . . . . ...    13
Project Origin and Preparation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Rationale for IDA Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Project Objectives and Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
B. Detailed Features ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  15
Agricultural Services ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  15
C. Rural Credit  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  17
D. Rubber Rehabilitation ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  18
Institutional Development of the Rubber Sector  . . . . . .   20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Viet Nam in
February 1993 which updated an earlier preparation report. The mission comprised
Messrs. W. Cuddihy (Task Manager), Ph. Boyer (Tree Crop Specialist), J. Tillier
(Cons./Financial   Analyst),   Ph.   Judd   (Cons./Extension),   D.   Taylor
(Cons./Marketing), and D. Graham (Cons. /Rubber Processing). A post-appraisal
mission consisting of W. Cuddihy (Task Manager), A. Chupak (Credit Specialist),
and J. Tiller (Cons./Financial Analyst), finalized project proposals in
July/August 1993. Peer reviewers were J. Halpern (Institutional Development),
J. Yaron (Credit Specialist) and Y. Choi (Extension). Mr. C. Madavo (Director,
EA1) and Ms. Pamela Cox (Chief, EAlAN) also endorsed the project. Assistance in
preparing the documents was given by Saraswathi Sundaram and Sarian Wilkinson.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients on- in thI ,ierformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wi.* -. .k authorization.



* ii -
Pacre No.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               21
Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              21
Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              22
On-Lending Arrangements ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  23
Procuremnent ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  24
Disbursement   ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  26
Accounts and Audits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              27
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               27
Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              27
Implementation Details   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             28
Agricultural Services ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  28
Rural Credit   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             29
Rubber Rekabilitation ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  30
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . .              30
Projec'. Implementation Schedule ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  31
Environmental Effects .................. .                               31
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION         . . . . . . . . . . . . .          32
Production Benefits ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  32
Marketing and Prices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              33
Price Competitiveness of Vietnamese Rubber  . . . . . . . .              34
Impact on VEA's Financial Performance ...  .          .  .  .  .  .   .  .  34
Cost Recovery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              35
Project Risks ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  36
Economic Analysis ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  36
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . .               37
Agreements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             37
Conditions of Effectiveness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              38
Conditions of Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              38
Recommendation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             38
ANNEXES
1.  Project Cost Tables   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               39
2.  Project Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               53
3.  IDA Supervision Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               57
4.   Implementation Schedule   ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  58
5.  Support Services  .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               59
6.  Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               65
7.  Institutional Development Program for VBA   . . . . . . . . . .               80
8.  Rubber Production   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               85
9.  General Rubber Corporation and SRCs   . . . . . . . . . . . . .              102
10. Rubber Rehabilitation - Economic Analysis   . .                              1 . . . . . . .  l05
11. Smallholder Farm Income Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              106
12. International Consulting Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              107
MAP      IBRD 24879



- iii -
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Sunmary
Borrower                Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Beneficiary             Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture (VBA)
Credit Amount      :   SDR69.4 million (US$96 million equivalent)
Terms                   Standard IDA with 40 years maturity, 10 years grace
Relendinat Terma    : SDR18.9 million (US$26.1 million equivalent) passed on
as Government's contribution to VBA equity; SDR18.9
million (US$26.1 million equivalent) as a loan to VBA
with a maturity of 20 years at a variable interest rate.
Prolect Description:    The objectives of the proposed project are to support
Government efforts to increase rural incomes and to
assist Viet Nam's transition to a market economy through
assistance to key agriculture institutions serving the
newly emerged smallholder sector and to rubber
production. It would be the first project in the sector
since  1978  and  would:       (i)  help  rehabilitate
agricultural support services by providing assistance to
decentralize extension in 23 provinces, to improve plant
protection   services   including   integrated   pest
management, and to strengthen research in three key
institutes; (ii) provide supervised credit to about
SO0,000 private smallholder farm households in 10
provinces to purchase fertilizer, improved seeds and
other inputs, and for on-farm development works; (iii)
rehabilitate about 160,000 ha of already established
rubber  of  high  potential  productivity,   provide
additional processing capacity and upgrade the quality
of  rubber  being  produced  in  Viet  Nam  through
construction of five new latex processing facilities and
rehabilitation of four old latex facilities; (iv)
provide training, and technical assistance for policy
analysis and preparation of follow-on projects to give
more specialized assistance to the sector and to develop
a smallholder rubber program.
Be-nefits          : The project would  assist the on-going adjustment from
collectivized agriculture to smallholder family farming.
Project benefits would include improved incomes for some
50,000 smallholders through use of supervised credit,
extension and plant protection services supported by
research. The IPM program would reduce use of chemical



- iv -
pesticides. A typical smallholder beneficiary making
full use of the services under the project could expect
to increase net farm income from about US$200 per year
to almost  US$400  per  year  through pesticide  cost
reduction,  yield  increases  and  changed  cropping
patterns. Rubber exports would increase by 65,000 tons
over 1994 to 1996, representing a gain of about US$60
million. Institutional benefits would include putting
VBA on a sound financial basis, improving planning and
management of the agriculture sector, and establishing
a satisfactory network of nucleus estates to provide
technical assistance and market services for existing
and future rubber smallholders. As the project is the
first !DA supported agricultural operation in 15 years,
the main project risks are limited institutional
experience and budgetary shortages. In order to reduce
risk and uncertainty the project includes substantial
assistance to develop institutional capacity and has
been designed according to Government of Viet Nam's
funding priorities.
Estimated Costs:a/
Local          Foreiqn       Total       F.Ex.t
-U--------------US$ Million-------
Comoonent
Agricultural Services           8.0              7.3        15.3          48
Rural Credit                   26.5             28.5        55.0          52
Rubber Rehabilitation           7.0             27.3        34.3          so
Base Costs                  41.5             63.1       104.6          60
Price Contingencies             0.6              1.5         2.1          69
Total Proiect Costs         42.1            64.6        106.7          61
Financina Plan
IDA                            33.7             62.3        96.0          90
Government k/                   8.4              2.3        10.7          10
Total                       42.1            64.6        106.7         100
Estimated IDA Disbursements
FY94           FY95          FY96       FY97
Annual                         5.0             30.0         40.0        21.0
Cumulative                     5.0             35.0         75.0        96.0
Economic Rate of Return:         ERR 52* for Rubber Rehabilitation



Poverty Catetory:                Program of Targeted Interventions.  The credit
and agricultural extension components address
the needs of smallholders.   The smallholder
sector   contains   a   significantly   larger
proportion of poor people than the country's
population  as  a  whole.    Extension  would
increase intensification and diversification
opportunities and credit would enable these
income raising measures to be implemented.
IBRD No. 24879
a/ Exclusive of taxes and duties estimated at US$14 million.
k/ Government contribution includes contribution from Viet Nam Bank for
Agriculture and State Rubber Companies.



SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
1.1       Introduction.  Viet Ram is the poorest country in East Asia and one of the
poorest countries in the world with a par capita income of less than US$200 equivalent
(1992). The economy is predominantly agrarian and is based on rice production for
domastic consumption.   In 1992, farming provided jobs for some 65% of workers and
generated 40% of GDP and almost 50% of exports.  For an agrarian society with few
alternative income opportunities, the cultivated area per capita of only 0.1 ha is
very low.   Farm sizes are small and holdings, particularly in the north,  are
fragmented. The average area per actively engaged farm worker is about 0.24 ha in the
north and 0.46 ha in the south.   Employment conditions  in agriculture have
deteriorated in recent years as the sector has had to absorb most of the more than 1
million demobilized military personnel and former state employees released by civil
service reductions.
1.2       The agricultural sector has played the lead role in the transition to a
market economy.   Economic liberalization began with the realization that with a
population growing faster than food production and national income, Viet Nam would
soon be in a position where it could not guarantee the food supply.   With the
dismantling of the communes and the liberalization of markets, not only has the food
supply become adequate but a surplus has become available for export propelling Viet
Nam from being a net importer of rice to being one of the top three exporters in the
world. However, the production response so far has been limited mostly to rice and
mostly to the Mekong Delta.  Elsewhere, agricultural performance remains constrained
mainly by smn.ll farm size, limiting savings for on-farm investment and insufficient
credit and other support services. In addition, the relentless pressure on natural
resources has led to an overall deterioration in the production and conservation
environment. This coupled with continuing population growth calls into question the
sustainability of the food surplus and, for the longer run, basic food security.
1.3       Production.  The most important crop is rice, mainly grown with irrigation.
Of the total land area of 33 million ha, about 7 million ha (21%) is cultivated with
2 million ha served by irrigation facilities for multiple cropping.   The area
cultivated for paddy is about 4.5 million ha and is cropped at an intensity of 140O
annually. Average paddy yields of 3.5 tons per ha for a mostly irrigated system are
low in comparison with neighboring countries. Other major food crops are maize, sweet
potatoes and cassava. In 1992, production of food crops was estimated at about 24
million tons (paddy equivalent), up from 14 million tons in 1980. Paddy production
accounted for about 22 million tons of the output and almost all the growth.
1.4       The most important industrial crop is estate rubber planted on some 200,000
ha (1992 estimate) of which almost half are immature. Yields average about 715 kg per
ha annually which are low compared to other producers in the region and quality is
relatively poor.   Other important industrial crops are peanuts, jute, sugarcane,
soybeans, coconut, coffee, tea and mulberry for sericulture. Tree crops form the core



- 2 -
of the Government' s program to develop the Central Highlands to ease population
pressure on the lowlands, particularly the Red River Delta, and to curb
environmentally devastating shifting cultivation. Over the long run, aggregate output
has increased steadily but growth has been uneven over the shorter run periods and is
dominated by rice.
1.5       Growth.  The value of agricultural output at constant prices grew at an
annual average of 6.3% during the Third Plan period (1981-85), then fell to only 2,2%
during the Fourth Plan period (198f -90), probably less than the growth rate in
population estimated at well above 2% per annum and well below the growth rate in the
rural labor force. In the final years of the Fourth Plan, the gross value of sectoral
output rebounded in response to acceleraced paddy production. Over the long-run the
sectoral trend has been for steady output growth for paddy emanating from yield
improvements and irrigated area expansion while for other crops yield growth has been
slow and planted area growth often negative as better lands were switched to paddy.
The major limits to aggregate groi"th have been the low level of investment in the
sector, disruptions caused by collectivization of family farms, and a discriminatory
agricultural pricing policy to ensure cheap food for industrialization. Shortages of
fertilizers, other inputs and farm credit have constrained response to other measures
to increase yields, such as use of high yielding varieties (HYV) of rice. Chemical
fertilizer consumption for example averages around 60 kg per cropped hectare, about
one-third the expected amount. Faced with the problem of slow growth relative to need
and potential, the Government is implementing a program of far reaching reforms in tre
sector. Response to the changes has been marked with a 30* increase in paddy output
from 17 million tons in 1988 to 22 million tons in 1992, and Viet Nam switched from
importing around 500,000 tons of rice per year in the mid-eighties to exporting an
average of 1.5 million tons of rice per year over the period 1989-92.
1.6       Acaricultural  Policy.    Viet  Nam's  economic  policy  was  substantially
reoriented in 1989 and with it agricultural policy underwent fundamental change. Key
farm policy objectives remain to ensure food security, provide new income and
employment opportunities to eliminate poverty and to generate foreign and domestic
savings to finance modernization of the economy. Until the recent changes, key policy
in;3truments used to achieve plan targets were collectivized organization of
production, state-owned marketing monopolies, and price administration. Following
worsening food supply problems in 1986, the Sixth Party Congress introduced a series
of fundamental reforms ending price control and re-establishing the farm household as
the basic unit of production (Decree No.10, 1988). New land tenure regulations
guaranteed farmers 15 years of occupancy for short-term crops and 30 - 50 years for
tree crops. Compulsory sale of farm produce to the state ended in 1987 together with
the other product marketing controls. Since then, further reforms have ended state
monopoly over price and supply of inputs and a new land law has been promulgated Y.
1.7       Public Sector Institutions.  Public sector administration in agriculture is
the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries (MAFI). MAFI
is responsible for sectoral planning and policy implementation, sector regulation, and
provision of extension, research and other services. In addition, MAFI controls a
number of state-owned enterprises (SOBs) that are involved in production, processing
1/    For a full treatment of economic change see, Viet Nam: Transition to the Market.
An Economic Renort, World Bank, September 15, 1993, Report No. 11902-CN.



- 3 -
and marketing of farm products as well as others involved in import and distributior.
of farm inputs. At the local level, MAFI is organized along provincial and district
lines.  Provincial authorities also maintain a network of state-owned enterprises
involved in production ana trading. The state-owned Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture
(VBA) is the largest institutional source of agricultural credit (para. 2.12).
1.8       Institutional Reform.  Public institutions have undergone major change with
the disbanding of collectives and high level production cooperatives and the return
to family farming. MAFI was reformed from a combination of three former ministries,
many of its departments have been merged or otherwise reorganized, and a large
proportion of staff have been sent to provincial postings under the administrative
jurisdiction of local authorities who are also responsible for paying their salaries.
Some SOEs in the sector have been closed down while others have been restructured.
The majority, though, are undergoing review by a high-li-evel task force and face an
uncertain future. While the central government is clearly moving out of production
and trading, local government enterprises retain a major presence and in certain
aspects continue to crowd out the private sector. For example, fertilizers until
recently were exclusively imported by MAFI's General Corporation of Agricultural
Materials (VIGECAM) and distributed through the provincial companies to collectives,
state farms and other production units. VIGECAM now handles only some 20%-30% of
fertilizer imports and a multiplicity of provincial trading companies imports the rest
which is mainly distributed to farmers by private traders who are themselves not yet
permitted to import. Similarly, rice is now exported by some 40 provincial state-
owned companies.
Sector Stratecv
1 9       The policy objective is to increase sustainable production and broaden its
base while improving rural incomes.   The key focus of Government's agricultural
strategy is the transformation of institutions supplying services to smallholders.
Dismantling collectives and freeing markets proved to be relatively quick and simple
and produced a remarkable adjustment response. Translating this into long-run growth
will require sustained on-farm investment, increased availability of credit and
adapted technology, and improved information flow to farmers.
1.10      Probably the most important constraint on increasing production and incomes
has been the shortage of formal credit for farm development and for purchase of
quality seeds, fertilizers, plant protection materials and other current inputs with
most transactions for these items occurring in cash. The Government has begun to
address smallholder credit needs through the establishment of the Viet Nam Bank for
Agriculture (VBA), and the amount of credit provided rose from US$33.0 million
equivalent in 1991, the first year of the program, to US$236 million equivalent in
1992. However, the credit coverage was estimated at only some 10% of total number of
potential farmer clients and virtually no medium and longer term funds are being
provided. Expansion of VBA coverage is restricted by shortage of staff skilled in
agricultural development banking as well as by financial resources.
1.11      The extension service was restructured in 1993, moving away from being an
adjunct to the centrally planned production system towards a provincially based
service to smallholders. Coverage remains only partial at best and means of making
the extension service truly responsive to smallholder needs are being considered.
Plant protection and research services are also being adjusted. Of particular note



is the recent creation of a separate Plant Protection Department which has already
begun implementation of an Integrated Pest Management (IPM) program in paddy
production with a marked reduction in the use of chemical pest control methods by
participating smallholders without yield reductions and with substantial cost savings.
The s'astained success of the IPM program, though, remains at risk because of the
shcrtage of funds to carry ouW the research fundamental to the local adaptation of the
technique.
1.12      With such a large proportion of all households dependent on agriculture, the
Government attaches high priority to farm income stabilization, particularly through
reduction of weather-related and market risks. In 1991, a major drought in the north
reduced paddy production by 15% and, in 1992, a bumper crop in the south caused a 20%
drop in prices. Strategies to deal with rlsk include irrigation development, crop
diversification and downstream processing. At the national level, policy attention
is beirng given to the need to diversify agricultural export income, particularly
through rehabilitation and expansion of existing perennial crops such as rubber and
coffee and the development of sericulture.
1.13      one result of the increased population pressure on natural resources has
been the reduction of Viet Nam's forested area from 40* of total land area to 25% of
total land area in the past two decades. Much of this is degraded and serves little
purpose for production, species conservation or for protection of watersheds.
Programs for protection and sustainable production in these regions have already begun
and increasing attention is being paid to pesticide pollution and other environmental
concerns, backed up by recent legislation, regulation and budgetary support. IDA is
currently assisting the Government in updating its environmental action plan and Viet
Nam is a signatory to international programs and conventions on the environment.
IDA Assistance to AQriculture in Viet Mai
1.14      IDA has made one credit for agricultural development in Viet Nam, the Dau
Tieng Irrigatior Project (Cr. 845-VN) approved in August 1978 and closed in 1986.31
The Audit Report found that the project was successful and sustainable.
Implementation problems were encountered because of the difficult economic conditions
at the time, inadequate preparation of engineering works, inexperience with
international procurement and difficulties of coordinating multiple (four) co-
financiers. The lessons learned from experience with the Dan Tieng Project have been
incorporated into the design of this project. IDA is the executing agency for the
UNDP-financed Mekong Delta and Red River Master Plan Projects, and was involved in the
multi-agency Agricultural and Food Production Sector Review of 1989 (IDA, UNDP, FAO,
SPC).  IDA contributed to the preparation of the Tropical Forest Action Plan and is
preparing studies on Agricultural Marketing and Environmental Policies and Programs.
On the macro-economic front, IDA has been actively involved in policy dialogue with
the Government through its country and financial sector work as well as through its
participation in selected IMF missions.
_2/    Project Completion Report No. 8239, December 11, 1989.  PPAR No. 9993, October
16, 1991.



-5-
IT. PRIORITY SUBSECTORS FOR REHABILITATION
A. Smallholder Farmers
2.1       Farm Sizes and Rural Poverty.  Agricultural smallholders make up the bulk
of Viet Nam's population. They are also the poorest group and sectoral development
depends on implementation of a successful smallholder development strategy. The main
determinants of rural poverty in Viet Nam are the size of landholdings, the
opportunity to multi-crop, and the access to non-farm work. The 1990 survey by the
Institute of Agricultural Planning found that for the Red River Delt-a the average farm
household was composed of three workers who cultivated about one-third of a hectare
of land divided into seven to seventeen separate plots scattered up to 1.5 kilometers
from the household's residence. Even in the Mekong Delta where farms are considered
" large"l the average size was only 1.3 ha.  Most farms in the south supported at least
two crops per year while only about one-half those in the north could do so. Average
ner capita incomes of farm families for 1989 were about US$60 - US$100, depending on
exchange rate assumptions.  The ongoing Living Standards Surv^y indicates that real
farm incomes may not have changed much since 1989, particularly in the north and
center of the country where malnutrition is still common.
2.2       Development in other sectors also plays an important role in reducing rural
poverty through non-farm employment growth. In fact, access to non-farm employment
was found to be more important in income differentiation than differences in farm
size. In the meantime, efforts will be needed to broaden the geographical and crop
base of recent growth in farm output just to maintain rural incomes as population
increases. Government has begun many initiatives to assist smallholders, among which
are the reform of extension, plant protection, research and credit services.
2.3       Aqricultural Extension.  With the growth in the size of the smallholder
sector, providing extension services has been a major challenge. Until recently,
extension was carried out through the commune system with a minimum of about 1,000
farm families and some 500 ha per contact unit. With the breakdown of the communes,
MAFI was faced with the formidable task of bringing extension services to 11 million
independent farm households. Coverage has been very limited reaching only 10%-l5% of
farmers. The main constraints are the budgetary requirements and the training needs
of extension agents. At the local level, extension agents, salaries are paid from the
provincial budget which depends to a large extent on the prosperity of the province.
Low salaries and non-payment of workers are proving to be strong disincentives to the
evolution of an effective service.
2.4       Between 1991 and 1993, the extension system in 29 of 53 provinces was
consolidated and upgraded, and the Extension Department in WAFI was reorganized in an
attempt to improve technology transfer. While farmers are generally aware of the
advantages of modern production technology, lack of information on farm credit and
market opportunities, inappropriate use of fertilizers and pesticides, maintaining
seed of obsolete varieties and other practices explain much of the gap between
potential and actual yields.
2.5       Plant Protection. Viet Nam faces a large and growing crop loss to pests and
diseases as it moves to continuous cropping of rice with high nitrogen fertilizer use.



In 1991, the production of paddy lost to brown plant hopper, stem borer and blast
reached an all-time record of almost 500,000 tons. jignificant losses occur in other
crops from pod borers and a range of leaf eaters. Chemicals are now widely available
to farmers who prefer to use broad spectrum pesticides with consequently higher cost
and environmental damage than necessary.  A National Law on Plant Protection and
Quarantine was passed in 1993 banning the more dangerous active agents and closely
regulating the import and use of hazardous chemicals. Integrated pest management has
been adopted as Government policy and is being actively implemented with international
assistance.
2.6       As with extension services,  the main constraints on plant protection
advisory services are the shortage of public resources and the absence of private
sector entry into these fields.   A specialized Plant Protection Department (PPD)
within the Management Division of MAFI has been set up to monitor and promote control
of plant pests and diseases. The PPD is responsible for monitoring pest and disease
incidence, forecasting outbreaks based on weather conditions and other ecological
data, maintaining crop loss and pest incidence records, and training and advising
farmers on appropriate control measures.  In practical terms, the effectiveness of
field surveillance teams is chronically constrained by limited mobility, shortage of
essential equipment and lack of management exposure to what is being done in other
countries. Nevertheless, farmer training and staff workshops have already produced
tangible results in achieving effective pest control with low or zero use of chemicals
with consequent cost saving to farmers and to the environment.
2.7       Crop Research.  There are 28 agricultural research institutes in Viet Nam.
Some of these are commodity specific, such as the Rice Research Institute, while
others are multi-crop such as the Food Crops Institute. The comprehensive reforms in
the rural sector have placed a sudden and heavy burden on the research agencies to
develop varieties and technology packages suitable for smallholder methods of
production,  such as greater pest tolerance,  for example.   Similarly,  the sudden
exposure to international export markets requires development of uniform products of
higher standard than previously exported to the former COMECON region. The research
institutes are not adequately equipped to meet this challenge.   Most are poorly
equipped and lack basic research materials, particularly materials used in
experimentation which must be imported. The value of technical assistance in terms
of visits by foreign scientists is frequently limited by poor on-site facilities for
transfer of research skills.
2.8       In spite of these problems,  researchers have been able to maintain a
reasonable varietal base, an active plant breeding program and a suitable technology
package for most crops.  There remains a substantial gap between farm production
levels and demonstration plot yields, indicating a readily utilizable reserve of
output increasing technology. This may soon disappear given the rapid rate of uptake
and the long interval between initiating new research and obtaining results ready for
on-farm application.   Over the long run,  Viet Nam will need to establish an
increasingly sophisticated research system in order to sustain rapid rates of growth
of sector output, to promote crop diversification to reduce climate and market risk,
and to maintain international competitiveness.



- 7 -
B. Rural Credit
2.9       Smallholder credit is mostly provided by VBA, cooperative associations and
informal money lenders. Prior to the restoration of family farming in 1989, vural
credit was supplied to communes, cooperatives and SOEs by the State Bank of V    Nam
(SBV), according to plan allocations, through the 600 SBV branches throughout the
country. Households received less than 1i of bank credit to the sector with informal
credit being supplied by village money lenders at very high rates of interest (15% -
20% per month)  or by communes.   Within three years to 1992,  lending to rural
households rose to 35% of formal credit to the sector with demand far from being met
(Annex 6).
2.10      Finaicial Sector Reform.   Concomitant with general economic reform, the
Government has undertaken a wide range of financial sector reforms. The commercial
operations of SBV have been reconstituted into separate state owned commercial banks,
foreign banks have been permitted to enter the market together with new private
Vietnamese banks, short-term interest rates have been made positive in real terms,
interbank money markets have been established and inflation has been brought down
below 10% by appropriate fiscal and monetary measures. The state-owned banks are now
relatively free to make their own credit decisions and commercial bank financing for
the SOEs is now marginal with the non-commercial Bank for Investment and Development
(BID) being the main conduit for Government support to SOEs. The reform process is
continuing but many significant issues remain to be resolved. Among these are the
settlement of unserviced debt of SOEs, the unsatisfactory equity basis and
profitability of the state-owned commercial banks, and the structure of interest rate
yields by term length. In addition, the collapse of private credit cooperatives, most
recently in mid-1993, illustrates the need for better regulation and supervision of
financial intermediaries.   The Government is continuing to work on the policy
framework for the financial system, with advice and technical assistance from IDA and
plans to carry out a review of the overall financial sector this year.
2.11      Interest Rates.  Commercial banks now deliver short and medium term credit
at interest rates well above the current inflation level (about 0.7% per month mid-
1993), and the rate paid to depositors (0.87% per month to 2% per month) and the SBV
rediscount rate  (average 1% per month).   Currently,  short-term interest rates
fluctuate within a range of 2.1t per month to 2.3% per month. Little medium-term and
virtually no long-term money is available to the sector.   SBV sets the average
financial margin, currently 0.7% per month, and the non-interest accruing reserve of
10* of deposits. The SOEs continue to receive longer term funding at 0.7% per month
through budgetary allocation to the BID.
Viet Nam Bank for Acrriculture
2.12      Oriqins and Institutional Oblectives.  The VBA is the major source of formal
credit for the agricultural sector and the only source of formal credit for
smallholders. It has the largest network of any bank in the country with some 615
branches and outlets and a staff of about 23,000. VBA's lending to smallholders has
grown rapidly in the four years since it was established by restructuring the Bank for
Agricultural Development (BAD) which itself was created from a former department of
the SBV. At the time of reorganization of the banking system, the BAD was created to
provide credit to SOEs, state farms and collectives in the sector and inherited SBV
branches. In 1990, BAD was restructured as the VBA and its charter was expanded to



- 8 -
include credit provision to private farm households and to emerging private sector
rural enterprises. In addition, interest rates were restructured with reference to
market conditions and VBA was authorized to mobilize rural savings. VBA operates as
a state-owned commercial bank under the Law of Banking, Credit Cooperatives, and
Finance Companies (1990) and is supervised by the SBV and the Ministry of Finance.
While VBA specializes in rural lending, it is a universal bank and may lend for
purposes other than agriculture and operates in urban as well as rural areas.  In
common with the banking sector as a whole, VBA is on an adjustment path to true
commercial banking.  While much remains to be done, VBA has already made impressive
gains.
2.13      Smallholder Lendincr.  Accompanying the general reform of the financial
sector has been  the  change  in  the  structure  of VBA  lending  to  agriculture
characterized by a shift of formal rural credit from public enterprises to private
farm households beginning in 1991.  In that year, the main source of formal farm
credit, VEA, advanced VND369 billion (US$33.5 million) to private smallholders and in
the following year increased smallholder advances to VND2,500 billion (US$236 million)
- a jump from 5 of total VBA lending to 35% in one year (Table 2). During the first
six months of 1993, new commitments amounted to VND2,787 billion (US$263 million), of
which VND95 billion (US$9 million) was for medium-term credit. VBA plans total
disbursements of VND5,000 billion (US$471 million) for the whole of 1993 of which
VND400 billion (US$37.8 million) is to be for medium-term (up to three years) lending.
Despite this dramatic increase, VBA will reach only about 1.4 million smallholder
households, about 13t of the total, because of shortage of loanable funds. Average
sub-loan size is currently small at US$110.
Table 2: VBA Loan Volume Extended (1991-1992)
1991     %     1992     %
--     (VND Billion)-
Short Term               7,857     99   7,181    99
Medium Term                 26      1      43      1
Total                  7,883    100   7,224   100
Household Credit           370      5   2,501    35
Public enterprises       7,513     95   4,723    65
Total                  7,883    100   7,224   100
2.14      SOE Lendinq.  In 1992, VBA lending to SOEs fell by 40% in nominal terms and
even more in real terms. The number of active public sector enterprise accounts fell
from 5,400 in 1989 to 2,344 in 1992. The balance of SOE accounts have been suspended
along with that of 12,397 cooperatives and communes accounts pending liquidation. Of
the actively borrowing SOEs, 755 are being reviewed by Government for privatization
or liquidation with a target date of end-1994 for resolution.   In addition, the
lending to SOEs has changed from subsidized production credit to marketing credit at
the same un.ubsidized interest rate as paid by smallholders. In 1993, SOB lending



-9-
is expected to rise through use of a Government line of credit for paddy marketing
and for trade at unsubsidized interest rates.
2.15      Lendinct Procedures.   Under its farm credit program VBA may lend to
individual farmers, to farmer groups, and to intermediate financial agencies (credit
cooperatives, shareholder banks). Farmers are required to have a permanent resident
registration and a land-use certificate. Farmer groups are required to be recognized
by the District People's committee and take joint liability. Intermediate financial
institutions must also be registered and are paid a fee by VBA for sub-loan
collection. Other documentation includes a loan application, an appraisal of the
activity to be financed, a collateral assets declaration and a loan contract. In
practice, loans are limited to 70% of the investment cost for short-term lending and
50% for medium-term.
2.16      VBA Interest Rates and Profitabilitv.  VBA interest rates were adjusted in
April 1993, to reflect falling inflation of about 10% per year at that time. Short-
term rates for production fell from 2.5% per month to 2.1% per month (28% per year
compound interest rate) with loans for trading purposes being 0.2t higher than that
for production. Medium-term rates fell from 1.8% per month to 1.5% per month (19.5%
per year). Deposit rates for rural savings mobilization fell slightly to 2% per month
(26% per year) for three month bonds, 1.7% per month for three month deposits (22%
per year), and 0.87% per month (11% per year) for sight deposits while the average
SBV rediscount rate remained at 1% per month (12.6% per year). The average financial
margin of 0.7t set by SBV for rediscounted funds is insufficient to cover VBA's high
operating cost, due in part to the large number of very small sub-loans. In 1992,
VBA lost VND43.5 billion (US$4.3 million) despite efforts at cost cutting including
downsizing of staff and use of group lending (Annex 6). For the first six months of
1993, VBA shows an unaudited profit of VND8 billion (US$7.5 million) largely due to
increasing revenues while costs have been held constant.
2.17      Savings Mobilization.  Public deposits in VBA have risen from VND1,448
billion (US$150 million) in 1991 to VND2,326 billion (US$233 million) in 1992 and now
are about 50t of total resources. Of this, about 70% are private deposits with the
rest being deposits of SOBs payable on demand.
2.18      Recoveries.   Arrears on smallholder loans are surprisingly low with
recovery rates of 95% of outstanding loans at the end of 1992. The SOE loan portfolio
inherited from SBV, on the other hand, is a serious problem for VBA and is responsible
for the high level of total arrears representing 20.5% of VBA's risk capital, a very
high percentage for a bank lending mainly short-term.  If VBA is to complete the
transition to being a commercial bank able to sustain its operations without
Government assistance, action on the unserviced SOB debt of about VND600 billion is
urgently required. The settlement of SOB debt is an issue of concern to the whole
financial sector as well as to the production sectors and is being dealt with on a
priority basis by an inter-ministerial National Debt Resolution Committee. Progress
to date includes an ongoing review of the viability of each SOB, progressively closing
dc X non-viable enterprises, re-registering and restructuring of viable enterprises,
rescheduling debt of potentially viable enterprises, and liquidating assets of others.
This is a major undertaking covering some 12,000 SOEs of which 4,000 have already been
closed down.



- 10 -
2.19      Asset Basis.  VBA's financial situation remains weak.  As of December 31,
1992, VBA's total resources amounted to VND4,970.3 billion (US$470 million), of which
only VND192.4 billion (US$18 million or 4%) was net worth (Annex 6). Except for its
equity, VBA has no long term resources. Its stated equity is given as VND200 billion
while the outstanding principal owed to VBA by the SOEs, amounts to VND600 billion
(about US$60 million).   Action is needed to restructure the debt  to equity
relationship.
2.20      Accounts.  Accounting is carried out under precise regulations periodically
issued and updated by the Ministry of Finance (MOFP). The MOF annually audits the
accounts for taxation purposes and to ensure that accounting regulations are followed.
VBA accounting is generally found to be in order and timely with the major observation
being that the presentation does not facilitate the use of the accounts as a
management tool. Accounts are kept at all levels and are consolidated from districts,
branches, regions and head office. Distortions in asset valuation, among others, have
progressively been removed and the presentation allows calculation of financial
performance indicators. The chief weaknesses in the accounting system are the limited
use of statistical and analytical presentations. the consolidation time (two weeks),
and the loss of information at each consolidation stage. Under an external technical
assistance program financed by various bilateral agreements, VBA has prepared a
satisfactory bank-wide plan to establish a computerized network system which would
process data in real time and permit routine statistical analysis using
internationally accepted methodology. The system is to be escablished over the next
five years.
2.21      Auditina.  Present internal audit reports are not fully satisfactory and
are issued too late to be useful as a management tool. No formal audit report is
issued by the MOF. In 1990, SBV audited the VBA at the headquarters and provincial
levels. The audit report issued by SBV focused on managerial issues and detailed the
main weaknesses. The report found that the accounting and transactions recording were
satisfactory. The main negative observations were that insufficient efforts were being
made to mobilize rural savings, operating costs and staffing levels were excessive,
insufficient supervision, lack of required skills and experience, and inadequate
training.  Concerns were expressed about the unsettled debts of the SOEs, use of
credit proceeds for purposes other than for which the sub-loan was approved,
inadequate risk analysis, insufficient provision for bad debts, and unclear lending
procedures. The SBV audit report makes specific and sound recommendations which VBA
has already begun to implement by adopting new lending procedures, developing staff
training programs and reducing staff levels, as well as by working towards the
networked computerized account system.   These are part of an overall long run
institutional development plan to transform the VBA into a genuine market-responsive
financial intermediary by the end of the decade (para. 5.12).
2.22      StaffinQ.   VBA staffing is not properly structured or staff adequately
trained to administer the rapidly expanding rural credit program and is particularly
weak in evaluation of farm development proposals. Staffing was reduced by some 6,000
personnel in 1991-92 in an attempt to increase productivity which still remains
relatively low at about 100 loans per staff unit.  Most staff have not received
training in commercial banking. In order to complete the transition in the rural
financial sector and to forestall a deterioration in the quality of the smallholder
portfolio a major effort in human resource development is required. A start has
already been made through bilateral training programs.



- 11 -
2.23      Credit Recuirements.  Based on the available data on the number of rural
households and the production area, the estimated annual credit needs are considerable
and are estimated to be of the order of US$2.5 billion for an average sub-loan size
of only US$250 per farmer to be spread over two crops per year and provide for longer
term development finance.  The US$235 million equivalent advanced by VBA in 1992
represented about 18% of the eligible applications, giving a potential credit demand
on VBA of some US$1,175 billion.  VBA's current projections for 1993 are to lend
US$400 million, and by 1995, lending is projected to reach US$850 million, assuming
a coverage of 60% of farm households.
C. Rubber Production
2.24      Rubber has been grown in Viet Nam for about one hundred years, primarily
as an estate crop. By the early sixties, it had developed into the country's main
agricultural export and Viet Nam was ranked the world's fifth rubber producer, with
some 78,000 tons/year and a total rubber area of about 100,000 ha.  By 1975, however,
the productive area had fallen to about 40,000 ha and production to some 20,000
tons/year.   Since 1976, GOV has restructured the rubber industry and pursued its
vigorous development so as to restore its significant role in the economy. Following
a major planting program, the rubber area reached some 200,000 La by 1992, of which
about 83,000 ha (42%) were immature, with a total production of 67,300 tons/year in
1992.
2.25      The rubber sector is also in a state of transition to a market economy.
In September 1992, the Government announced a new policy for rubber development
(Regulation No. 327/CT, Council of Ministers) in which the private sector is expected
to take the lead role in production. The policy document proposes that the State
Rubber Companies evolve into service organizations assisting private rubber growers.
The Government also announced the details of a smallholder, rubber development program
and its intention to form a Smallholder Rubber Development Board. The State Rubber
Companies are actively seeking private investment in existing estates and Government
is investigating ways of selling shares of estates to the public.   Efforts to
privatize the rubber industry have been hampered by land tenure uncertainty and the
slow progress in resolving rubber SOE debt.
2.26      A recent development has been the emergence of a smallholder rubber sector
developing around the fringes of the estates. Smallholders are often workers on the
rubber estates and from which they are able to obtain planting materials and technical
assistance. This offers a viable smallholder diversification opportunity and a chance
to productively use land unsuitable by slope or fertility for annual crops. However,
rubber poses particular organizational and financing problems because of he need to
tend the crop for seven years before the first tapping and, once planted, the trees
remain for at least 25 years. Development of an organized smallholder rubber sector
awaits the preparation of a detailed strategy and implementation plan.   Once in
production, rubber is an ideal smallholder crop.
2.27      Rubber Development Policy.   The policy sets out strategies for rubber
development to achieve a target of some half million hectares, 96% of which would be
equally divided between the South East and the Highlands regions. About 72% of the
additional 300,000 ha of rubber would be planted in the Highlands, 23% in the South
East and 5% in the Central region. Two thirds of the new rubber areas (200,000 ha)
would be developed as private smallholdings, either dispersed or concentrated, using



- 12 -
the state rubber companies as nucleus estates, while one third (100,000 ha) would be
developed as estate rubber, either wholly private or in a joint venture.
2.28      Structure.  Rubber is grown in three regions: the South East region around
Ho Chi Minh City which is by far the rost important with 170,000 ha (85% of total
rubber area), and the Highlands and Central regions (13% and 2% respectively). About
98% of the total rubber area is in the public sector, consisting of state (89*) or
Provincial-owned (9*) rubber plantation companies with their own processing
facilities, with the remaining 2% (4,700 ha) classified as independent smallholders.
The public sector rubber is organized into 17 incorporated, state rubber companies
(SRCs).  These operate semi-autonomously under the coordination of the MAFI-held
General Rubber Corporation (GRC), which was established in 1975 to take over the
former French plantations located in the South East region (Annex 8).
2.29      Performance.   Due to severe financial constraints  in recent years,
maintenance of the newly planted areas could not be sustained and field conditions
in the state rubber companies are generally very unsatisfactory. In the immature
areas, rampant weed infestation, and poor tree nutrition and disease control slow down
the growth of the trees, cause severe tree losses and delay the start of tapping by
two to three years. In the mature areas, uneven tree stands, little use of yield
stimulant, losses to pilfering and unreported company sales account for the
statistically low national average yield figure of 715 kg/ha, as compared to estate
yields in major rubber producing countries (Malaysia 1,500 kg/ha), and given the
proven good potential of the soils and clones under the local climatic conditions.
2.30      Processincr and Marketing.  The state rubber companies operate 13 on-farm
primary processing facilities (factories) in the South East region without which raw
latex cannot be stored or marketed. These facilities have a total capacity of 85,500
tons/year, which will be insufficient to meet the processing requirements of the
projected crop output when the current immature areas come into production over the
next few years (about 135,000 tons projected in 1996). Most existing latex processing
facilities (factories) are in poor condition, have old equipment and produce rubber
of variable quality which often does not meet international technical standards and
can only be sold at discount prices on the open market.
2.31      With the collapse of COMECON, GRC has been restructured and the individual
plantation companies now enjoy considerable operational autonomy. Each company is
responsible for its own operational activities including marketing - domestic or
export - and has full access to its own foreign exchange earnings. However, GRC has
been left with considerable yet unclear debt obligations and uncertainty as to its
eventual future. The SRCs are actively seeking private investment, particularly from
foreign investors with rubber experience.   While there is interest from abroad,
potential investors remain hesitant because of the risk and uncertainty associated
with old debt obligations and unclear state enterprise legislation. While Government
is actively working at the level of the economy to clear these impediments, the SRCs
are pursuing a course of making themselves as attractive as possible to private
investors.
2.32      Operational management of the individual SRCs is generally good within the
bounds imposed by insufficient working capital. The companies focus on maintaining
production from mature trees, which are kept in good order, with tapping standards
comparable with those found elsewhere. The companies do not, however, have adequate



- 13 -
funds to carry out maintenance on almost 100,000 ha of immature trees and are unable
to make the needed investments to expand and upgrade the processing facilities. In
addition, a considerable amount of latex is not obtained from the trees because
imported chemical yield stimulants are not used.   Transfer of this and other
technology from abroad offers considerable scope for improved performance at
relatively low cost. The companies also need considerable technical assistance in
human resource development to reorient the management and workers toward producing
for highly competitive markets using incentive wages and modern methods of financial
accountability.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Oblectives and Rationale
Project Oriain and Prenaration
3.1       This  project  evolved  from  a  series  of  missions  beginning  with  a
UNDP/FAO/IBRD sector review in 1989' and followed by an FAO project identification
and IBRD preparation missions in the following two years4/. During this period, the
pace and magnitude of macroeconomic and institutional reform overtook preparation work
and required major adjustment in project design and scope. The project focus changed
from emergency assistance to ensure food supply to rehabilitation of support
institutions serving an agricultural economy in transition.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.2       IDA's  objectives  in  Viet  Nam  are  to  support  broad-based  economic
development and to combat poverty, through supporting a rapid transitior. to a market
system, developing key institutions, helping implement poverty alleviation activities,
and helping develop and implement sustainable use of natural resources. The project
is fully consistent with this strategy. Since the majority of Viet Nam's poor people
are in agriculture, rehabilitation of key agricultural and related financial
institutions would help achieve both the poverty alleviation and institutional
development goals. These institutions have already undergone major change in order
to serve the rapid transition in the rural economy but adjustment continues to lag
because of resource and knowledge constraints.
3.3       Market  finance  is not  available  for the  rubber  sector because  of
uncertainty of the structure of future ownership, uncertainty of the size and status
of rouble debt and other inhibiting factors.  The domestic private sector nas no
experience in rubber and foreign investors remain deterred by perceptions of high
political and financial risk. Since the end of COMECON arrangements, large areas of
3/    ThUNDP/FAO/IBRD/State Planning Committee of Viet Nam, Viet Nam:  Agriculture and
Food Production Review, ReIport No. DD:SP/VIE/88/033, 1989.
4/    FAO Investment Center and FAO/UNDP Cooperative Program, Viet Nam General
Identification Mission Report, Report No. 88190-DP-VIE 4, July 11, 1990.



- 14 -
potential high productivity young rubber have not been maintained because long run
funding has not been secured and production has been lost.   IDA financing of
rehabilitation would restore productivity, expand exports, accelerate progress towards
removing market impediments, and encourage private participation through decreasing
risk perception. Rehabilitation of the rubber estates is a core step in Government's
policy of using smallholder rubber development for sustainable use of degraded
uplands, improving smallholder incomes, and sector diversification. The project would
help formulate strategies and programs for smallholder rubber development. Nucleus
estates, either privately owned or in joint venture, would form the centers for
primary marketing and technology generation.
Proiect Obiectives and Summary
3.4       The project aims to improve smallholder support services, increase  credit
to smallholders, rehabilitate rubber production as the basis for smallholder
diversification, and assist rehabilitation of key sector institutions. This would
broaden and deepen the supply response to ongoing market and production reforms and
would contribute to alleviation of rural poverty. The project would be the first in
what is expected to be a long-term series of IDA projects to develop Vriet Nam's
agriculture. As such, it would address a broad range of immediate needs to an extent
necessarily limited and would be used to prepare follow-on projects aimed at more
comprehensive development. It would address the urgent need to expand the coverage
of farm credit and support services to smallholders, and would rehabilitate the
existing stands of rubber trees on state estates and the associated primary processing
facilities as the first step in developing a smallholder rubber industry. It would
also provide the more immediate institutional strengthening required to support this
program.
3.5       The project would support over a three and a half year period (1994 to mid-
1997):
(a)  the first stage in upgrading the amount and quality of agricultural support
services delivered to small farmer households through assistance to
extension, plant protection, research and sector development planning
(US$15.3 million or 15% of base costs);
(b)  supply of short-term credit to small farmer households for the purchase of
fertilizers, improved seeds and other current inputs, and of medium-term
credit for the purchase of pump., tillers, threshers and farm development
works, as well as training and technical assistance in sub-loan appraisal,
accounting, auditing and other banking aspects as part of a comprehensive
institutional development program for VBA (US$55.0 million or 53% of base
costs); and,
(c)  rehabilitation  of  the  rubber  sector  through  improvements  in  tree
maintenance and modernization of processing facilities to meet world market
standards, strengthening of rubber research, and upgrading of management
and technical skills in various aspects of production, processing and
marketing (US$34.3 million or 32% of base costs).



- 15 -
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Services
3.6       Extension.  The project would finance the first stage of rehabilitation of
the extension system and would cover 23 Provinces and 194 Districts selected on the
basis of institutional capacity to undertake project activities  (Annex 5).   The
project would cover 4,307 villages with almost 4 million farm households, or about
one-third the total farm households in Viet Nam, mainly in the rice bowl areas of the
Mekong and Red River Deltas where implementation would be most feasible. One full
time extension worker from the existing pool would be appointed to serve two villages
or about 1,840 farm households. The extension agents would work with key farmers and
farmer groups using the farming system approach which concentrates on the farm
household as the focus of extension rather than on the individual crops. At the start
of the project, an interdisciplinary team would carry out a census of farmer problems
which would form the basis of the extension program for the villages surveyed. The
census would be regularly updated and effectiveness would be monitored against
progress in solving specific problems identified and ranked by farmers. The project
would support preparation of a follow-up project to extend the coverage into more
difficult areas.
3.7       Field  agents  would  meet  regularly  with  provincial  subject  matter
specialists to convey farmer concerns on specific technical, marketing and other
issues. A District supervisor would provide support to the 10 - 12 agents in each
District and be responsible for inter-agency coordination in the area. A provincial
extension office would be responsible for program planning and supervision,
information and communication, training and administration, and coordination at the
provincial level, and would report to the Regional Extension Director. The project
would provide equipment for communications, training, field demonstrations, office
work and related activities for the National Extension Department in Hanoi, the Sub-
Department in Ho Chi Minh City, the Nha Trang Regional Office and the extension
offices in the 23 priority provinces.
3.8       The project would provide training for staff and farmers.  Staff training
would be given in extension methodology, specialty subjects depending on the local
production system, and in adaptation of research to field situation.   Local and
overseas postgraduate courses in extension would be supported as well as study tours
to learn what is being done successfully in other countries. Because of the large
amount of training required, technical assistance in devising the program would be
given by a training expert. Other technical assistance would be given in the fields
of farming systems, monitoring and evaluation, extension methodology and other subject
matters.
3.9       The project would also address the recurrent cost issue which remains the
major impediment to effective extension in Viet Nam. Support would be given, on a
declining basis, to incremental recurrent costs to cover operation and maintenance
of equipment and vehicles, cost of travel of extension workers, field demonstrations,
publications, workshops, and similar extension activities.
3.10      Plant Protection.  The project would promote the use of environmentally
sound pest management in agriculture, including the use of integrated pest management



- 16 -
techniques (IPM). Starting in 1990, the Plant Protection Department (PPD) has been
working in close collaboration with the FAO Regional Program in IPM carrying out pilot
trials on this approachy. Building on the successful results to date, the project
would support the implementation of IPM in 30 provinces and would be the first three-
year phase of a long run program to establish an effective pest monitoring,
forecasting and management system throughout the country.
3.11      The IPM technique is knowledge- and communications-intensive; the project
would finance equipment for laboratory and field work to identify and establish
threshold levels for pest and pest predator species for the main crops. It would
provide equipment and vehicles to be used to monitor pest and disease incidence and
provide early warning of potential outbreaks, and advise farmers on corrective
measures to be taken. Financial assistance would also be given, on a declining scale,
for incremental recurrent expenditures to allow surveillance workers and supervisors
to maintain close association with field conditions and to advise farmers in a timely
manner.
3.12      Succ- sful implementation of IPM requires active participation by farmers
in regularly identifying, counting and recording the incidence of a number of insect
species and other pathogens. Training would be given to IPM trainers, farmers and
to staff involved in monitoring pest incidence.
3.13      Agricultural Research.  The success of the extension and pest management
programs will depend to a large extent on the ability of the research system to
develop and adapt suitable varieties, technologies and methods for farm use. To this
end, the project will provide assistance to three priority research institutes as the
first stage of a long run program to upgrade the research system. These are (i) the
O Mon Rice Research Institute to accelerate the development of brown plant hopper
resistant rice varieties in the south, (ii) the Food Crops Research Institute to
upgrade grain quality and to develop control measures against sheath blight and blast
in the north; and (iii) the National Institute of Agricultural Science to increase
the effort to develop suitable rice hybrids in Viet Nam. While these institutes have
been able to adapt varieties and technologies to Vietnamese conditions, they are
constrained by poorly equipped laboratories, inadequate field experimentation and
transport equipment and isolation from developments in their particular investigations
elsewhere, even to the extent of researchers being unable to obtain standard research
periodicals.   The inadequacy of local facilities severely restricts the research
technology transfer benef it of cooperative research under international programs. To
overcome these constraints, the project would provide research and experimentation
equipment and materials, transport and communications equipment, and training in
hybrid seed production, and other applied research. Funding would be included to
increase exposure to international research by purchase of research journals, study
tours and workshops. Technical assistance would be given to develop ways to improve
the linkages between research and extension through analysis of the farming systems.
Support would also be given to development of a tarming system research network. This
would integrate the commodity-specific research results of the various institutes into
whole-farm recommendations.
J/    FAo, Inter-Country Program for Integrated Pest Control in Rice in Southeast
Asia.



- 17 -
3.14      Aaricultural Sector MA_aaement.    The project would include activities
aimed at strengthening MAFI, including a study of its organizational structure and
functions in a changed economy.   The change from a command to a market-based
agriculture has required major structural and operational adjustments in sectoral
management. This process is ongoing and some reorganization, on an ad hoc basis, has
been undertaken. To a major extent, though, MAPI's size and configuration reflect
a period when its instituti.onal objectives and workload were quite different in nature
and extent.   In order to meet the challenge of regulating a dynamic market based
agriculture while adequately addressing community concerns over environment, food
safety and other issues, all in a responsive and cost-effective manner, requires
fundamental changes in what MAPI does and how Jt operates.   In particular, many
traditional services provided by MAFI may well be provided by the private sector.
Training and technical assistance would be supported under the project to strengthen
the capacity for policy formulation, sector planning, project preparation and
monitoring. Studies for the preparation of a program of projects, and other topics
would also be supported.
C. Rural Credit
3.15      The credit component would expand the volume of commercial credit for
agriculture and rural development in Viet Nam by providing US$52.2 million of
additional funds for lending. Loans would be made for seasonal production and for
investment in fixed assets and working capital.   Credit would be provided to
individual farmers by VBA through its branch network. The project would provide
US$2.8 million for technical assistance to strengthen VBA's capacity in the areas of
sub-project appraisal, credit risk evaluation and the assessment of borrowers' credit
worthiness, cash-flow analysis and its adjustment to inflationary conditions, and
assessment of trends Jn supply and demand and their impact on profitability of
investment and loan repayment.   The project would initiate a medium term credit
program first in ten selected provinces in the north, central and south of the
country.   Depending on implementation progress, coverage would be expanded to a
maximum of ten other provinces. The component would enhance VEA's institutional and
financial performance by:   (i) strengthening VBA's management structure;  (ii)
improving VBA's appraisal and lending procedures; (iii) developing skills needed to
manage the changed organization; and (iv) assisting VBA's build-up in equity, as part
of an overall institutional development program.
3.16      Line of Credit.  The line of credit would finance inputs needed by farmer
households through short-term loans, and on-farm investments through medium term
loans. Short-term lending for a cost of US$31.8 million would finance about 400,000
sub-loans to smallholder clients of VEA. Inputs would mostly consist of fertilizers,
seeds, insecticides, animal feed and small equipment. An amount of US$20.4 million
would be provided for investment lending to farmers, and would finance about 25,000
medium term sub-loans mainly for agricultural machinery such as small tractors,
diesel/gasoline engines, electric motors, motor tillers and rumping equipment; river
and coastal fishing equipment; breeders for livestock productAon, and maintenance of
small irrigation structures by farmers. To facilitate implementation, project lending
would be concentrated in ten provinces (three in the north, four in the center and
four in the south) based on potential credit demand.   Because of the poverty
alleviation objective of the project, sub-loans would be linked to the equivalent of
US$20,000 per borrower. Above this limit, a specific approval from IDA would be
required.



- 18 -
3.17      Institutional  Develonment.    The project  would  finance  training  and
technical assistance, and assist in increasing VBA's equity base as part of a
comprehensive institutional development program (para. 5.12 and Annex 7). Trainincr
would concentrate on training and upgrading VBA staff skills. A detailed training
plan has already been prepared with assistance from external agencies. The training
program would include all the elements required to facilitate VBA's institutional
transition, i.e., courses in human resources management, marketing and development,
banking products and services, and applied technologies. Training would also include
courses in credit appraisal, environmental planning, and portfolio management for
credit staff; accounting for middle level and operational staff; planning,
programming, management control, and communication skills for senior staff; electronic
data processing for computer staff and computer users; and banking services for branch
managers and selected support staff.   The project would also finance equipment,
professional visits overseas for senior managers and, as necessary, the recruitment
of appropriate training specialists. A total of about 1,000 staff would be trained
under the project.
3.18      Technical assistance would be provided to help VBA's transition to a truly
commercial bank. Particular attention would be given to program planning, and to
preparation of detailed lending procedures, especially for medium term lending. The
project would finance the expertise necessary to support VBA's reforms, project
implementation and training. A total of 40 staff months of long-term consultant
services and 20 months of short-term consultant services would be provided for
technical assistance plus an amount equivalent to 80 months of internationally
recruited consultant services for an external audit of VBA.
D. Rubber Rehabilitation
3.19      The project would rehabilitate the plantations of the nine state rubber
companies operating in the South East region, which cover a total area of 161,215 ha.
A directed line of credit would be made available to the rubber companies to finance
a program of rehabilitation which has been appraised by IDA (Annex 8). These loans
would finance the purchase of needed agricultural inputs, including herbicides,
fertilizers, fungicides and yield stimulant, and agricultural equipment, all with full
cost recovery, while the rubber companies would finance the costs of labor. In order
to improve rubber quality and to cope with the incremental production, the project
would upgrade and expand the standard of on-farm latex processing facilities. Without
prompt removal of water, dirt and other extraneous material at the plantation site,
the latex becomes rancid, coagulates and is unsatisfactory for high value industrial
use, thereby lowering product quality and returns.



- 19 -
Table 3.1: Plantations of the State Rubber Companies
(ha)
State Rubber Comoany                            Planted Area (ha) aI
(SRC)                      Mature Rubber      Immature Rubber       Totat
(in Tapping)    (planted after 1987)
Tay Ninh                           4,812             1,957               6,768
Phu Rieng                          12,052            7,401               19,453
Phuoc Hoa                          10,993            6,634              17,627
Dong Nai                           40,658            10,762             51,420
Dau Tieng                          24,140            5,121              29,261
Binh Long                          11,522            4,894              16,415
Dong Phu                           4,457             4,028               8,486
Loc Ninh                           5,682             2,321               8,002
Tan Bien                             655             3,128               3,782
Tota.                           114,970           46,245              161,215
Source: GRC
a/ Projections as of December 31, 1993
3.20      Weed Control.   Currently there is little control of lalang (Imperata
cylindrical) in young immature fields, where the open light favors vigorous growth
of the grass. Sheet lalang conditions have developed and are seriously retarding tree
growth. The systemic herbicide Glyphosate, which is highly effective against lalang
and is widely used in other rubber producing countries but not yet in Viet Nam, would
be imported under the project. Glyphosate would be applied to the immature areas
(about 46,000 ha), outside the dry season, at the rate of 6 liters/ha (at a
concentration of 36% active ingredient). Total Glyphosate requirements would amount
to about 445,000 liters.
3.21     Pertilization.  Fertilizers would be applied to the rubber plantations
established since 1986 (about 61,000 ha) to meet the nutritional requirements of young
trees and promote their rapid growth, at average annual rates of 250 kg/ha for urea,
230 kg/ha for rock phosphate and 30 kg/ha for potash, in two applications per year.
About 30,000 tons of urea, 32,000 tons of rock phosphate and 8,000 tons of potash
would be imported under the project.
3.22      Disease Control.  Two diseases are particularly severe on rubber trees in
South East Viet Nam: Pink disease (Corticium) of branches in young trees and black
stripe tapping panel disease (Phytopthora) on mature trees. These are now widespread
due to the financial constraints, which have curtailed the supplies of fungicides in
recent years. Other diseases include oidium and Gleosporium which respectively attack
young leaves at refoliation and the foliage of young trees and nursery plants.
Fungicides would be imported under the project for the control of Pink disease
(Bordeaux mixture),  black stripe disease  (Difolatan or Ridomil),  Oidium a:d
Gleosporium, as well as other miscellaneous chemicals needed by the plantations.
3.23     Yield Stimulation.   The standard tapping system in Viet Nam is a
combination of third and fourth daily tapping on half spiral. To achieve satisfactory



- 20 -
yields under these reduced tapping frequencies, a chemical yield stimulant (Ethrel)
should be applied to the trees. Little stimulant has been available in recent years
and the project would provide for the stimulation of trees in all mature areas which
have been in tapping for at least 5 years (about 45,000 ha). The stimulant would be
applied four times per year to trees which have been tapped between 5 and 15 years
(about 6 liters/ha/year at a concentration of 2.5t ethepon) and six times per year
to older trees (about 9 liters/ha/year). Total requirements of chemical stimulant
would be about 1.3 million liters at 2.5%.
3.24      Latex Processinq Facilities (Rubber Factories).  The project would provide
an additional rubber processing capacity of about 51,000 tons/year by constructing
five new factories and modernizing and rehabilitating four existinc factories.
Standardized factory designs and tender documents would be used to the extent possible
to procure and construct the factories, as these would lead to: (i) faster preparation
of tenders and factory procurement; (ii) reduced time and costs of construction; (iii)
easier training of factory staff; and (iv) simplified and more efficient operating
procedures. The standardization of factory design would be done by international
consultants and would include factory process, layout and buildings, and ancillary
factory buildings and equipment.
3.25      Five new crumb rubber factories for latex processing would be constructed
at Boa Binh (Dong Nai state rubber company), Tan Khai (Binh Long), Suoi Rat (Phu
Rieng), Phuoc Boa, and at Ben Suc (Dau Tieng) to meet the requirements of the
projected increase in crop output. The base cost of each new factory would be about
US$1.8 million, including effluent treatment, ancillary buildings and equipment.
Total base cost of new factory construction would be about US$9.0 million.
3.26      Four existing rubber factories would be rehabilitated through replacement
of old, faulty processing equipment and establishing of effluent treatment facilities.
Rehabilitation cost for a complete crumb rubber processing line, including associated
effluent treatment and ancillary equipment would be about US$0.6 million for latex
and US$0.8 million for lower grades.   Three latex processing lines would be
rehabilitated at Dong Phu, Ven Ven (Tai Ninh), and at Phuoc Bin (Phu Rieng), and one
line for lower grades, at a location to be determined during project implementation,
for a total estimated cost of about US$2.6 million.
Institutional DeveloDment of the Rubber Sector
3.27      The project would provide for the institutional development of the rubber
sector through: (i) staff training, (ii) technical assistance, (iii) strengthening
of rubber research, and (iv) supplying office technology equipment for the project
coordination unit in GRC.
3.28      Training would be provided to key staff of GRC and the state rubber
companies in the areas of rubber cultivation, processing, and marketing, rubber
research, management, computer use, accounting and finance. It would consist of: (a)
locally organized courses in appropriate, centrally located facilities and/or at
factory sites, with the participation of visiting international subject matter
specialists; and (b) overseas visits to the main rubber producing countries in South
East Asia to provide selected staff with exposure to different technical approaches,
and other rubber development models and conditions of exploitetion. The project would



- 21 -
also provide for visits to foreign rubber research institutions and degree courses
for Rubber Research Institute -f Viet Nam (RRIV) researchers.
3.29      Technical assistance would consist of: (a) short-term consultancies for
international specialists to provide assistance to GRC for the standardization of
factory design, survey of effluent treatment in rubber factories, preparation of
procurement documentation and procedures, establishment of monitoring and evaluation
systems, establishment of management information systems, evaluation of research
programs and other fields which would be determined during project implementation (30
consultant-months); (b) long-term consultancies, for three international specialists
in rubber cultivation, rubber processing and training, to assist GRC in developing
human resources in the rubber sector through training, and introduce advanced proven
technologies into Viet Nam (58 months); and consultancies for (c) the preparation of
a rubber smallholder development program (52 months) and (d) the auditing of
participating rubber companies project accounts (t6 months).
3.30      Rubber Research StrencTthening.   The activities of the RRIV have been
severely curtailed by budgetary constraints in recent years.   The project would
strengthen RRIV's capacity to improve the rubber sector's technical performance, with
the priority being given to RRIV's research activities and services which directly
support the project's overall rehabilitation objectives. The project would provide
for materials for field experimentation, laboratory equipment and supplies, vehicles,
technical assistance and overseas training of researchers.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Proiect Costs
4.1       The total project costs, including contingencies, for the three years
1994-96 are estimated at US$106.7 million, exclusive of taxes and duties. The
foreign exchange content of the project costs is estimated to be JS$64.6 million
(61%). Unit costs for works, goods and services are based on recent contract
prices for similar works, vehicles, plant and equipment. Project base costs are
calculat,ed in constant 1993 prices. No physical contingencies have been applied
as total expenditures are limited by budget availability and adjustments would be
made in the6 physical targets. Price contingencies of US$2.1 million, equal to
about 2* of 'base costs, have been included except for the line of crtedit, to
accommodate annual projected inflation rates of 2.8% per year with exchange rate
adjustments assumed to absorb the differences between local and international
inflation rates. Project cost details are given in Annex 1, Tables 1 to 14 and
are summarized in Table 4.1.



- 22 -
Table 4.1: Project Cost Summary by Components
(USS mittion)
Component               Local      Foreign    Total     Foreign   Total
Base
AgriculturaL Services
Extension                             6.4         4.0     10.4      38         10
Plant Protection                      1.4         2.0      3.4      59          3
Agr. Research                         0.1         0.7      0.8      82          1
Sector Management                     0.1         0.6      0.7      92          1
Subtotat                           8.0         7.3     15.3      48         15
Rural Credit
Line of Credit                       26.1        26.1     52.2      50         50
VBA Strengthening                     0.4         2.4      2.8      85          3
SubtotaL                           26.5       28.5     55.0      52         53
Rubber Rehabilitation
Plantations                           3.9        15.8     19.7      80         19
Processing                            2.7         8.9     11.6      77         11
Research                              0.0         0.4      0.4      94          0
Management Assistance                 0.4         2.2      2.6      86          2
Subtotal                           7.0        27.3     34.3      80         32
Base Cost                               41.5       63.1    104.6       60        100
Physical Contingency                     -          -         -        6
Price Contingency                        0.6        1.5      2.1       69         2
Total Cost                              42.1       64.6    106.7       61        102
a/ Exclusive of taxes and duties.
Prolect Financing
4.2       The proposed IDA credit of SDR69.4 (US$96 million equivalent) on standard
terms would be made to Viet Nam and would finance about 90v of total project costs
exclusive of taxes and duties. This would finance foreign exchange cost of US$62.3
million and Us$33.7 million of local costs. Government's direct contribution would
be US$3.8 million, while another US$4.3 million would be contributed by the
Government-owned state rubber companies, and US$4.3 million would be contributed by
the Government-owned VBA.  Farmers would contribute an unquantified amount in labor
and in kind towards farm development.   Financing arrangements for the project are
given in Table 4.2.   Government direct expenditure would be in the form of sharing
recurrent costs incurred in provision of agricultural services. These are defined
for the purpose of the project as being:   (i) cost of operating and maintaining
vehicles and equipment for project sponsored extension, research, and plant
protection; (ii) cost of travel allowances for agricultural services staff in the
execution of these activities; (iii) cost of contracts for temporary field workers
to be employed to carry out farmer surveys and to assist agricultural services staff
to establish the extension and plant protection system; (iv) cost of establishing
field trials and farmer demonstrations of technology options; and (v) costs associated
with dissemination of related information, including publications and radio broadcasts
(Annex 1, lable 3).



- 23 -
Table 4.2: Project Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Funding Source          Locat       Foreign     Total        Percent
IDA                  33.7          62.3        96.0        90
Govermnent
Direct               3.0          0.8         3.8          4
VBA                  1.3          1.3         2.6          2
GRC/SRC              4.1          0.2         4.3          4
Total                42.1          64.6       106.7        100
On-LendinQ Arrancements
4.3       The Socialist Republic of Viet Nam would be the Borrower.  Finance for
agricultural services would be made available by Government to MAFI through the normal
budgetary process.   Finance for rural credit would be allocated to VBA under a
Financing Agreement between Government and VBA. Under this agreement, 50t of the
proceeds disbursed under rural credit sub-loans would be made available to VBA in VND
as Government equity contribution to build up VBA's capital base. The balance of
these proceeds would be on-lent to VBA at a variable interest rate. Smallholder Sub-
loans would be made in VND for a maturity of up to one year for seasonal inputs, and
1 to 5 years for medium-term investments. The on-lending credit risk would be borne
by VBA, and the foreign exchange risk by Government.
4.4       Sub-loans for rubber rehabilitation would be made in US Dollars to
individual state rubber companies through a line of directed credit administered by
the VBA under the Financing Agreement. VBA would receive a fee for its services.
Rubber rehabilitation sub-loans would be made for maturity of a maximum of 15 years,
including up to 5 years of grace. Foreign exchange risk and commitment charges would
be borne by the respective SRCs.
4.5       All sub-loans in VND would bear interest at an annual rate which would
exceed VBA's weighted average cost of borrowing plus a margin to adequately cover
VBA's cost of making and collecting the smallholder sub-loans, all determined in a
manner satisfactory to the Association.   All sub-loans in US Dollars would bear
interest at an annual rate equal to the London Interbank Offered rate (LIBOR) for six-
month dollar rate plus a margin to adequately cover the cost of making and collecting
the rubber rehabilitation sub-loans, determined in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, with the sub-borrower bearing the foreign exchange risk. The interest
rate would be fixed at the time of making the sub-loan for a maturity of up to one
year, and for all other maturities would be a variable rate reset by VBA. Agreement
on the above on-lending arrancrements was reached with GOV during necrotiations (para
7.2 (e)). Signature of the Financing Agreement between Government and the VBA would
be a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 7.3 (a)).



- 24 -
Procurement
4.6       Procurement (Table 4.3) would follow IDA guidelines.  All procurement by
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be carried out using IDA standard
documents. With respect to the first contract for the procurement of goods and for
each subsequent contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$150,000 or more, IDA
would review the bidding packages prior to tendering and award, covering 100% of the
total contract value procured by ICB, and about 80% by local competitive bidding
(LCB). Selected post review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels would
be carried out on about 1 in 8 goods contracts. All consultant selection arrangements
and contracts would be subject to IDA's prior review. Detailed procedures for LCB
for contracts to be financed under the project were discussed and agreed during
negotiations as sec out in the Supplemental Letter on LCB.  Procurement procedures
used in Viet Nam are being reviewed by IDA and a draft Country Procurement Assessment
has been prepared.
4.7       Civil Works.  Civil works for rubber factories (US$4.7 million) would be
small (under US$0.9 million per contract) and widely dispersed in remote locations
and hence would unlikely be attractive to foreign firms, which would not be barred
from tendering. They would be procured by LCB procedures acceptable to IDA (US$4.4
million) as agreed in the Supplemental Letter, and by the force account units of the
state rubber companies (US$0.2 million).
4.8       Goods.   Rubber processing machinery (US$4.9 million) and most vehicles
(US$1.5 million) would be procured by ICB. Equipment consisting of small packages
(US$4.9 million) for diverse use (power, water supply, office equipment and equipment
for information dissemination) and a few vehicles and motor cycles (US$0.1 million)
would be procured by LCB procedures acceptable to IDA in contracts not exceeding
US$200,000. Fertilizers (US$9.4 million) and agro-chemicals (US$6.7 million) for the
rubber rehabilitation component would be procured under ICB. Locally manufactured
goods would be eligible for a domestic preference in ICB of 15% or the applicable
customs tariff, whichever is less. Small amounts of laboratory chemicals, equipment
and other experimental materials estimated to cost US$0.4 million in total and less
than US$50,000 per contract would be purchased through local shopping procedures
satisfactory to IDA with a minimum of three quotations.
4.9       Operating expenses (total of US$7.0 million, including equipment, O&M,
field activities of agricultural support services, contracts for temporary field
agents, and travel allowances) would be variable and dispersed in location,time and
nature and would be made using normal Government procedures. Consultants would be
engaged following the Bank's guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
4.10      Line of Credit.   Procurement of farm inputs and items for on-farm
investments under the rural credit component (US$52.2 million) would not be suitable
for bulk procurement because of their variety, small size and dispersion. Private
dealers and provincial procurement agencies sell and service a large variety of farm
equipment and inputs. Competition is keen and prices are competitive. Sub-borrowers
would therefore purchase farm machinery, equipment and inputs from local sources of
their choice.



- 25 -
Table 4.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000 equivalent)
ICs         LC8          Other                N8F             Total
Civil Works:
Rubber Factories                               -           4,353           338   _/                         4,691
(3,918)        (304)                             (4,222)
Goods:
Equipment and VehicLes                      6,402          4,886           194   b/                         11,482
(6,402)       (4,886)         (194)                            (11,482)
Agricultural Inputs                         16,133          125            63                               16,321
(16,109)        (125)          (63)                            (16,297)
Materials for                                  -             -             259                               259
Experimentation                            -              -           (259)                              (259)
Trainina:                                      -             -            5,592                             5,592
-             -          (5,592)                            (5,592)
Consultancies:
Technical Assistance and                       -             -            5,320  51                         5,320
Studies                                  -              -          (5,320)                            (5,320)
.iscellaneous
Line of Credit                                 -             -           52,200  J                          52,200
-             -          (49,590)                           (49,590)
Operatins Exoenses:
Travel Allowances                              -             -            3,072   /                         3,072
-             -            (936)                             (936)
Field                                          -             -            3,882  f/                         3,882
Activities                                  -             -          (2,302)                            (2,302)
Field Labor                                    -             -                             3,891            3,891
*  -                             ~~~~~~~(-)        (-)
Total                                       22,535         9,364         70,920            3,891           106,710
(22,511)       (8,929)       (64,560)           (-)            (96,000)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.  Includes contingencies.
8/ Force account for small civil works, geographically dispersed.
kI Local and international shopping, with minimua of three quotations, for specialized laboratory equipment.
LI Consultant hiring according to IDA Guidelines.
JV Line of Credit for small, dispersed purchases (average sub-loan size about US$100).
I/ Travel allowances for extension, research and plant protection on a declining basis.
f/ Field activities for extension, plant protection and research including demonstrations, publications, radio
broadcasts, and other means of disseminating extension, research and plant protection information.
4.11           Procurement information would be provided to IDA by the implementing
agencies as follows:
(a)         prompt reporting of contract award information;



- 26 -
(b)     comprehensive quarterly reports including revised cost estimates for
individual contracts and the total project; and revised timing of
procurement actions.
Disbursement
4.12      The proposed IDA credit is expected to be disbursed over three and half
years. The project completion date would be June 30, 1997, and the closing date would
be December 31, 1997. Disbursements would be made against expenditures net of taxes
as follows:
(a)     100% of foreign expenditures or local ex-factory expenditures for
equipment,    vehicles,    agricultural   inputs,    materials    for
experimentation; and 90% of costs of other items procured locally;
(b)     95% of VBA smallholder sub-loans;
(c)     100t of VBA rubber rehabilitation sub-loans;
(d)     100% of costs of consultants' services and training activities;
(e)     operating expenses, including expenditures on field demonstrations,
contracts for temporary field agents, publications and radio
broadcasts and travel allowances for agricultural support services
staff; on a declining basis (80%, 60%, 40%).
4.13      Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures in
accordance with IDA's normal procedures for all expenditures for: (a) contracts under
US$200,000 for civil works, equipment, and vehicles; (b) training, travel allowances
for staff, and extension, research and plant protection field activities; and (c) VBA
smallholder sub-loans. MAFI, VBA and GRC would prepare the Statements of Expenditure
for expenditures related to agricultural services, rural credit and rubber
rehabilitation, respectively, and retain the related documentation.   Statement of
Expenditure documentation would be made available for inspection by the auditors and
by IDA during project supervision. All other disbursements would be made against full
documentation. MAFI, VBA and GRC would prepare and submit withdrawal applications
to IDA, and copy to the International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of
Finance (ICD).
4.14      A Special Account in US$ would be established in a bank acceptable to IDA,
to facilitate disbursements.   The account would be maintained with an authorized
allocation of US$5.0 million, representing an estimated average of four months'
expenditures and would cover all expenditures,  both local and foreign.   Only
expenditures above US$500,000 equivalent would be submitted directly by ICD to IDA
for payment.   ICD would request replenishment of the Special Account monthly or
whenever the amount requested exceeds one third of the initial deposit, whichever
comes first.
4.15      As the project's implementing agencies and the International Cooperation
Department of the Ministry of Finance have very little experience in IDA procurement



- 27 -
and disbursement procedures, appropriate training would be given to selected staff
through courses organized by IDA.
Accounts and Audits
4.16      Agreement was reached during negotiations that MAFI, including GRC, and
VBA, would maintain separate project accounts covering all financial transactions for
project activities under the accounting standards enacted by GOV, which are found
satisfactory.  Agreement was reached with GOV during negotiations that:   (a) the
annual financial statements of VBA and all project accounts, the Special Account and
Statements of Expenditure would be audited annually by independent auditors
satisfactory to IDA and made available (in English) to IDA not later than nine months
after the end of the fiscal year (para. 7.2 (a)); and that (b) an initial independent
audit would be carried out by auditors satisfactory to IDA of the accounts of VBA no
later than December 31, 1994 (para. 7.2(b)). VBA accounts and financial statements
have been audited annually by internal auditors and representatives from the Ministry
of Finance and this practice would continue under the project.   Yearly financial
statements would consist of balance sheets, income statements including sources and
application of funds.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.1        Overall responsibility for implementing the support services component
would rest with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries. Responsibility for
implementing the rehabilitation program would also rest with the Ministry.
Responsibility for implementing the rural credit program would rest with the executive
head of VEA. Implementation of the three components would proceed separately since
progress is not interdependent.   General coordination and liaison would be the
responsibility of the International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Finance
(ICD). The Agricultural Services component would be implemented by MAFI's functional
Departments of Extension, Plant Protection, Research and Planning using their recently
reorganized structures. The rural credit component would be implemented by VBA under
a Project Agreement with IDA.   The rubber rehabilitation component would be
implemented by the participating state rubber companies under sub-loan agreements with
VBA and by GRC. Three sub-project coordination units (PCUs) would be established,
in MAFI's Planning Department, VBA and GRC, to monitor project activities, prepare
progress reports, coordinate procurement activities, prepare/review statements of
expenditure and disbursement applications.  In addition, the PCU for agricultural
services would integrate the separate plans and budgets of the Departments and
reconcile them with project funds available; the PCU for rural credit, which would
be established within VBA's Support Services Section, would consolidate branch plans
and budgets; and GRC's PCU would undertake similar activities for the individual state
rubber companies.   Establishment of the three PCUs with composition, funding and
responsibilities satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(para. 7.3(b)).  Agreement was reached with GOV and VBA during negotiations that all
training would be carried out in accordance with training programs satisfactory to



- 28 -
IDA and that government would cause all studies under the project to be carried out
with terms of reference and timing satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.2 (c)).
5.2       Status of Project Prenaration.  Activities to be funded under the proposed
project do not require detailed design and long preparation. All project activities
are relatively simple in nature and are similar to ongoing activities.   Major
constraints on timely project start-up would be unfamiliarity with IDA procedures
which could delay initial procurement, delays in detailed implementation planning at
the province level and in reaching inter-agency agreements. To limit their impact,
start-up seminars in IDA procedures would be provided.
B. Implementation Details
AQ'ricultural Services
5.3       Extension.  Project activities would be phased into the 21 provinces over
three years, approximately seven per year based on priority needs. In the first year,
a Rapid Rural Appraisal (RRA) would be carried out in the first group cf provinces
to establish an extension program based on a farming systems approach. The RRA would
consist of a farm survey of adequate sample size covering social, economic and
technical aspects and would be carried out by the existing National Farming Systems
Research Network and the Provincial Extension Service.  This would establish the
content of the extension program, provide the extension workers with orientation to
the project "whole farm" and farmer problem census approach, and link the research
and extension services at the level of the project. The National Extension Department
would prepare the list of items to be procured and would work with the PCU to prepare
packages for bid invitation. The PCU would work with the Extension Department on
detailed scheduling and procurement of training and technical assistance. The Farming
Systems Specialist would be engaged as soon as possible after project effectiveness
to be involved in design of the PRA. An RRA would be carried out for the subsequent
provinces using results of the first survey to make necessary adjustments.
5.4       Plant Protection.  Project activities would be phased in over three years
in 30 provinces.   Early in the first year, the PPD would work with the PCU for
agricultural services in preparing the first batch of transport and communication
equipment to establish a pest monitoring and forecasting system together with a
network of IPM trainers. Initial emphasis would be on rice-based farming systems.
A fully functioning IPM unit over one province should be established as soon as
possible to identify constraints and necessary adjustments to be made to the
implementation schedule. The methodology to be used would be that developed under
the regional FAO-supported IPM pilot project. Technical assistance would be engaged
as early as possible after project effectiveness.
5.5       Research.  Early in the first year of project implementation, technical
assistance would be contracted to evaluate the orgoing research programs in the three
participating research institutes for relevance and quality and to prepare details
of additional research to be directly supported by the project. Procurement of basic
chemicals and laboratory equipment would begin without waiting for results of the
program review, as these are standard and are needed for ongoing work.
5.6       Sector ManaTement.    Soon after project  effectiveness,  international
management consultants with expertise in public sector management would be contracted



- 29 -
by the Office of the Minister to review MAPI's structure and performance as a service
organization directed towards a market-based agriculture.   Experts in project
preparation and management would be contracted to assist in design and scheduling of
the training program which would begin in the second half of the first year of the
project.
Rural Credit
5.7       Credit Operations-Policies and Procedures.  The credit activities would be
carried out on the bas4s of policies and procedures to be established in an Operations
Policy Manual,  to be approved by VBA management and acceptable to IDA.   The
preparation and adoption of the Operations Policy Manual acceptable to IDA would be
a condition of disbursement for the smallholder sub-loans under the credit comnonent
(para. 7.4). The Policy Mianual would include eligibility criteria, interest rate
structure, sub-loan appraisal and supervision. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that VBA would prepare and furnish to IDA an Operations Manual for its
concurrence and adopt and apply the manual as agreed with IDA and that the manual
would not be revised without prior concurrence of IDA (para 7.2 (d)).
5.8       Elicaibilitv Criteria.   IDA funds for this component would be used in
support of VBA's rural credit program to farm households and private entrepreneurs.
Credit to SOEs for rubber rehabilitation under the project would be a separate line
of Credit (para. 4.4). The following types of rural activities would be eligible for
financing under the project: (a) seasonal production sub-loans up to one year; and
(b) medium-term investment financing for farm development. Eligible sub-loans would
be for investment in fixed assets and incremental permanent working capital. Typical
items to be financed are seeds, fertilizers, pesticides; agricultural machinery such
as small tractors, electric motors, motor tillers, irrigation and pumping equipment;
river and coastal fishing equipment; and breeders for livestock production.
5.9       Sub-loan AnDraisal.  Investment lending proposals (medium-term) would be
appraised by VBA's field staff under the guidance of VBA headquarters and with the
help of the agricultural extension services, when necessary. The objective of the
appraisal is to demonstrate that: (a) the proposed investments are sound on technical,
environmental and economic grounds, and are financially viable based on the sub-
project's financial plan and cash flow analysis; and (b) the sub-loan applicants are
creditworthy, and will be able to repay their loans. As calculations of financial
rates of return (FRRs) for all sub-loans are impractical, VEA would calculate FRRs
for typical sub-projects, to be agreed with IDA. To speed up approval decisions and
disbursement, separate feasibility studies would be replaced by standardized loan
packages for various categories of investment, particularly for small-farm loans.
These standardized loan packages would be prepared by VBA in consultation with IDA.
As IDA credit is geared to address the needs of small farmers, sub-loans above VND
200 million (about US$20,000) would require IDA approval before financing (para.
7.2(e)).
5.10      Disbursement and Supervision of Sub-loans.  Disbursement and supervision
of sub-loans would be handled by VBA and its branch network. Sub-loans would be
disbursed, preferably to suppliers, or directly to farmers for small inputs and farm
services. VBA would maintain updated lists and prices of inputs and equipment to be
financed, and of sub-loans financed with IDA proceeds and would transmit these to the
PCU to justify IDA disbursement requests.  Periodic (quarterly or semi-annually)
visits to sub-projects would be made by VBA's field staff and as may be prescribed



- 30 -
by VBA's headquarters.   Follow-up reports on each visit would comment briefly on
utilization of sub-loan funds, compare actual and planned operations, review clients'
management and financial problems, assess environmental impact where applicable, and
make recommendations.
5.11      VBA's Institutional Development.   A comprehensive set of actions and
measures have been taken and others would be taken under the project to facilitate
VRA's institutional transition toward commercial banking activities. Agreement has
been reached on an institutional development program satisfactory to IDA (Annex 7),
to be confirmed at negotiations  (para 7.1  (b)).   Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that VBA would implement the Institutional Development Program, in a
manner satisfactory to IDA (para 7.2 (f)). The development plan would address the
major issues confronting ViA, recommend specific measures to be taken, and proposes
an implementation schedule to be followed.  The issues are:  (a) VBA's mandate,
objectives and degree of autonomy, and strategic planning; (b) audits and procedures
needed to produce certifiable accounts; (c) financial restructuring, including capital
adequacy and risk provisions, and operational planning; (d) organization and
institutional structure with emphasis on precisely defined responsibilities; (e)
staffing levels and training; (f) procedures for sub-loan appraisal, lending and
supervision; and (g) supervision of operations and modernization of management
information systems.
5.12      Traininc.  VBA would be responsible for project-related training and would
carry out seminars in Hanoi or in other cities of the country. Although VBA maintains
experienced and qualified trainers, as part of its proposed staff development program
VBA would organize relevant training programs overseas for its most qualified staff
and trainers, or would enter into a twinning arrangement with a similar but more
mature agricultural credit bank in another country.
Rubber Rehabilitation
5.13      Field activities, including plantation and factory investments, would be
implemented by the individual SRCs. GRC would provide common services and the SRCs
would undertake project activities under sub-loan agreements with VBA, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. GRC would coordinate project activities of the SRC's
but implementation would be the responsibility of the individual SRC.   Each
participating SRC would be eligible for sub-loans from VBA upon submission to IDA by
VBA of satisfactory documentation including a copy of the program to be financed
(para. 3.19) and a copy of legal documents establishing the company together with the
most recent financial statements. The application and supporting documents would be
sent to IDA by VBA, together with GRC's approval of the program, for IDA's approval
of the sub-loan.   GRC would carry out its project activities under the Credit
Agreement with IDA.
Monitorina, Evaluatina and Reportina
5.14      The three PCUs would be responsible for preparing quarterly progress
reports for each component. The reports would review physical and financial activity
during the previous period, identify problems, and update schedules of current and
next quarter activities. The reports would be sent to ICD within two months of the
end of each quarter for consolidation and transmission to IDA. The PCUs would use
report data and MIS material to measure project performance on an ongoing basis. For
the credit component, VBA's quarterly reports would include an assessment of progress



- 31 -
in implementing the credit's sub-components, commitments, disbursements, sub-loan
maturities and actual collections by category cf beneficiaries.   VBA would also
prepare and submit an Annual Evaluation Report within three months of the end of each
fiscal year, which would include: changes in lending policies and procedures, and
progress being achieved in the implementation of institutional building activities.
The rubber component's PCU would also monitor the safe and environmentally sound use
of agricultural chemicals by the state rubber companies. ICD would arrange for an
impact evaluation study at mid-term and would furnish a project completion report to
IDA within six months of the credit closing date. IDA's Supervision Plan is shown
at Annex 3.
Prolect Implementation Schedule
5.15      The project implementation schedule is given in Annex 4.  The three PCU's
(agricultural services, rural credit and rubber rehabilitation) would be established
at project start-up and would consolidate the operational details of the planned
activities for each component.   Technical assistance would be engaged soon after
p;roject effectiveness to assist with the Rapid Rural Appraisal which would be used
to define the village level programs. The external audit of VBA would be started in
March  1994.    Rubber plantations  would be  rehabilitated and  rubber  research
strengthened over the entire implementation period. The standardization of design
and tender documents for the rubber factories would be a priority task, and factory
construction and/or rehabilitation would only begin in the second year of project
implementation. The survey of effluent treatment in rubber factories would be carried
out during the first and second years, while the state rubber companies would upgrade
effluent treatment facilities during the third year. Long term technical assistance
and training activities would only start after six months of project implementation.
5.16      The project would require intensive supervision, particularly in the early
stages because of the unfamiliarity of implementing agencies with required procedures,
the multiple components included in the project, and because of the comprehensive
amount of institutional development proposed. A detailed supervision schedule is
presented in Annex 3. Over the three year implementation period, a total of 70 staff
and consultant weeks of supervision would be required with an average of three
supervision missions per year, including a project launch workshop, a mid-term review
of project progress during PY86, and a completion mission. The missions would include
an appropriate skills mix to adequately supervise project components (Annex 3).
Environmental Effects
5.17      The plant protection component would have a major positive environment
impact through the spread of IPM. Indiscriminant use of broad scale pesticides poses
a major environmental risk, particularly in the Mekong Delta, and now that the foreign
exchange constraint on imported chemicals has been removed. Government has overhauled
pesticide laws and regulations and has instituted a policy of decreased use of
chemical pesticides. Pilot trials have shown that farmers readily accept IPM as it
is a major cost saving and production benefits can be easily demonstrated.
5.18      For rubber,  field activities concern primarily the rehabilitation of
existing rubber plantations and are therefore unlikely to induce significant
environmental impacts. Only environmentally acceptable herbicides, fungicides and



- 32 -
other agricultural chemicals approved by IDA would be used in the plantations*/.
Treatment measures for relatively benign effluent from rubber factories, involving
anaerobic facultative ponding systems, are well known and would be incorporated in
the design of the new and rehabilitated factories financed under the project.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that GRC would carry out a survey of effluent
treatment in all its 13 existing rubber factories by June 30, 1997, and that, based
on the survey's results, all the state rubber companies would upgrade their effluent
treatment facilities by June 30, 1997 to meet acceptable international standards,
would train their staff in the environmentally sound use of chemicals (para. 7.2(g)).
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Production Benefits
6.1       Smallholder Production. The combined effect of producing new varieties and
technology through research, transferring :.nformation on options open to the farmer
through extension and reducing crop losses tarough effective plant protection together
with market-determined pricing would expe-.d demand for on-farm investment. Incremental
smallholder credit under the project would enable farmers to intensify and diversify
production. Paddy yields would be expected to rise from an average of 3.5 tons per
ha in the north to 5.0 tons per ha over a five year period, and in the south would
be expected to increase from 4.0 tons per ha currently to 5.5 tons per ha. Yield
increases of similar magnitude would be expected for maize, soybeans and peanuts.
Assuming for model purposes an average loan size of US$500 equivalent, the farm credit
would reach 100,000 farmers growing at least two crops per year on an average crop
area of 0.5 ha to give an extra 150,000 tons of rice equivalent per year worth about
US$30 million. A typical smallholder taking advantage of credit, extension and IPM
under the project could expect to increase net farm income from about US$200/yr. to
US$480/yr. (1409) over a five-year period through use of fertilizer and improved
varieties, changes in cropping pattern and reduction in pesticide use (Annex 11).
On the assumption of five people per farm household the per capita income would rise
from the equivalent of US$40/year to US$96/year, still well below the average per
capita income of about US$200/year.
6.2       Rubber Production.  The use of yield stimulant would increase the yields
of 125,000 ha of mature rubber by 200 kg per ha from the present 715 kg per ha to 915
kg per ha (30%) during the project period. Moreover, the combined application of
herbicides and fertilizers to immature rubber plantations and use of fungicides to
control diseases would result in the reduction of the immature period by one year and,
some five years from start of the project, an average yield increase of 200 kg per
ha per year, over the entire productive life of the trees.   Total incremental
production is estimated at 173,000 tons over the period 1994 to 2016 (Annex 10).
6.3       The additional processing capacity provided under the project and the
rehabilitation of four existing factories would result in improved rubber grades
6/   None of the herbicides or fungicides would be in the Bank's Checklist of
Pesticides Not Recommended for Use in Agriculture or Suitable for Restricted Use
(OPN 11.01).



- 33 -
potentially increasing prices by about 10%, provided that quality is consistent,
deliveries timely and other market confidence factors are met.
Marketing and Prices
6.4       Rice.   Of Viet Nam's annual rice production of some 17 million tons
annually, most is consumed locally with only 1-2 million tons exported.   With a
population growth rate of 2.3% annually and a rising standard of living from a very
low base, this surplus would be expected to disappear un'less intensification is
successful and relative prices remain favorable. Following economic reform, domestic
rice markets have been liberalized and farmers are free to sell to competitive buyers.
In early 1993, farmers received an average of US$110 per ton equivalent for paddy.
At a mill rice recovery rate of about 66%, this is equivalent to US$165 per ton of
rice. At this time millers were wholesaling rice at US$190 per ton equivalent which
reflects normal milling costs and margins.   The incremental production under the
project amounts to less than 1t of national output and would not affect domestic
prices, nor would incremental rice exports effect world prices. Although rice exports
are limited to about 40 state and provincial trading companies, they behave
competitively and prices paid to farmers and millers reflect normal margins. The
quality of Vietnamese rice being put on world markets has increased remarkably over
the past four years. In 1989, about 93t of Vietnam's exported rice was 30% or more
broken and was sold at a discount, and less than 1% was 10% broken or better. By
1992, only 24% of exported rice was 30* or more brokens and about 40% was sold as 10*
brokens or better. Many districts now grow long-grained rice specifically for export
to take advantage of favorable prices. Nevertheless, Vietnamese rice is still sold
at a discount of around US$50 per ton over Thai rice of similar grade because of
uneven processing characteristics, such as off-color grain and moisture content. This
discount is expected to disappear within a few years. Viet Nam's exports of about
2 million tons per year, if maintained, will have an impact on the global rice trade
of some 13 million tons per year.
6.5       Rubber Outlook.  Most of Viet Nam's rubber will continue to be exported as
latex or crumb, consistent with other producers with over 80% of global production
being exported before manufaccure. World consumption of natural rubber is expected
to rise from 5.4 million tons in 1992 to over 7.2 million tons within 15 years, with
supplies coming mainly from established producers (Table 6.1). Increased demand for
natural rubber, particularly in developing economies, relative to that for synthetic
rubber comes from recent technological developments and availability of more types
and grades of natural rubber. Rubber prices are projected to recover in nominal terms
as the global economy pulls out of recession and to increase within 15 years from
UScents 101/kg to UScents 177/kg, and to increase in real terms over the long run from
their present depressed levels. Much will depend on the economic performance of Asian
and East European countries with high income elasticity for rubber products. Within
the established producers, realignment is occurring as high wage producers, notably
Malaysia, lose market share to those with a comparative advantage in labor cost. This
trend is expected to continue to Viet Nam's advantage - provided that labor
productivity can be increased and market reliability improved in terms of consistently
delivering a clean product meeting buyers' specifications.



- 34 -
Table 6.1: Rubber Production, Consumption and Prices
Actual                   Prolected
1991     1992           1995        2005
Production ('000) tons
World                      5200     5400             5900        7200
Viet Nam                     55       63             115         150
Market Share %                1        1               1          2
Consumption (million tons)
Industrial economies       2400     2500            2700         3200
Developing economies       2300     2400            2400         3400
Market share                 49       49              48          51
Prices
Current US/kg              101      102             118          177
Constant 1990 US/kg         99      96              105          113
Source: World Bank Conmodity Studies - August 1993 Price Projections.
Price Competitiveness of -'ietnamese Rubber
6.6       Actual RSS1 rubber prices on world markets averaged 101 - 102 US/kg during
the period 1990-1992. Viet Nam's costs of production during that time varied between
46-68 US/kg while other regional producers produced rubber at 70-i20 US/kg. The
difficulty with a cost comparison of this type is that much depends on the age profile
of the trees in tapping and the differing treatment of certain costs such as
depreciation while the weighted average price also varies. However, within the limits
of the comparison, it seems fair to conclude that Viet Nam is a highly competitive
rubber producer and given the backlog of unutilized technology, Viet Nam has proven
potential for substantially improving both its price and quality competitiveness.
Table 6.2:  Rubber Costs and Prices (US/kg)
1990     1991        1992
RSSI price/kg           102        101        102
Viet Nam cost/kg        48          46         68
High cost S.E. Asia     -       70-110     75-120
Low cost S.B. Asia      -        50-72      55-80
Immact on VEA's Financial Performance
6.7       The proposed project would help achieve a vital transition in VEA's
institutional development.   This change would improve Viet Nam's institutional
capabilities to promote private sector investment and growth in the rural sector.
Through provision of investment credit to private farmers and other operators, the
project would also contribute to increased production, exports, and rural employment.



- 35 -
This in turn would impact favorably on Viet Namans economic and social goals,
particularly in reducing poverty in rural areas.
6.8       VBA's financial structure and its earnings capacity is expected to improve
as a result of the project. Capital adequacy would improve from 4% to 7% assuming
that interest rates related to the use of IDA credit would be capitalized by VEA.
This improvement also assumes that VBA's profits are re-injected into free reserves
to improve its capital base. Return on equity performance would improve from negative
in 1991 and 1992 to positive from 1993. Liquidity is expected to improve from 1993
to 1996, but would remain inadequate. In terms of growth, VBA would benefit from the
support of SBV and IDA. VyA's financial indicators, in particular the debt to equity
ratio will have to be closely monitored during project implementation to prevent or
correct any deteriorating trends. Projected financial statements for 1988-1992 are
given in Annex 7, Tables 5 to 8.  Key ratios reflecting VBA's projected financial
conditions are presented in Table 6.3.
Table 6.3: VEA's Projected Financial Indicators 1993-1996
1993    1994   1995   1996
Debt-to Equity                        26.5    24.7  18.1   14.0
Return on Equity %                    12.0    18.0  11.0   10.0
Equity to Risk Assets % U              4.0      4.0   6.0      7.0
Current Assets/Current Liabilities    1.0       1.0   1.1    1.1
Provisions as % of Risk Assets         2.0      5.0   8.0   13.0
Deposits Growth rate %                24.3    22.5  21.3   20.4
Rural Loans Growth rate %             26.1    26.5  19.9   19.7
Total Assets Growth rate %            26.1    26.5  19.9   19.7
Equity Growth rate %                  11.0    41.4  41.0   30.7
Cost Recovery
6.9       Agricultural Services.  Because pesticide cost savings are immediate and
obvious, farmers are more likely to pay for IPM and other pest management services
provided by Government and it is expected that local entrepreneurs will eventually
offer competing services. A fee would be charged for IPM services at least at a
nominal level. Government, provincial and national, would bear most of the cost of
extension services. Most of the cost of services would consist of recurrent costs
of personnel already on Government payroll and whose cost would be borne by Government
with or without the project.
6.10      Rural Credit.  With interest rates being set above the cost of funds and
with sufficient provisions for bad debts VBA would recover its costs fully.
Government would not recover its costs from V2A since these would be contribution to
equity - which would have to be made with or without the project. Government would
recover part of its costs through taxes on VEA income, and indirectly through border
taxes.
7/    International standard is at least 8% for commercial bank.



- 36 -
6.11      Rubber Develonment.  Government would recover costs fully since repayment
of rubber development loans at market interest rates would be returned to Government
by VEA. Assuming no SRC defaults.
Proiect Risks
6.12      The major project risk is from budgetary inadequacy, particularly for
recurrent  cost expenditure.    Inadequate provision for salaries  and operating
expenditures would result in poorly motivated support services personnel who would
not be able to function satisfactorily, a situation commonly occurring at this time,
Only those provinces for which satisfactory arrangements for recurrent cost
expenditure, particularly wages, had been made would be included.   The project
includes disbursement for operating expenses, on a declining basis, to assist during
the project period but satisfactory arrangements for the long run are required. The
major risk for the credit component would be the failure of Government to quickly
resolve the issue of SOE debt.   Similarly,  the debt issue and the uncertain
legislative context of attempts to attract private capital and foreign technology pose
the greatest risk for rubber development and both are tied to progress with ongoing
institutional and other reforms.
Economic Analysis
6.13      The without project situation is defined as a continuation of the present.
The with project situation is defined as a continuation of the present plus the
quantifiable benefits of the project less all project costs. Benefits and recurrent
costs are calculated over 20 years. The quantifiable benefits are incremental rice
production from the combined agricultural services and credit components and
incremental rubber production and improved rubber grades.   Costs and prices are
expressed in constant 1993 US$ and commodity prices used are from projections made
in February 1993. Local costs are converted into US$ at VNDIO,700/US$1, the exchange
rate of late 1993. This rate is assumed to reflect a market rate. Other costs and
prices were estimated at their fob/cif price or at local prices assumed to reflect
market conditions.   The rate of return on investment in rubber rehabilitation is
estimated to be about 52* (Annex 10). The high rate of return is expected and is due
to considerable sunk costs in tree establishment and infrastructure.
6.14      For investment in annual crops and in rehabilitation of existing trees, a
more useful measure of economic viability is incremental benefit/cost ratios with
benefit/cost ratios of 1.5-2.0, including risk premium, being acceptable. During
project preparation, a survey was undertaken by NIAPP to establish yield response to
fertilizer. The average incremental benefit/cost ratios were found to vary from 1.9:1
in the Central Coast to over 3:1 in the Red River Delta (Table 6.5). For rubber the
incremental benefit/cost ratios varied between 2:1 and 4:1, supporting the high payoff
indicated by the IRR analysis.



- 37 -
Table 6.5: Viet Nam-Response to Nitrogen Fertilizer in Rice
Average N Response      Incremental
(kg naddy/kr N)   Benefit/Cost Ratio
Red River Delta              23                 3.4/1
North Central                15                 2.2/1
Central Coastline            13                 1.9/1
Mekong Delta                 19                 2.8/1
6.15      Impact  on  Poverty  Alleviation  Goal.    The  smallholder  credit  and
agricultural services components would directly target rural communities, among which
the incidence of poverty is greater than in the country as a whole. The limit on
individual sub-loan size (para. 5.10) would insure that credit proceeds would not be
available to large borrowers.   The rehabilitation of the rubber subsector and
preparation of a rubber smallholder development under the project would be the first
stage in providing a sustainable alternative for upland farmers within the
government's "barren hills" poverty reduction program.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       At negotiations, the Government:  (a)  confirmed the list of provinces to
participate in the support services component based on capacity to implement project
activities; (b) confirmed VBA's agreement to implement the institutional development
plan  (para.  5.11); and  (c) agreeed with IDA on detailed procedures for local
competitive bidding (LCB) for contracts to be financed under the project (para.
4.7).
Agreements
7.2       Agreements were reached with GOV that:
(a) MAFI and VBA would maintain separate project accounts and that translated
versions of Budgets, Accounts and Audit Reports prepared by independent
auditors satisfactory to IDA, including separate audit opinions on the use
of funds disbursed against Statements of Expenditure would be made
available to IDA, not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year (para. 4.16);
(b)  VBA would have its accounts audited by an independent auditor satisfactory
to IDA no later than December 31, 1994 (para. 5.11);
(c)  Government and VBA would ensure that all training and studies under the
project would be carried out in accordance with training programs, terms
of reference and timing satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.1);



- 38 -
(d) VBA would prepare and adopt an Operations Policy Manual, acceptable to IDA,
setting out policies and procedures for on-lending under the Credit and
that the Manual would not be changed without agreement with IDA (para.
5.7);
(e) Government would pass 50* of the funds for smallholder sub-loans to VBA as
an equity contribution and would on-lend the balance to VBA at a variable
rate.   For rubber company sub-loans, VBA would act as financial agent
(paras 4.3, 4.4). All sub-loans in VND would bear interest at an annual
rate which would exceed VBA's weighted average cost of borrowing plus a
margin to adequately cover VBA's cost of making and collecting the
smallholder sub-loans, all determined in a manner satisfactory to IDA. All
sub-loans in US Dollars would bear interest at a rate which would exceed
the six-month LIBOR rate for six-month dollar rate plus a margin to
adequately cover the cost of making and collecting the rubber
rehabilitation sub-loans, determined in a manner satisfactory to IDA, with
the sub-borrower bearing the foreign exchange risk.  The interest rate
would be fixed at the time of making the sub-loan for maturity of up to one
year, and for all other maturities would be a variable rate reset by VBA
(para. 4.5). No sub-loans would be made to smallholders for an amount
greater than the equivalent of US$20,000 without prior agreement with IDA
(para. 5.9).
(f) VBA would implement an institutional development program to strengthen its
financial and institutional capacity as a commercial bank (para. 5.11);
(g) GRC would carry out a survey of effluent treatment in all existing rubber
factories by June 30, 1997, and, based on the survey's results, the state
rubber companies would upgrade their effluent treatment facilities by June
30, 1997, to meet acceptable international standards, and would train their
staff in the environmentally sound use of agricultural chemicals (para.
5.18).
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.3       The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) signature of the Financing Agreement between Government and VBA (para.
4.5);
(b) establishment of three PCUs: in MAFI's Planning Department, VBA and GRC
(para. 5.1).
Conditions of Disbursement
7.4       Preparation and adoption of a revised Operational Policy Manual by VBA for
project on-lending to smallholders would be a condition of disbursement for
smallholder sub-loans (para. 5.7).
Recommendation
7.5       with the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR69.4 (US$96 million equivalent).



Viet Nam
Agwlaubuad RehabldiUon Project
C-_ P    Cost -m
%    % Tcdal
(MiO M! Loojn                (1s-$ 100)           Forg    Sass
Local    Fcrebp     Totl      Local  Foreign    Total  Exchange Costs
A. Agriultl Seices
i. EUenfn Ser9vles                          74,665    46.010     120,676    6,382    3,933    10.314     38      10
2. PWt Pnoecbon                             16.316    23,699      40,015    1,395    2,026    3,420      59       3
3. AuAurllw  Research Strengtwng             1,830     8,068       9.919     156      691      648       82       1
4. Arktural Sector Mwanageent                  614     7,415       8,029      53      634      686       92       1
Subotoal Agricun Soervices                    93,425    85.213     178.638    7,985    7,283    15.268     48      15
BE Rural Credit
1. Lne of Credit                           305,370   305.370    610,740   26,100   26,100    52,200      50      50
2. VBA Senrghening                           4,880    27,495      32175      400    2,350     2.750      t5       3
Subtotal Rund Crdi                           310,050   332,865     642,915   26.500   25.450    54,950     52      53
C. Rubber Rebabfton
1. Rubber Plntaiom                          45,585   185.067     230,652    3,896   15,818    19.714     80      19
2. Rubber Factoies                          31,239   104,481     135,720    2,670    8.930    11.600     77      11
3. Rubber Research Stre rngn                   293     4,740       5,032      25      405      430       94       -
4. Rubber Secdor Deveopment                  4,366    26,033     30,420      375    2.225     2,600      66       2
Subtotal Rubber RehabilIIation                81,504   320,320     401.824    6,966   27,378    34,344     60      33
Total BASEUNE COSTS                           484,979  873,398    t223.377   41.451   63,111   104.562      60    100
Physical CorOWncles
Price Contingences                           7,912    17,217      25.129     676    1,472     2.148      69       2
Total PROJECT COSTS                           492.691   755,615   1,248.506   42,127   64,582   106,710     61    102
IX



Viet Nam
Agiultural RehabUtaon Project
Expenditur Ac:counts Projec Cost Summery
%    % Total
MVND Mlion)                   4US$ '@00)          Foreign   Base
Local   Foregn      Total     Local  Freign    Total  Eche Costs
I. hwtnet Costs
A. CMv Works                                31,239    20,826      52,065    2,670    1.780    4,450      40      4
B. Equipment                                     -   111,442     111,442       -   9,525     9,525      100      9
C. Vehtdes                                       -    17,468      17,468       -    1,493     1,493     100       1
0. Agrkcltral Inpts
Fertilzes                                      -   106,558     106,558       -   9,108      9,108     100      9
Chemkials                                  2,682    74,998      77,680     229    6,410     6,639      97      6
SubtotalAgrculturalb"lns                     2,682   181,557     184,239     229   15,518    15,747      99      15
E.MateialstforE permtentaon                      -    2,937       2,937        -     251       251      100       -
F. Fhdd Labor                               42,903         -     42,903    3,667        -    3,667        -      4                 0
G. Traknng                                  32,270    30,398     62,669    2,758    2,598     5,356      49      5
H. Lne of Credit                           305,370   305,370    610,740   26,100   26,100    52,200      50     50
1. ntmentInal Speciali Serices                   -   55,356       55,356       -   4,731      4,731     100      5
J. Funds for Studis                              .    4,680        4,680       -     400       400      100       -
Total hwesmnent Costs                        414,464   730,033   1,144,498   35,424   62,396    97,820     64     94
R. Recurrent Cost
A. O&M                                       8,365     8,365      16,729     715     715      1,430      50       1
B. Traed Ailwances                          17,620         -      17,620    1,506       -     1,506       -      1
C. Field Activities                         43,536         -     43,536    3,721        -    3,721        -      4
D. Fkid Labor                                  994         -        994       85        -       85        -       -
Total Recrent Costs                           70,515     8,365     78,880 _,027        715      6,742      11      6
Total BASELINE COSTS                          484,979   738,398   1,223,377   41,451   63,111   104,562    60    100
Phyca Cotiegecies                                          - -       -              -       - -
Price ContingenIes                           7,912    17,217     25,129      676    1,472     2,148      69      2
Ttda PROJECT COSTS                            492,891   755,615   1,248,506   42,127   64,582   106,710    61    102
t- DX
N F



Viet Non
-A     l RdeboMn Prject
Eldension
Oetbd Costa
(US$ 00)
Quanti"                             Bae Cost                Totda  Iwcudi  Co en'Ies
unt     1934       114      1199     Tota      134    1M       1Be    Total    1        136    193      TOal_
L bnvement CostB
A. Equipme
Audio Vua Equipt /a                       uni                                              150      58       -      208     152      60        -     212
OfficecwhmccgEquptib                      unit                                              28      25        -      53      28      26        -      54
Communcat   Eqpt /C                       unt                                                5       -       -        5       5        -       -       5
Lab & FId EquWpt                          unt                                               R4      50        -     134      a5      52        -     137
Electrical Equtptld                       unIt                                                      49              199     152      51        -     203
SUbtoa  EquI4m                                                                               417                      mg -  599  423  190        -     612
B. Vehicles
FewuWheelDDriveVces                       unt          14        10        -        24     700     500       -    1,200     710    521         -    1,231
Mbn Buses                                 unt           3         -        -         3      90       -       -       90      91        -       -      91
Pick up Tnu                               urit                    -        -         1      25       -       -       25      25       -       -
Subtotal VehIces                                                                             815     500       -    1,316    828      521        -    1,3ad
C. Traiit
Orienton Trainin                          unt                                               52       -       -       52      53        -       -      53
Extensin Metdology Trainig                unK                                              200      20      20      240    203       21      21      245
Subject Matr Specilty Trainig             unIt                                             128     128     128      383     129     133     137      399
Fanners Fid Schools                       unKt                                             4B0    480      480    1,440    487      500     514    1.501                     I
Study Tours                               unit                                              68       -        -      68      68        -       -      68
Subtota TraIing                                                                              927    628      628    2,182    940      654     672    2.267
D. Technic  Asl itance
ExtemionSpeclallt                        mn70dt        12         9        -        21     150     113       -      263     152     117        -     269
Tralning Speclist                        month          8         -        -         6      75               -       75      76                -      76
Farmnr Syste    Spelalat                mont           3         -        -         3      38       -       '       38      38       -               38
OtherSpechliats                          mont           4         4        4        12      50      50      50      150      51      52      54      156
Subtoal Technical Assistance                                                                 313     163      50      525    317    169        54      540
Totl nvestment Costs                                                                         2,472   1,472    678    4,621   2,506   1.534      726    4,767
L Recurren Costs
A. O&M
O&M Vehicles                              unr                                               60     100     300      460      61     104    321       487
O&M Equipt                                unit                                             105     120     120      345     106     125    129       360
Subtotal O&M                                                                                 165    220      420      805     167     229    450       847
B. Tral Allowances                          unt                                              450     450     450    1,350    456      469     482    1,408
C. Fied Actvlies
Fild Denstratons                          unit                                             600     600    600    1,800      60B    625    643    1,877
Field Days                                unt                                              300     300     300      900     304    313    321        938
Pubtlictons & Radio 8adcsts               untl                                              63     110     110      283      64     115     1t8      296
Workshops & Semninars                     unit                                             185    185      185      555     188     193    198       579
Subtotal Field Acivits                                                                     1,148   1,195   1,195    3,538   1 ,164   1,246   1 )2a1    3,690
Total RecurrenetCos                                                                          t1,763   1,865    2,065      5,693   1,788   1,944   2,213    5,945            -3
Total                                                                                         4,235   3,337   2,743   10,314   4,294   3,478   2939   10,711                0)
(D X
ba cil. video cameras, side prpectors, screens. etc.                                                                                                                        w  -
lb in. compuers, priters, copie, etc.
c hci.  ephones, fxes anrd radio tnetves.
d Wnc. wltage stabiliz. pgnertors. etc.



VMet Nam
Agultural RehabiDtaton Project
Plant Protecton
Deailed Cost
(US$ 000)
Quantiies                           Base Cost              Totds ncludin Contincis
Unit    1994     1996     1996      Total    1094    1995    1996   Totl 199          19      1       Total
1. nvestmen Costs
A. Equipment
Audio Visul Equlpt               unit                                             74        -       -      74      75       -        -     75
Communkation Equipt /a           unit                                            515        -       -    515      522       -        -    522
Lab & Fleld Equipt               unit                                             43        -       -      43      44       -       -      44
Subtotl Equipment                                                                  633        -       -    633      641        -       -    641
S. Training
Traing of IPM Trainers           unit                                            150     150      150     450     152     156     161     469
Farmers Field Schools            unit                                            175     360     530   1,065      177     375     568   1,121
Pest Monitoring Training         unit                                             25      25      25       75      25      26      27      78
Subtotal Training                                                                  350     535      705   1,590     355     558     755   1.668
C. TechnicalAsslstance            month         9         9        9        27     113     113      113     338     114     117     121     352
Total nvestnent Costs                                                               1,095    648      818   2,560   1,110     675     876   2,661
B. Recurrent Costs
A. O&M
O&M Vehiles                      unit                                             63     123      123     309      64     128     132     324
O&M Equipt                       unit                                             50      81      81      212      51      84      87     222
Subtotal O&M                                                                       113     204     204      521     115     213     219     546
S. Travel Alowances                unit                                             52      52      52      156      53      54      56     163
C. Field Activities
Field Demonstrations             unit                                             30      45      45      120      30      47      48     126
Workshops & Seminars             unit                                             21      21      21       63      21      22      23      66
Subtl Fild Actvies                                                                  51      66      66      183      52      69      71     191
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                216     322      322     860     219     336     345     900
Total                                                                               1,311     970   1,140   3,420   1,329   1,011    1,221   3,561
-3 W
\a nd. telephones, faxes and radio transceivers                                                                                                           - 
o x



Viet Nam
Agncultural Rehabiflteon Project
0 Mon Rice Research Institute
Detailed Costs
(USS)
Totals Inchuding ContIngencies
Quantities                             Base Cost (O000)                   ('000)
Unit   1994    1995   1998    Total  Unit Cost  1994   1995   1996   Total   1994   1995   1996   Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Equipment
Audio Visual Equipt /a               unit                                                   5       2      2       9       5       2      2      10
Offce Technology                     unit                                                  21       -       -     21      21       -       -     21
Electrical Equipt                    unit                                                   2       -       -      2       2       -       -      2
Laboratory Equipt                    unit                                                 140       -       -    140    142        -       -    142      w
Subtotal Equipment                                                                          169       2      2    173    171         2      2    175
B. Materials for Experimentation       unit                                                  45       5      S      55      46       5      5      56
C. Vehicles
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle             unit         I       -       -       1    30,000      30       -       -     30      30       -       -     30
Motorcycles                          unit         6       -       -       6     2,000      12       -       -     12      12       -       -     12
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                            42       -       -     42      43       -       -     43
Total Investment Costs                                                                        256       7      7    270    259         7      8    274
II. Recurrent Costs
A, O&M Vehicles & Equipt               unit                                                  12     24      24      59      12      25     25      62
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                          12     24      24      59      12      25     25      62
Total                                                                                         267      31      31    329    271       32      33    336
la Incl. research poumals at US$2000 per year
JD X
Ln 



Viet Nam
Ag tural Rehabifion Project
Natonal Ag. Research Insrt
Detailed Cost
(USS ')
Quantties                        Base Cost               Totals Includin"  ConincIes
Unit   1994    1995    1996    Total    1994    1995    1996    Total   1994    1995    1996   Total
I. westbnent Costs
A. Equipment
Acdlo Visual Equipt                     untt                                           1        -       -       I       1        -       - 
Office Technology                       unrt                                                            8       8       8        -       -       8
Elctical Equipt                         unit                                           1        -       -       1       1        -       -       1
Fied bxperimental Equipt                unit                                          16        -       -      16      16        -       -      16
Subtoa EquImt                                                                           26        -       -      26      27        -       -      27
B. Materials for Expedimentafton          unit                                          27       17      17      61      28      18       18      63
C. Vehicles
Four Wheel Drive Vehlide                unit          I               -        1      30        -       -      30      30        -       -      30
Motorcyces                              unk4 4                                 4       8        -       -       8       8       -        -      8
Subtl Vehicles                                                                         38        -       -      38      39        -       -      39
D. Training
Hybrid Seed Production Training         unit                                          10      10       10      30      10      10      11      31
Stdy Tours /a                           unit                                           5       5        -       9       5       5        -       9
Subtoa Training                                                                         15      15       10      39      15      15      11       41
Totl Investent Costs                                                                      106      31      27     164     108      33       29     169
P. Recurnt Costs
A. O&M Vehicles & Equipt                  unit                                           5        7       7      20       5       8        8      21
B. Field Labor                            undt                                          28      28       28      85      29      30       30      eg
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                      33      36      36     105      34      37       38     109
Total                                                                                     140      67      63      269     141      70      67     278
b for Hybrid Seed Production
a x



- 45 -                  Annex 1
Table 7
.1   rs a  
! aR,- aag -
I-1
3gg
a  ag 
' B::::
P~_oi!



Viet Nam
Agricultural Rehablition Project
Agricultural Sector Management
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantdtes                       Bass Cost             Totas Inrduding Contingencies
Unit   1994    1995    1996    Total   1994   1995   1996   Total   1994   1995   1996   Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Equipment
Office Technology Equipt                       unit                                         50       -       -     50      51      -       -     51
B. Training
Pollcy Ana"s Courses                           unit         1       I        1       3       5      5       5      15      5       5       5     16
Project Preparation Courses                    unit         1       1        1       3       5       5      5      15      5       5       5     16   1
Project Management Courses                     unit         1       1        1       3       5       5      5      15      5       5       5     16
Overseas Study Tours                           unit                                         20     20      20      60     20      21      21     63   v
Subtotal Training                                                                             35     35      35    105      35      36      38    109
C. Technical Assistance
SubjectMatterSpeclalists/a                    month       1.5      1.5     1.5      4.5     19      19     19      56      19     20      20     59
Project Preparation & Management              month         3       -        -       3      38       -       -     38     38       -       -     38
Policy Analyss & Strategy Formulaton lb       month        3        -        -       3      38       -       -     38     38       -       -     38
Subtota Technical Assstance                                                                   94      19     19    131      95      20      20    135
D. Studies
MAFI Organization Study                        unit                                        300       -      -    300    304        -       -    304
Other Studies                                  unit                                          -    100        -    100       -    104       -    104
Subtot Studies                                                                               300    100       -    400    304    104         -    408
Total                                                                                          479    154      54    686    485    160        58    703
ba for training courses
%b for Rubber Development
tr 
X
tD x



Viet Nam
Agricutufral Rehabiliaon Project
Une of Credit
Detailed Costs
(US$ W00C)
Quantti                         Base Cost                 Totas inckiding Conffngncies
Unit   1994   199S   1996   Total   1994    1995    1996    Total    1994    1995    1996    Total
I. Inestmnt Costs
A. Shor-Term Credit
Northem Region                  unit                                    2,200    2,200    2,200    6,600    2,200    2,200    2,200    6,600
Central Region                  unit                                     1,400    1,400    1,400    4,200    1 A00    1,400   1A40   4.200
Southern Region                 unit                                    2,200    2,200    2,200    6,600    2200    2,200    2,200    6,600
Subtotl Short-Term Credit                                                 5,800    5,800    5,800   17,400    5,800    5,800    5,800   17,400
B. Medium-Tenm Credit
Northem Region                  unit                                    2,800    2,800    2,800    8,400    2,800    2,800    2,800    8,400
Central Region                  unit                                    3,400    3,400    3,400   10,200    3,400    3,400    3,400   10,200
Southem Region                  unit                                    5,400    5,400    5,400   16,200    5,400    5,400    5,400   16,200
Subtotl Medium-Term Credit                                                11,600   11,600   11,600   34,800   11,600   11,600   11,600   34,800
Total                                                                       17,400   17,400   17,400   52,200   17,400   17,400   17,400   52,200
OD X
so w



Viet Nam
AlkctreM RehableOtn Projet
VBA S_sqwf
Datebd Costs
(US$ '000)
Quanties                   _        Base Cost              Totals Inckhd"g Coningencis
Uni     1994      1199      1996     Total    1994    1996    19S6   Total   1994    1995    1996   Total
L Iwnvesmet Costs
A. Training
Couwses & Sembis                    unit                                             200     300    300      800    203      313    321       837
Training Equipt                     unit                                             200       -        -    200     203        -       -    203       O
Subtotal TraInn                                                                        400    3U0      300   1,000     406     313    321   1,040
B. Techncal Assistance
MIS Speclaw                        month          6         2        2        10      75      25      25     125      76      26      27      129
LedngProcedesExpet                 mont           6         2        2        10      75      25      25     125      76      26      27      129
CreditRlsckSpecaNst                month         12         4        4        20     1S0      50      50     250     152      52      54     258
Accoutn*lBakldng Expeft            month         12         4        4        20     150      s0      50     250     152      52      54    2568
Aut                                monih         40        40        -        80     500     500        -   1,000    507     521        -   1,028
Stta Technical Assisbnce                                                               950    650      150   1,750    963    678       161   1,602
Toal                                                                                    1,350    950      450   2,750   1.369     990     482   2,641
ox



Vit Non
Awciural Rehabititn Prject
Rubber PWatbo
Dead CoSIS
(US)
Totads kIctudi  Cotilgncs
auesm                                     Uni                                  OSkW conmrl           d
Unrt      1994           19            1996           Tetl       Cost   199414 65   19          Total   1994    9       19i     Tot
L. tmboesw Costa
A. Agucdoiurel "ipts
1. Hwbiode (Ghyphosete)             tW           306,000        120,000        20,000       445,000      7   Z135    840    140    3,115   2165    876    150    3,191
2. Pe,Utilt
Ursa                              ton           14,138         10,746         8,152        33,036    165   2333   1,773   1,345    5,451   2.365   1,848   1,441    5.655
RockPhowhSt                       ton           13,949         10,582         8,089        32,620      80   1,116    847    647    Z610   1,132    882    693    2707
Potash                            ton            3,375         2,529          2028           7,932    132    446    334    268    1,047    452    348    287 107             3_
8uMataI FewlIwS                                                                                              3,894   2,953  2260    9,108   3,949   3.079   2,422    9.449 M
3. Fwu  ns
CopperSuafte                       kg          325,000       265,000        215,000       805,000       1    260    212    172       644    264    221    184        669
Lme                               ton            1,850          1,515         1,220         4,585      50     93      76      61     229      94      79      65     238
Okbdnm                           kg            17,500         19,000        20,500        57,000       7    128    139    ISO       416    130    145    160        434
Cthx ChwntoRs                      kg                                                                        100    100    100       300    101      104    107      313
Sutbobd FuqkMn9k s                                                                                             580    526    483    1.589    588    549    517    ,654-
4. Yidd SiunuM                      NW           330,000       415,000        545,000      1,290,000      2    495    623    818   1.935    502    649_876    2,027
SubtawAsedAtsbad kw"s                                                                                           7,104   4,942   3,700   15,77   7204   5,152   3,6    16.32
B. FlUd Labor
wntmgeAreas                         ha            46,250        35,400         2,200        107,850     34   1,573   1,204    BP#    3,667   1.595   1256    956    3.804
C. Equlm
Agikbiura Eqeprntn                  un                                                                          50      50      50    1S       51      52      54     156
OMfi Tedwbgy Equ*mw,gl             uW                                                                           50     50      50      150      51      52     54      156
ShdwEugiqiim*m                                                                                                   100    100    100       300    101   1IN       107     3-13
Toa                                                                                                               86,7    6246   4,691   19.714  -.90    6.511   5,027   20.437
I9 



Viet Nam
Agricultural Rehablttlon Project
Rubber Factories
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Totla Including ContingencIes
Quanites                               Base Cost tooo)                    Cooom
Unit      1994    1995    1996    Total  Unit Cost  1994   1995   1996    Total   1994   1995   1996    Total
l Investment Costs
A. New Factory Constuction
1. Cmi Works
Factory BuWlding                    New Factory       -       3        2       5  570,000            1,710   1,140    2,850     -  1.782   1.222    3,004
AncilaryBufldngs/a                   NewFactory       -        3       2        5   70,000       -    210    140      350       -    219    150      369    un
Factory Roads                       New Factory       -       3        2       5  250,000        -    750    500    1,250       -    782    538    1.318    0
Subtotal Cil Works                                                                                 -  2,670   1,780   4,450       -  2,783   1,907    4,691
2. Latex Proceseng Une                New Factory       -       3        2       5   500,000       -  1,500   1,000    2.500      -  1,564   1,072    2.635
3. Andcilary Equlpment                New Factory       -       3        2       5  410,000       -  1,230    820    2,050        -  1,282    879    2.161
Subtotal New Factoy Construction                                                                        5,400   3,600    9,000         5,629   3.858   9,487
B. Factory RoeabilIation
Latex Procesang Une                       unit          -       2        1       3   500,000       -  1.000    500    1,500           1,042    536    1,578
Lower Grade Processing Une                unrt                   1      -       1  700,000             700       -     700       -    730       -     730
AncilaryEqulpment                         unit          -       3        1       4   100,000       ^    300    100      400       -    313    107      420
Total                                                                                                  -  7,400   4,200   11,600          7,714   4,501   12.214
a hd ponds for effluent treatment
I F3 :P
f-aX



Viet Nam
Agriculwa Rehabion Project
Rubber Research Strengthening
Doeai,ed Costs
(US$)
Totals including ContigencIs
Unit   1994    1995    1996    Tota   Unit Cost  1994   19958  1996   T             1994   1995   1996   Total
L Investment Costs
A. Equipment
1. Lab Equipment
Atomic Absorption Apparatus                 unit                                                    25       -       -     25      25       -       -      25
Other Apparatus                             unit                                                    10     10      10      30      10      10      11     31
Other Eqipment/a                            unit                                                    10     1O      10      30      10      10      11      31
Lab Chemicals                               unt                                                     5       5       5      15       5       5       5      16
Subtotal Lab Equipment                                                                                50     25      25    100       51      26      27    104
2. Agricultural Equipment                     unit                                                    6       6       8      20       6       6       8     20
3. Vehicles
Motorcyces                                  unit                                                    4       4       -       8       4       4       -      8
Automobles                                  unt                                                     30     30        -     60      30      31       -     82
Subtotal Vehicls                                                                                     34      34        -     68      34      35       -     70
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                     90      65      33    188       91      68      35    194
EL Materias for Experimentation
Fertfizers                                    unt                                                     3       4       4      10       3       4       4      10
Chemicals                                     unit                                                   18      19      19      55      18      19      20     57
Subbotal Maerials for Experimenbtion                                                                   21      22      23      65      21      23      24     68
C. Training
Demonstrations & Seminars                     unt                                                    15      15      20      50      15      16      21     52
ShortTerm Feiowhilps lb                       unit                                                   10      10      10      30      1O      10      11      31
Overses Masters/c                             unit                                                   20      30      10      60      20      31      11     62
Subtotal TraIning                                                                                      45      55      40    140       46      57     43    140
D.TechnicalAs_lntnce/d                        month         1        1        1        3    12.500     13      13      13      38      13      13      13     39
Toal                                                                                                     188    155    108    430    170    161         115    447
la Water, ioght and cdmass for bborators
lb 4 toO months for 2 personsyear
%o 2 ycars at $10,OOOear for 3 peron s
ld to     tin research progrsn manageme n t



Viet Nam
Agrcultural Rehabiliation Project
Rubber Sector Development
Detailed Co
(USS)
Totals Including Continoeno.e
Quantitie                                   Base CostmCO)                       CMOS
UnK     1994      1995      1996      Total   Unit Cost  1994  m1995 1996   Total   1994   1995   1996   Toal
I. Investment Costs
A. Ofoe Equipment /a                     unKt                                                        50      50      50    150       51      52      54    158
B. Training Activities
Domestic Trailngi                      unit                                                        50    100    100    250         51    104    107    262    U
Overseas Traininrg                     unKt                                                        50    100    100    250         51    104    107    262
Subtotl Training ActvitIes                                                                          100    200    200    500    101    208    214    524
C. Tochnical Assisbtnce
Short-term Technical Assistance       month         10        15         5        30    12,500    125    188       63    375    127    195         67    389
Long-term Technical Assistance        month         10        24        24        58    12,500    125    300    300    725    127    313    321    781
Rubber Project Preparston             month          4        24        24        52    12,500     50    300    300    650         51    313    321    685
Audit of Rubber Companies             month          4         6         6        16    12,500     50      75      75    200       51      78      80    209
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                       350    863    738   1,950    355    899    790   2,044
Total                                                                                                  500   1,113    988   2,600    507   1,180   1,058   2,725
b for Rubber Component Coordination
i-3.
Ho
X



Viet Nam
Agriultural Rehabilitation Project
Components by Financbie
(USS '000)
State Rubber
Plantatn    Vletnam Bank for                                               Lcal
IDA         Companies      Agriculture    The Government       Total            For.   (Excl.  Duti &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount    %    Amount   %          Amount    %       Exch.  Taxes)  Tae
A. Agricultural Services
1. Extensbon Services                      7,797    72.8      -       -       -        -  2,914    27.2   10,711    10.0   4,057    6,655        -
2. Plant Protection                        2,869    80.6              -                -    692    19.4    3,561     3.3   2.100    1,461               L
3. Agricultural Research Strengthening       672    77.3      -       -       -        -    197   22.7       870     0.8     706      163        -     w
4. Agrlcu;tural Sector Management            703   100.0      -       -       -        -      -       -      703    0.7    649         55        -
Subotal Agriculturd ServIces                12,042   76.0       -       -       -        -  3,804    24.0   15,845    14.8   7,512    8,333
B. Rural Cradit
1. Une of Credit                          49,590    95.0      -       -   2,610      5.0      -       -   52,200    48.9  26,100   26.100
2. VBA Stengthening                        2841   100.0                    -          - -                   2,841    2.7   2.423      418
SubtoWa Rural Credit                        52,431    95.3      -       -   2,610      4.7      -       -   55,041    51.6  28,523   26,518       -
C. Rubber Rehabilitaton
1. Rubber Plantatons                      16,610   81.3  3,828    18.7        -        -      -       -   20,437    19.2  16,395    4,042
2. RubberFactories                         11,745    96.2    469    3.8       -        -      0       -   12,214    11.4   9,400    2,814
3. Rubber Research StrengthenIn              447   100.0      -       -       -        -      -       -      447     0.4    421        26
4. Rubber Sector DOevelopent               2,725   100.0      -       -       -        -      -       -    2,725     2.6   2,332      393
Tobl Dustme                                  96,000    90.0  4,297    4.0   2,610      24   3,804      3.6  106,710   100.0  64,582   42,127



Viet Nam
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financlers
(US$ '000)
State Rubber
Plantation    Vletnam Bank for                                              Local
IDA         Companies       Agriculture   The Government        Total            For.   (ExcL.  Outies &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount    %    Amount   %           Amount    %       Exch.   Taxes)  Taxes
1. Investment Costs
A. CMI Works                                4,222    90.0    469    10.0       -        -      0             4,691     4.4   1.876    2,814
B. Equipment                                9,953   100.0      -                        -       -      -    9,953      93    9,953        -
C. Vehicles                                 1,529   100.0      -       -       -        -       -      -    1,529      14    1.529        -        -
D. Agricultural Inputs
Fertilizers                               9,449   100.0      -       -        -       -              -    9.449      8 9    9,449       -
Chemicals                                 6.848    99.7     24     0.3                               -     6,872     6.4   6,634      238       -
Subtotal Agricultural Inputs               16,297    99.9     24    0.1                                -   16,321    153   16.083       238
E. Materials for Experimentation             259   100.0       -       -       -        -       -      -      259      02      259        -        -
F. Field Labor                                  -      -  3.804   100.0        -                -      -    3,804      36        -   3,804
G. Training                                 5.592   100.0      -       -       -        -       -      -    5,592      5 2    2,712    2,880
H. Line of Credit                          49,590    95.0      -       -   2610       50        -      -   52,200    489   26,100   26,100
I. Intemational Specialist Services         4,911   100.0      -       -       -        -       -      -    4,911      46    4.911        -
J. Funds for Studies                         408   100.0       -       -       -        -       -      -       408     0.4     408        -        -
Total Investment Costs                       92,762    93.1  4,297     4.3   2.610      2.6       -      -   99,668    934   63,832   35,836        -
II. Recurrent Costs
A. O&M                                          -      -       -       -       -        -  1,501   100.0    1,501      1.4     751      751        -
B. Travel Allowances                         936    59.6       -       -       -        -    634    40.4    1,570      1.5       -   1,570         -
C. Field Activities                         2,302    59.3      -       -       -        -  1,580    40.7    3.882      3 6       -   3,882
D. Field Labor                                  -       -      -       -       -        -     89   100.0        89     01        -       89
Total Recurrent Costs                         3,238    46.0      -       -       -        -  3,804    54.0    7.042      66      751   6,291  -
Total Disbursement                           96,000    90.0  4, ..    4.0   2,610        2.4  3,804     3.6  106,710   100 0   64.582   42,127
I X



Mfet Nam
Agicultural Rehlabltadon Project
Disbumeement Accounts by Fknanciers
(USS '000)
Sate Rubber
P    banation    Vietnam Bank for                                           Local
IDA         Companis        Agriculure     The Govefmment       Total             For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amoumt   %    Amowunt   %    Amount    %    Amowunt   %          Amoumt    %       Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes
CMh Works                             4,222    90.0    469    10.0       -        -      0       -    4.691      4.4   1,876    2,814        -
Equipment and Vehicles               11,482   100.0      -       -       -        -       -           11,482    10.8  11,482        -
Agricultral Inputs                   16,297    99.9    24      0.1       -        -       -      -    16,321    15.3  16,083      238
Materials for Experimentaton           259   100.0       -      -        -        -       -      -       259     02      259        -
Fied Labor                               -       -   3,804    97.7       -        -     89      2.3    3,892     3.6       -   3,892
Une ot Credit                       49,590    95.0       -      -   2,610       5.0       -      -    52,200    48.9  26,100   26,100
Trainng & Technical Assstance        10,503   100.0      -      -        -        -      -       -    10,503     9.8   7,623    2,880
Studies                                408   100.0       -      -        -        -       -      -       408     0.4     408
O&M                                                      -                        -   1,501   100.0    1,501     1.4     751      751M
Travel Allowances                      936    59.6       -       --    634    40.4    1,570                      1.5       -    1,570
Field Activtes                       2,302    59.3       -      -        -        -   1,580    40.7    3,882     3.6       -   3,882
Total                                  96,000    90.0  4,297     4.0   2,610      2.4  3,804      3.6  106,710   100.0  64,582   42,127
( x
w M)



- 56 -
Annex 2
Table 4
VIET NAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
Accumulated
IDA Fiscal Year         Semester       Disbursements          Disbursements
---------------- uSs-
1994                       II                5.0                    5.0
1995                        I                10.0                  15.0
II               20.0                  35.0
1996                        I               20.0                   55.0
II               20.0                  75.0
1997                        I                10.0                  85.0
II               11.0                  96.0



- 57 -
Annex 3
VIET NAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Anvroximate                        Duration        Skill                 Staff
Date                Activitv        (weeks}        Recuirement           Weeks
Jan. 1993             PLW             2            TM                        2
Apr. 1994             SPN             2            TM, IS, RS, PA,          12
RP, XS
July 1994             SPN             2            TM, RA, XS                6
Nov. 1994             AR              2            TM, FA, RA, RP,          10
Is
Feb. 1995             SPN             2            TM, FA, RA                6
June 1995             SPN             2            TM, XS                    4
Oct. 1995             MTR             2            TM, FA, RA, RP,          10
IS
April 1996            SPN             2            TM, FA, RA                6
Oct. 1996             AR              2            TM, XS, RS, IS            8
Feb. 1997             SPN             2            TM, FA                    4
June 1997             PCM             2            TM, FA, RA                6
Total                   74
Reauired Skills
TM    Task Manager/Agriculture Economist
FA    Financial Analyst/Banking Expert
TS    Training Specialist
XS    Extension Specialist
RS    Research Management Specialist
IS    Integrated Pest Management Specialist
RA    Rubber Agronomist
RP    Rubber Processing Specialist
Activity
PLW   Project Launch Workshop
SPN   Supervision
AR    Annual Review
PCM   Project Completion Mission



-  58  -                                           Annex  4
VIET NAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
16t4    1   1995           m 19         19971                     11
ID  Nam                                      Dur.   Start    Flnlsh   Q20304Q1C02 03 04 01 021Q3IQ4Q1  02lQ3lQ4112 Q2lQ31l04101la223
I   I AGRICULTURAL SERVICES                 16w      a11al4  6U27197                                           _ AGRIC JLtUIUL SERVICES
2       1.1 Establishment PCU (in MAFI)       ow    6111A4      61194       Estabishment PCU (In MAFI)
3       1.2 Extenhlon                       166w      11)94     127/7                                             Ex
4            1.2.1F   Rural Csus             26w      WI"/9   11/259l4                                    I   _ 
_            1.2.2PtIrocuquf pt&Va lhles    104w    611194    -29                                                       I
6            1.Z3 TraIning & Technicl Asst. 1S6w     gn/14    627/97    _
7            1.24 FId ActivIs               1Sw    W1194    612797          
8       1.3 Plnt Protecton                  16w      6/1/94    6/27/97                                            Pb
9            13.1 Ebshm  Frst IPM Unit    26w        61/94   11/29/94     -                               i
10           1.32 Procut Equipt & Vehides     62w    61/94    630/96          _
11           1.3.3 TraWning a Technil AlsL  166w    o_1/9    6/27i/7  _         ,_ _=
12           1I3A4 Fied AiIes                1S6w    611/94    6W27/97       ;_-__                          r
13      IAAgictrl ReeaRch                    166w     _1194    6R?S7                                              Agrkcui twResearch
16      1. Agr. Sta Management               1sw    6114    6u27mA7 .Ag SectorM
17           1.tl1 MAF Oraniason Study        62w     611/9    6/30/9S
18           162 Procut Eupt Veles            62w     611/"4    U3015L
19           1.3 Other Studies                62w     139  1n1n6 
20           ISA Talnfing &  Ydeal Assit   156w    ams4    &w197                                      --i-                  __
21  2 RURAL CRDIT                            1aw      6m194    6127197
RURALR cREDI
22       21 Establishment PCU (In VLA)         Ow r194           61194      Establishment PCU (In VBA)
23       2.2 Crdt Act6ns                     6sw      61/94    6/2/                                               Cedit Lts
24           22t1 Prepar OpwL Manual          26H    611is4   1ir2Si4
26           222 DIsbursent Sub-loans        130w   11tt0I4    6/2717                        _
26       2.3 VBA Isiuonal Delopen            1S6w    61S4    6127/97  ,j                                          VA InIlonDeeopmnt
27           2.3  Extemal Audit               12w     Gj/94    sn3/94    _
23             22  repao Inst Dev. Plan       26w 84/           21196
2            2.3.3 aImr'lunt Ptan            118w   2/R229     S617/97
30  3 RUBIERREIA3ILUTATON                    1S6w       11/94    6/77 S                                        _9REAL1AN
31      3.1 EstabIsment PJl     (in GRC)       Ow    611194     6/1/94 * EsAablishment PCU(I(in ORC)
32      3.2 Rubber Pflanatons                t6@w      11/94    6/2/97_
33           Z.1 Procurt Yer I Agro-4nputs    36w    611/94     2       _96  _      Procurt Year 1Agro.nputs
43           3.2.2 Procant Ye^rzAgro.InPuts    20t    l'         n                Procurt Year I2 Agro-fnps
43           3.a2 Pnowt Yer 2 Ago4na    29w    711496    1/12/5                 j        _      Procurt Year3 Agro4nputs j 
63           3.24 Fldd Rehabilitation        125w    Z/9/9     6m1797           i
& 33 Rubber FactorIe                    101w     6f11/94    6Wm6RubrFatre
U6           3.3.1 Factory Standardiation     30W     6411/4   127/94             Factory Stano rdkzation
__   .                                             ~           ~          ~ ~~~~~~I  .   .N
71           3A2 Prequaltlona   of BIdWes     12w    WTI"    I        /rW4|      Prequaliflcatlon of Bidders
79             3.3 New Fac    yConstuction    73w   1214194     617198         .
16            .A4 Factory Rehatan            69Jw   12141A4    411V9S|                              Factory Rehabllitaton|n
D8 33       Ruer8eetor Owdepmnt              1S6w    U11/94    612797                                             IRubbe Sector        l
_                  _                      |         }            I             s            ,             r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RMmrsc



- 59 -                               ANNEX S
Page 1 of 6
VIET NAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES
Introduction
1.          Agricultural support services are in a state of transition. Clients
have changed from being relatively few, large state farms, communes and production
cooperatives to some 10 million independent smallholders. The average size of
production unit has dropped from some 500 ha with a minimum of about 1,000
households per unit to 0.5 ha, or less and responsibility for production and
marketing decisions has shifted from central planners to individual farmers
themselves. The implications for agricultural support services are far reaching
and require reconsideration of the services to be provided, reformulation of their
objectives, reorganization of the service agencies, changes in methodologies
employed, major efforts in staff retraining and adequate funding. Government
policy is that farm services should be provided by the private sector to the
extent possible. In the event of market failure, Government would provide services
with full cost recovery, where feasible.
2.          Much of the required restructuring has already been accomplished.
Marketing services have been devolved to the private sector or to state-owned
companies in competition with the private sector. Farm credit is now available to
smallholders on commercial terms (Annex 6) and subsidies to state enterprises have
generally been stopped. At least for the medium term. most extension, plant
protection and research services will be provided by Government and with little
cost recovery on the grounds that only larger farmers in favored areas are likely
to pay a fee high enough to encourage private sector provision of these services.
Government has already reorganized MAFI's units dealing with extension and plant
protection as a first step to effective provision of these services and plans to
improve linkages between these units and the research institutes and universities
by establishing a farming systems network.
Aaricultural Extension
3.          Oraanization. Extension in Viet Nam is the joint responsibility of
MAFI's Department of Extension, created in February 1993 from the former
Department of Plant Production, and the provincial governments. The Department is
responsible for policy, planning, training national and sub-national programming,
supervision  and  evaluation,   interagency  coordination  and  international
cooperation. It maintains offices at the national and regional levels. The
provincial governments are responsible for implementation of the program down to
farm level. Funding and staffing of the Department is through MAFI while funding
and staffing at the local level is through the provincial authorities. Viet Nam
has a unified budget and, in principle, funding and staffing at both levels are
part of the same process and program.



- 60 -
Page 2 of 6
4.          Procram. The general program objective of the Department is to assist
farmers identify crop, technology, and management options to maximize net income
of the farm family and to communicate farmer and local authorities' concerns to
sectoral planners, researchers and other service providers. While the recent
production response to market liberalization and improved availability of farm
inputs has been accomplished in the virtual absence of effective extension, this
represents an adoption of well known practices easily picked up from other farmers
and is concentrated almost entirely on paddy product.Lon. Emerging problems have
been overuse of nitrogen fertilizer leading to large losses from brown plant
hopper, imbalance in the use of nitrogen, phosphate and potassium, overuse and
incorrect handling of pesticides, common occurrence of easily preventable animal
diseases, renewed use of non-resistant varieties, poor product quality, and market
risk among others. The extension program is structured around solving these and
related problems.
5.          Extension Methodologa. Survey data indicated that only about 5t-lOt
of farmers receive extension advice directly with contact with other farmers being
the main method of technology transfer. Each field level extension agent is
responsible for about two villages or 1,600 - 2,000 farm households. Regular
meetings are held with progressive farmers and with groups of farmers. Special
surveys are made from time to time to establish a census of farmer concerns and
results are aggregated at province level where they become a major factor in
determining program content. Demonstration plots are established based on the
program and generally sited on contact farmer land. Field days are held regularly
to review the impact of the technology being promoted. Field workers meet
regularly with supervisors and subject matter specialists. Technical workshops at
the provincial level form the main linkage with research and other services.
International assistance is being provided (IRDC) to establish a National Farming
Systems Research Network to coordinate research and to integrate research and
extension into a system that focuses on the farm household rather than on specific
crops. Under the project, this system would be continued as the first stage of
development of an effective and modern extension service. This approach allows
retention of more flexibility than that of more intensive systems. It is expected
that any one system would not be appropriate for the whole country because of the
great differences in conditions between north and south, between mountainous and
deltaic regions and between ethnic groups. Multilatral and bilateral programs are
being implemented looking at alternativ extension approaches. The approach being
adopted by the project is flexible enough to allow full use of these experiences
which would be incorporated into preparation of a second stage extension project.
6.          Extension Issue. The overriding issue in extension that must be
addressed as a matter of urgency is that of adequate budgetary support. While in
theory the unitary budget system for Viet Nam should guarantee full funding or at
least equal treatment, in practice this is not the case. The extension system is
chronically underfunded with a large degree of provincial variation depending on
availability of local resources. A common occurrence is for less than one-third
of fixed costs, including salaries, to be met from all funding sources with
virtually no funding of operational expenses. This has a major negative impact on
staff motivation and must be resolved if the current generally low effectiveness
of the extension effort is to be improved. An unmotivated extension staff renders
moot all considerations of appropriate methodology. Underfunding is not



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
cost-effective and full consideration will be required of the budgetary
implications of the project proposals, both during and after the project
implementation period.
Plant Protection
7.          Orzanization. The Plant Protection Departmpnt (PPD) comes under the
Division of Management of MAFI and is responsible for plant protection, plant
quarantine,  registration and quality control  of plant pesticides.    Planc
protection research is carried out by the Plant Protection Research Institute
under the Research and Training Division of MAFI. The Department is responsible
for monitoring pest and disease incidence, providing early warning of potential
outbreaks, maintaining records of crop losses, and training and advising farmers
on appropriate prevention and control measures, including integrated pest
management. As for the Extension Service, with which it keeps close liaison, field
level activities are the responsibility of the provincial authorities while
national and regional PPD offices are responsible for policy, planning, budgeting
and other management tasks. The PPD maintains an headquarters staff of about 51
persons and four regional centers with 115 staff total. Each of the country's 53
provinces has a plant protection center with about 35 staff each and maintains
offices at district level. Field work is carried out from the district offices.
S.          District teams work with groups of farmers to identify and monitor
populations of insects and pathogens. Farmers are advised of control measures to
take and are trained in pesticide application procedures to minimize personal
health hazards and pollution effects. Each season, district staff select a number
of representative fields based on variety and planting date. Data are colle'-ted
on incidence of eggs, nymphs, larvae and disease symptoms. The data are analyzed
and centralized for advice on actions to be taken and research stations and others
are notified.
9.          ODgerational Effectiveness. With the recent intensification of rice
growing has come an increased exposure to pests and diseases heightened by the
prevalence of continuous cropping under monoculture and indiscriminate use of
fertilizer. Farmers are .1ow free to choose varieties and have frequently reverted
to using non-resistant varieties which may command a higher market price. The
plant protection service provides a measure of protection but its resources have
not been increased commensurate with increased risk. All levels of staff from
district through province and regional level lack adequate equipment, vehicles and
operational funds for travel, fieldwork, data analysis, communications and other
core functions. This results in partial coverage and a considerable time lag
between field observations, data collection and analysis, and reporting during
which time an infestation occurrence may overtake the early warning system
designed to predict and prevent it. The plant protection system clearly requires
a minimum of resources to enable staff to do the job properly. Staff need basic
training in modern techniques and further training to keep skills current.
10.         Integrated Pest Manacrement. As part of a regional trend, MAFI has
shown considerable interest in Integrated Pest Management (IPM) in an effort to
control pests and diseases through use of natural predators and other practices
that lessen dependence on chemical pesticides with their adverse effect on the



- 62 -                               ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
environment including worker health. MAFI staff began field demonstrations of IPM
on rice in 1985 and joined the FAO Regional IPM Programming 1990. Under the FAO
program, MAFI staff were sent to Indonesia to observe IPM in practice there. In
1992, formal training of the first batch of 30 provincial level IPM supervisors
began with courses in IPM field techniques, training of field enumerators, methods
of farmer communication and other ielevant skills. Upon returning to their
provinces, the trainees initiated IPM pilot trials enlisting farmer groups. Pairs
of fields were selected from which one of each pair received traditional chemical
pest control while the other was managed by IPM methods. Observation trials wore
set out to allow farmers to measure the effect of different fertilizer treatments
on pest incidence and yields, simulation of pest damage at different growth stages
and its impact on yield, and other variables. Farmers and field enumerators were
taught to identify pests and their predators as eggs, larvae, nymphs and adults;
how to count and record their incidence, assessment of crop damage, measurement
of economic thresholds at which spraying should be considered and rice ecosystem
analysis. Surveys were carried out to assess the spraying practices commonly in
use with respact to number of times farmers used pesticides,  the types of
pesticieez nr'ed, safety measures taken or not taken, and other factors.
11.         weekly meetings were held with trainers and farmer groups to discuss
the significance of the week's findings and to derive recommendations for the
following week's field work. At the conclusion of the pilot trials, yields, costs
and benefits of the IPM and the traditional pesticide control methods were
compared and discussed. The IPM system resulted in higher net returns to growers,
with fewer problems and avoidance of hazards associated with spraying. Farmers
were enthusiastic and closely identified with the activities of pest
identification, monitoring and decision making on control methods to be used. The
trials demonstrated that crop yields were similar with major cost savings due to
1PM.
12.         The 1993 IPM program consists of expanding coverage to 180 IPM
trainers over three regions. Trainers would work in pairs with 150 farmers being
trained per year per pair giving a total coverage of 13,500 farmers for the year.
The proposals are small in relation to the number of farmers and the benefits to
be obtained but ambitious in terms resources available. The main conctraints to
successful implementation are lack of vehicles for the necessary mobility,
shortage of basic training equipment, and inadequate recurrent cost funding. The
main weaknesses of the program is that it is restricted to a few key pests of the
paddy crop and economic thresholds are not well established. More data and
analysis are needed under a wider range of conditions to provide farmers with
better guidelines on the levels of infestation that can be tolerated under those
circumstances before spraying or other intervention is recommended.  Without
properly established thresholds and tolerances there is a real risk of crop
failure despite vigilant IPM monitoring. Such an occurrence would set the program
back considerably since it depends on farmer confidence to motivate successful
implementation.
13.         Pesticide Regulation and Controls. Pesticide formulation, importation,
and use are controlled by government laws and regulations. The pesticide law was
rewritten based on FAO protocols and passed by the National Assembly on February
4, 1993. In 1992, MAFI updated the list of chemical that are banned, restricted



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6
or permitted. These are reviewed on an ongoing basis and chemicals must be
registered for use. Government policy is for restricted use of chemicals and
legislation is in preparation to promulgate IPM as national policy.
Research
14.         Viet Nam maintains a wide range of agricultural and related research
facilities. There are 33 sectoral research and/or training institutes in the
country with about 700 staff. Of these, about one-half are under the control of
MAFI's Division of Research and Training with the rest being operated by State
Enterprises. All are required to submit research program proposals to MAFI's
Department of Applied Science and Technology which implements policy of the
National Committee for Science and Technology. The main rice research and breeding
institutes are the 0 Mon Rice Research Institute responsible for the Mekong Delta,
the National Agricultural Research Institute and the Food Crops Institute, both
in the north.
15.         Research institutes receive only partial funding through Government
budget. Most are poorly equipped and do not have adequate recurrent cost funding
for research activities, even when approved, In some cases equipment has been
provided by foreign programs but cannot be operated because funds for operation
and maintenance are not available. The agricultural institutes, for example, rely
on sale of improved seed and on research done under contract to provinces and
others to raise revenue. While this has merit in ensuring research is relevant,
very little basic research can be done to form the basis of the next round of
applied research. This also limits the usefulness of much international research
cooperation as facilities for technology transfer and data analysis are not
sufficient and key parts of the research are done outside the country.
16.         In an attempt to concentrate limited resources, two initiatives have
been put into place. A National Farming Systems Research Network has been
established linking nine research institutes and universities (O Mon Rice Research
Institute, Southern Agricultural Research Institute, Cantho University, the
Agro-Forestry University, the High Plateau University, Hue University, Ba Chai
University, Hanoi University, and the National Institute for Agricultural
Science). The objective of the netmork is to coordinate programs and to focus
research on priority needs of farmers in the main ecological zones. The basic
research program is linked to the Extension Department program and is derived from
multi-discipline surveys of farm households using the Rapid Rural Appraisal
method. Under this approach, a team takes an inventory of the resources available
to a village, the activities in which villagers are engaged, the population size,
growth rate, and characteristics and other relevant details. The data are
processed and reviewed with villagers and their opinions are canvassed in a
problem-solving manner. From this process, an agenda is drawn up integrating
research, extension and other services.
17.         The second initiative has been the formation of the Science and
Technology Committee to screen research proposals. The Committee is composed of
distinguished scientists and meets twice a year. The first meeting is to consider
and approve the annual research program while the second is to evaluate progress
and to approve technology for field use. In practice, the number of approved



- 64-                                 ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 6
priority programs exceeds the funding available and duplication of research work
continues, basically concentrating on the same set of low cost trials and
analyses.
18.         In spite of these limitations, Viet Nam has maintained a reasonable
varietal base, active breeding programs and a range of suitable technology
packages for most field crops. In fact, there is still a substantial gap between
farm yields and those on demonstration plots indicating that there is sufficient
known technology to sustain good growch rates in production for the short to
medium term. The greatest need is to strengthen research into resistant varieties
and into biological pest control, development of better seed production techniques
for improved varieties, and into development of hybrid rice.



- 65 -                               Annex 6
Page 1 of 11
VIET NAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
THE VIET NAM BANK FOR AGRICULTURE
A. Objectives and Legal Framework
1.        The Viet Nam Bank  for Agriculture  (VBA)  is a Government-owned
financial institution and occupies a unique position in the Vietnamese bankina
system as it is the only one able to reach the entire rural sector thanks to its
broad network of regional offices (5), provincial branches (51), district
branches (405) and sub-district outlets (290). Set up initially by the State
Bank in 1988 as the Bank for Agricultural Development and then restructured in
1990 in its present form, VBA's mission has been enhanced by the highest priority
being given to smallholder agricultural development from 1991.
2.        VBA's present establishment results from Government's Decision No. 400
dated November 14, 1990 which established VBA as a commercial Bank. Its charter
was approved by the State Bank of Viet Nam (SBV) in november 1992 (decision 250
QD). It operates under the Law of Banking, Credit Cooperatives and Finance
Companies issued in 1990. Its operations are supervised by SBV and the Ministry
of Finance.
3.        VBA has the broad objectives of extending short, medium, and long term
credit to private and public agents operating in the rural sector. There is
however no limit to its banking activities and it may compete with other
financial institutions in every sector of the economy, for production, marketing
and foreign activities, import and export.   VBA also has the objective of
mobilizing public and private savings.   It is the only institution able to
mobilize rural savings all over the country through its extensive network.
4.        Until 1990, VBA was mainly an institution distributing short term
credit to State owned Enterprises (SOE) and Cooperatives according to decisions
made by central planning authorities.   It started to distribute credit to
individuals farmers or groups of farmers in mid 1991. Achievements are quite
impressive with the amount of loans increasing from VND369 billion (US$33.5
million) in 1991 to VND2,501 billion (US$236 million) in 1992. Rural lending to
smallholder now represent 35% of total lending against 6.5% only, in 1991.
B. Administration and Oraanization
5.        VBA is managed by a General Manager advised by a Board of 9 Directors.
The general Manager is appointed by Government and is in charge of the overall
management of the Bank and of overseeing its performance. The board of directors
includes senior VBA managers, representatives from SBV, the Ministry of Finance,
and the State Planning Committee. Directors are appointed by the Governor of SBV
on the proposal of VBA General Manager. The Board has advisory functions in term
of planning, policy making, budget approval, overall supervision and evaluation



- 66 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 11
of performance. An internal audit department reports to the Board, SBV and the
Ministry of Finance on a regular basis and controls internal procedures. No
independent private auditor has been appointed yet. however, SBV has audited VBA
accounts and performance in 1992.
6.        VBA's credit is extended from its headquarters office in Hanoi, 5
Regional Branches, 51 provincial Branches, 405 and 290 district and sub-district
branches. Is a pyramidal organization, each level reporting to the immediate
level above through weekly and monthly reports.  In Hanoi, VBA services are
grouped in 4 sections which supervise 16 departments. Two departments reports
directly to the General manager: Internal Audit and Inspection Department and
General Secretary and Legal Department. Lending and banking activities are under
an operations section with four departments: Rural Lending for smallholders,
Universal Banking for emerging private sector and Domestic business for SOE. A
forth department deals with foreign exchange transactions. There are three other
sections dealing with finance and accounting, administration, and support
services (planning, training, personnel, external relations).
7.        The five regional branches (set up in 1992) report directly to the
General Manager and also have distinct services per type of lending activities.
Provincial branches now report to the regional branches.  Each branch keeps
autonomous accounts consolidated at the higher level of hierarchy. Accounting
at district level is still done manually. At provincial level and above, VBA
uses personal computers and software internally developed. The system is new and
said to be not yet fully satisfactory. A draft master plan of data processing
equipment and software needs is being drafted with the help of "Credit Agricole"
of France.
8.        Staffina and Trainina.  At the end of 1992, VBA staff numbered 22,791
of which 596 were managers. There are 197 staff at headquarters in Hanoi and 774
in the 5 regional offices. The balance are in provincial and district branches
( 96% of total). About 6,000 agents were laid off during the last two years.
Staff productivity is still relatively low, about 100 loans per staff member end
1992. VBA's staff includes 4,120 agents with university degree, 13,165 with a
college degree and 6,841 with secondary education.   Most of the staff need
retraining to adjust to new commercial objectives of VBA. Training facilities
do not   exist yet  (the training division has a staff of 6).   VBA senior
Management recognizes that training together with the establishment of
appropriate lending procedures are urgent priorities. Since 1990, VBA has
obtained the support of a Dutch-financed training project.   In 1993, French
technical assistance has been also secured in the framework of a national
training plan for banking staff initiated by SBV. Preparation and implementation
of training programs in various activities (lending procedures, recoveries,
accounting, computer systems, banking activities) has started and the proposed
project-related training program is under preparation.
C. Lending Policies and Procedures
9.        VBA's objective is to provide maximum access to short term credit by
smallholders. It has developed simple lending procedures and adapted credit



- 67 -                              Annex 6
Page 3 of 11
norms to regional agro-economic conditions and farmrrs income, following
instructions given by Government in June 1991.
10.       VBA may lend to: (i) individuals farmers (head of household);  (ii)
farmers associations; and (iii) Intermediate Economic Financial Agencies
(production cooperatives, shareholder Banks, Credit cooperatives).
-  Individual farmers directly involved in production activities should
have a permanent resident registration and land right .tilization
certificate (for land and constructions on it) supported by a
certificate registered at the nearest commune/district people's
committee. More than 80% of land previously owned by Government has
been redistributed in the last three years. These certificates do not
give full property rights to the land user, but guarantee the farmer
that he or his estate could cultivate his land permanently. Landless
farmers may obtain VBA loans by voluntary joining joint-liability
groups recognized by commune/district People's Committees.
-  Intermediate Economic Financial Institutions  (IEFI) must be also
recognized and registered at the commune/district People's Committee.
Shareholder Banks are set up either like mutual funds among private
partners (including farmers) or by private investors willing to enter
tue banking business. IEFI's on-lend VBA funds to farmers and take
the credit risk. They are paid a fee of 10t of interest due to VBA
when the loans are settled.
11.       VBA is making efforts to find the best ways to reach the maximum of
farmers while reducing its operating costs. To reduce its credit risk, VBA is
active in the promotion of farmer's joint liability groups. VBA also lends to
input supplying agencies and has organized tripartite arrangements by which the
farmer receives a purchase voucher when asking for credit from VBA. That voucher
allows him to get the inputs needed from a supplying agency and his account at
VBA is charged accordingly and the supply agency's account is credited
simultaneously.
12.       Credit documentation consists of:  (i) a loan application; (ii) an
appraisal form; (iii) a collateral assets declaration or the certificate of
credibility issued by People's Committee; and (iv) a loan contract.
-  Loan applications include all relevant information about the borrower,
his family and holdings (land size and location, construction, farm
equipment, livestock, production and yields). It details the purpose
for which the credit is asked and its content  (input).   Loan
applications by IEFI should also contain detailed information on whom
VBA's loans should be on-lent. V2A staff or auxiliary village credit
assistants may help the farmer to fill these loans applications.
-  The appraisal form is prepared by the local VBA Credit Unit consisting
of a credit officer, one accountant and a book-keeper/cashier. This
form determines the amount to be lent taking into account farmer's
assets, and farmer's total revenue (from farming and non farming
activities). VBA may lend up to 50% of total assets and up to 100%



- 68 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 11
of expected income.   Practically, loans are limited to 70% of the
proposed short term investment or 50% of medium term investment.
Ability to properly appraise medium/long term loan applications is
still doubtful and special training will have to be organized/provided
to secure that function.
- The loan contract specifies terms and conditions of the loan including
interest charged, repayment schedule and guarantees provided.
13.       The Commune/sub district VBA chief may grant individual loans up to
VND1 million (US$90). Loans up to VND10 million (US$900) may be authorized by
district officers. Above the limits, all loans should be approved at provincial
level.  VBA success in developing short term lending is largely due to that
decentralized approach.
14.       VBA Interest Rates.  SBV fixes norms to all financial institutions.
Average VBA on-lending rates are derived from these guidelines.   VBA has
flexibility to adjust them to take into account its operating cost and estimation
of credit risk taken. Interest rates have been reduced recently as inflation is
receding. They are at least equivalent to those traded at the interbank money
market recently opened.  Presently, the rates Per month are as follow (July
1993):
VBA          Interbank
rates
Short term loans (Three to 12 months)
For Production                                    2.1
For trade, marketing                              2.3             2.3
Medium term loans (up to three years)
For on farm investments                           1.5
SVB rediscounting rate average                       .9
D. Lending Operations
15.       Lending statistics available for 1991 and 1992 show a decrease in the
total amount lent by VBA, but this reflects a sharp reduction of lending to
public enterprises being restructured and privatized. On the other hand, lending
to smallholders and private sector increased tremendously from 5% to 35 of to al
lending.



- 69 -
Ann-ex 6
Page 5 of 11
Table 4.1: 1991 and 1992 (VND billion) VBA Lending
1991                   1992
Short term lending:
Agricultural production            1,971           25         792          11
Input supply                           -            -         896          12
Food marketing                     2,423           31       1,801          25
Agro-industry                         68            1         716          10
Forestry                       198           2          226          3
Aquaculture, fisheries                 -            -           -           -
Salt production                       72            1         922          13
Tourism and services               1,481           19       1,588          22
other/unidentified                 1,654           21         240           3
Total                        7,857          99        7,181         99
Medium term loans:                    26            1          43           1
Total                        7,883         100        7,224        100
of which:
Rural credit:                        369.7          5       2,500.9        35
Short term
Agriculture and forestry       156        1734
Fisheries and salt                          33          221
Trade                           27         182
Other                           42         286
Medium term:
Agriculture                      8           56
Fisheries and salt               1           7
Trade                             .9         6
Other                            2.1          9
Public enterprises                 7,513.3         95       4,723.1        65
During the first six months of 1993, rural lending amounted to VND2,496 billion,
as much as lent the previous 12 months.
16.       Lending to public enterprises still represent 65% of total lending.
End 1992, there were 2,344 public (central and regional) enterprises active
accounts at VBA. In addition there are 3,048 SOB accounts being frozen for SOB
being liquidated. At the end of june 1993, Government would have restructured
1424 SOE and decisions are expected from government before end 1994 for 920 other
SOE.



- 70 -
Annex 6
Page 6 of 11
17.       Rural Credit Coverace.  At the end of 1992, VBA maintained 966,972
rural customers accounts, about 9.3% of the 10.3 million rural households
surveyed in Viet Nam. Since 1991, there were 2,676,000 short term loans made to
smallholders with a maturity varying from 3 to six months. Average loan amount
is very small but increasing from about VND0.5 million in 1991 to about VND1.2
million in 1992 (respectively US$60 and US$110).   Statistics per region or
provinces on loan distribution and amounts are not available.
Recoveries
18.       VBA credit recoveries statistics should be looked at with prudence as
VBA Headquarters does not maintain statistics of loan rescheduling which are
known to be important, mainly for SOE. Loan rescheduling decisions are taken at
provincial or regional level (and said not to be reported at higher levels).
Also, VBA policy is to recover principal outstanding before interest when total
outstanding is not recovered in time. Total overdue loans and interest due end
1992 amounted to VND805.7 and 378.6 billion respectively. Unpaid interest due
(US$35.5 million) represented 40% of interest actually cashed in 1992. Out of
the previous amounts, VBA has identified VND606 billion (US$57.1 million) of
loans made before VBA reorganization as a Commercial Bank to SOE for which
recovery is dubious. These loans are fully refinanced by special Government/SBV
contribution. It is nevertheless recommended that these loans be removed from
VBA accounts and transferred back to the State Bank. There are also VND154.7
billion (US$14.6 million) arrears due from public institutions.
19.       Actual recovery rates on rural loans seem to be much higher, between
95% and 96% of outstanding loans.
Table 4.2: Portfolio and Arrears
(Billion VND)
June
1991          1992        1993
Short term                          2,714.0       3,334.0      4,485
Medium/long term                      132.6         144.0        441
Sub total                           2,846.6       3,478.0      4,926
Public loans in suspense               613.0         606.0        551
Total loan portfolio                    3.459.6      4,084.7       5,477
of which: Rural lending portfolio
Unmatured loans                         351.       1,415.0      2,509
Arrears                                 NA            86.4         110
20.       The table below indicates 1992 outstanding loans and arrears as
recorded by the rural lending department.



- 71 -
Annex 6
Page 7 of 11
Table 4.3: VBA Rural Lending Recovery Rates (1992)
(Billion Dong)
End 1992          Arrears          %
portfolio
Direct lending
Agriculture                        663.0              9.90        1.5
Fisheries,aquaculture               88.0               .97        1.1
Services                            66.0             2.30         3.5
Small traders                       79.0              1.80        2.3
Other                               34.0              2.00        5.6
Loans through  IEFI                      55.0             25.00        9.1
Loans through mutual funds               79.0              2.00        2.5
Loans at negotiated interest            302.0             60.00       19.9
rates
Counterpart EEC funding on-lent          55.0              1.70        3.1
Other                                     9.8              0.70        7.1
Total rural lending portfolio          1430.8             86.40        6.0
Total lending (1991 and 1992)          1680.7             86.40        5.9
Total lending (six months 1993)        2496.0            110.00        6.0
An explanation of the low recovery rate of loans made through the IEFIs is
needed.
E. Financial Situation and Performance
21.       Financial Condition.  As of december 1992, VBA's total balance sheet
amounted to VND4,826.6  billion  (US$455 million).    Tables  4.4  shows  the
distribution of VBA's resources (liabilities) and assets for the last three years
1990 to 1992. VEA's detailed financial statements are attached.



- 72 -
Annex 6
Page 8 of 11
Table 4.4: VBA Resources and Assets End 1992
(in VND billion)
Resources                           1990          1991           1992
Short Term Resources
Deposits                           1,104.0       1,449.0        2,131.0
State Bank                           984.0       1,782.0        1,457.0
Other Banks                                                        50.0
Sub total                     2.088.0       3,231.0        3.638.0
Agents and trust services -                         10.            53.0
Other creditors                      137.9         443.6          305.9
Government funding                   297.0.        280.0          637.0
Sub total liabilities         2,522.9       3,964.6        4,633.9
Ecsuity Funds
Share Capital                         40.0          40.0          200.0
Government assets                      91.0          99.0          144.0
Reserves                              29.0          27.1           35.9
Profit of the year                     36.0        -82.4          -43.5
Sub total                        196.0          83.7.         336.4
Total resources                    2,718.9       4,048.3        4,970.3
Assets
Licruid Assets                       692.4         345.2          556.61/
Receivable                             55.9        110.6           82.4
Short term loans                   1,436.4       2,723.0        3,393.5
sub total short term assets        2,184.7       3.178.8        4,032.5
Medium Term Loans                     106.4        132.6          144.0
Public loans in suspense             324.4         613.0          606.0
Net Fixed Assets                      103.4        120.0          184.9
Financial investments                                3.9            2.9
Total assets                       2,718.9       4,048.3        4,970.3
1/ of which VND212.9 billion are reserve funds with SBV.



- 73 -
Annex 6
Page 9 of 11
22.       Deposits.  The relative share of deposits in VBA's total resources now
exceeds 48% of total resources.  Private deposits share now represent 70% of
total deposits.   They are expensive as sight and medium terms deposits are
remunerated at more than 1% a month.  Core deposits are primarily those repayable
on demand (sight deposits), and are collected mostly by VBA's major branches (of
which southern region under HCM regional office VND400.1 billion).   To be
successful in attracting significant amounts of private deposits and savings, VBA
will have to:
(a)    consider the generation of deposits as a major objective;
(b)    improve the physical aspect of its branch network;
(c)    diversify and promote the financial  instruments available to
depositors and savers; and
(d)    train  its personnel  in the promotion and administration  of
competitive banking activities.
Loan Portfolio Ouality
23.       Collection performance and appropriate provisions are good indicators
of loan portfolio quality. While the portfolio reflecting rural lending seems
sound (except lending through IEFIs), serious doubts exist on the quality of
public sector portfolio. VBA has made a sound decision to identify in special
accounts loans to State Enterprises being either dismantled or in serious
financial situation (VND606 billion or US$57.2 million). Most of the arrears
(VND154.7 billion) also concern State Enterprises. Altogether, arrears represent
20.5% of risk assets, a very high percentage for a Bank which mostly lends for
short term period.
24.       VBA should determine its credit risks precisely and develop procedures
to calculate adequate provisions, a practice not yet started.  This approach
would necessitate a systematic loan evaluation and classification system for all
loans above a certain amount to single borrowers or related entities.  Each
borrower should be reviewed, at least annually, on the occurrence of any change
in the credit lines approved or significant change in the borrower's condition.
A standard classification would be applied based on the extent of past dues, if
any, the financial condition of the borrower, the quality of the documentation,
the value of the security held, and the specific loan loss potential identified
for the total outstanding to each financially troubled borrower or related group
of borrowers. This would allow VBA to maintain in its accounts an adequate
level of provision for bad debts that covers 100t of the real risk of default as
determined by analyzing overdue annually.   These steps are essential  to
establishing VBA financial responsibility.
Overall Operating Results and Profitabilitv
25.       VBA's operating results were negative in 1991 and 1992 (no data are
available for previous years prior to VBA's establishment from Bank for
Agricultural Development). VBA's financial status for 1991 and 1992 is presented
in the summary balance sheets, income statements, and flow of funds statements
in  the attached tables.  VBA's net loss in 1992 was VND43.5 billion (US$4.1



- 74 -                               Annex 6
Page 10 of 11
million). VBA's financial performance during this period can be summarized as
follows:
Table 4.5: VBA Financial Performance 1990-1991
(VND Million)
1990    1991         1992
Interest income                     203.8      375.2        957.4
Interest expense                     (92.5)    (313.1)     (789.4)
Financial margin                     111.3      62.1        168.0
Other income                          13.6       1.1          3.1
Financial income                    124.9       63.2        171.1
Staff cost                            21.7      70.7         87.3
Depreciation                           9.4      12.1         16.8
Other expenses                        36.9      47.8         73.6
Operating Expenses                   (68.0)    (130.6)      (177.7)
Taxes                                 20.3      (15.0)      ( 36.4)
Net Profit                            36.6      (82.4)      (43.5)
F. VBA's DeveloDment Obiectives and Strateov
26.       In 1991, the Government of Viet Nam reemphasized the role of VBA in
the development of the country's rural sector. New orientations for VBA include:
(a)  its  transformation  into a  commercial  bank  with  a  qualified  and
responsible Board of Directors, while maintaining its farm credit
specificity;
(b)  expansion of VBA's rural credit operations, to serve a larger number of
farmers, particularly small farmers, diversification of lending and
banking activities to other sub-sectors, including fisheries, agro-
industries, forestry, crafts, and other rural activities; ana
(c)  expansion of rural medium term credit necessary to finance on farm
investments necessary to improve productivity and growth.
(d)  ensure VBA's managerial autonomy and financial viability.
27.       VBA has subsequently defined the following medium-term development
objectives consistent with its charter and with the new orientations outlined
above. VBA's objectives are to:



- 75 -
Annex 6
Page 11 of 11
(a)    assure  the  continuity  of  VBA  by  rational  policies  of  work
organization, staffing, business development, financial viability, and
relations with Government, borrowers, depositors, and financiers;
(b)    improve its future resource position to meet the currently planned
levels of agricultural, commercial and other diversified lending, by
mobilizing demand, time and savings deposits, as well as new external
funds during the Project period;
(c)    develop long-term plans to strengthen and diversify its business base
and its asset and liability structure, and ensure that VBA continues
to have an effective role as the lead bank in the financing of the
agricultural sector;
(d)    pursue the decentralization of its credit and other banking operations
by setting annual objectives at decentralized levels of operations for
the use of funds, deposits and savings, and loan recovery, and
(e)    improve its operational efficiency and productivity by simplifying
management tasks and procedures for some of its banking products,
developing  new  banking  services,  improving  the  processing  and
supervision of loans and operations, and modernizing its management
information and accounting systems (MIS).
28.       To help VBA achieve these objectives assistance is needed to:
(a)    develop a long-term strategic and operational planning system ;
(b)    set up a sound internal organization, to allow for more efficient
planning, budgeting, accounting, risk asset and liability management,
branch network coordination, control function management, and
personnel management; and
(c)    implement a pluri-annual training program for VEA's managers and
staff.
29.       VBA's Lendinca Procrram and Financincr Reguirements (1993-1996).  Based
on Government's objectives and investment priorities and on VBA's own development
and diversification strategy, VBA's total rural lending, is projected to increase
again during the coming years to reach as much as VND15,600 billion (US$1.5
billion) in 1996 with a ratio of short-term to medium-term credit of about 1:100.
Annual growth of rural lending in real terms is expected to be about 40% from
1993 to 1996. Annual growth of public and private enterprises is tentatively
estimated at 10% per year. The resources necessary to finance such a lending
program will primarily come from domestic sources through: (a) the repayment of
outstanding sub-loans; (b) increased deposit mobilization; and (c) SBV
rediscounting facilities. Rediscounting facilities available to VBA from the SBV
and the expected increase in deposits would provide VBA with the resources
necessary to finance its short-lending program. VEA requires long-term resources
to start financing its medium-term lending program, and training efforts.



- 76 -
VIET NAM                            Annex6
Table 1(a)
VIET NAM BANK FOR AGRICULTURE
BALANCE SHEETS
(n Billion dongs)
-- - actual ------    --------- Esmates ---------
ASSETS                                   1990     1991      1992      1993     1994      1995     1996
Exchange rat end of year CVNdongs per US$)
stort term aet
Cash resonves                           88.3     59.7      93.2    104.4      91.3     97.9    114.4
Banks                                    4.0      7.0      18.0     25.5      25.5     25.5      25.5
Free deposits to State Bank            541.7    251A      232.5    352.0    602.0    850.0   1100.0
Compulsory deposis to State Bank        5a4      27.1    212.9    320.0    430.0    500.0    550.0
Sub Totl                                6924      345.2    556.6    601.9   1148.    1473A    1789.9
short term loans
To SOE                                1162.4   2149.0   1803.0   2000.0   2000.0   2000.0   2000.0
To rura households                       9.0    347.0   1355.0   3000.0   3700.0   4300.0   5000.0
To private setor                                                   300.0    800.0   1000.0   1500.0
To other banks                         265.0    218.0    176.0    176.0    176.0    176.0    176.0
Sub Tol Short Term                     1436A    2714.0   3334.0   5476.0   6676.0   7476.0   8676.0
Other receivable                         55.9    110.6      82A       20.9     20.9      20.       20.9
As and trust sevxs                                  9.0     59.5      85.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Sub Total Current Assets               2184.7   3178.8   4032.5   6383.8   7945.7   9070.3  10586.8
MedlumAlong term loans
Rural households                                  7.0     60.0    300.0    600.0    700.0         .0
Public enterprises                    106.4    125.6      84.0    300.0    400.0    400.0    500.0
Priate sector                                                      100.0    200.0    300.0    300.0
Sub Total                             106.4    132.6    144.0    700.0   1200.0   1400.0   1800.0
Govent subsidized credi                 324.4    613.0    606.0    564.6    564.8    564.6    564.6
Other assets
Fixed assets                           128.0    138.0    198.6    228.6    258.6    288.6    318.6
Equipment, imentores                     3.4        6      20.4     20.4      20.4     20.4      20.4
Work In progness                         9.0     15.0      20.9     20.9      20.9     20.9      20.9
Financial Investnents                             3.9       2.9      2.9       2.9      2.9       2.9
Loss depreciation                     -37.0    -39.0    -55.0    -74.8    -96.6   -120.5   -146.9
Sub Totli                              103.4    123.9    187.8    198.0    206.2    212.3    215.9
Total Assets                           2718.9   4048.3   4970.3   786.4   9916.5  11247.2  13167.3
==== ===========================-= ====s
Arreaws
Frozen SOE loans                       324.4      613      606
Public enterprises                               87.2      153
Rura credit                                                 88



- 77 -
VIETNAM                               Annex 
Tabe 1(b)
VIET NAM BANK FOR AGRICULTURE
BALANCE SHEETS
(i Bilron dongs)
------ achea - ---          - ----- Estmates ---------
UAmUTfES                                 1990     1991      1992     1993      1994    105       1906
SHORT TERM
Publi depoeb                           836.0   1087.0   1515.0   2500.0   3200.0   4000.0   4500.0
Ottrdeposm                             265.0    412.0    616.0    700.0   1100.0   1000.0   1000.0
Agent and Uwt meviole                             10.0     53.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Sbbt bank                              94.0    1782.0   1457.0   2309.9   2399.0   2079.0   2630.0
Other Bank                                                 50.0    100.0    100.0    200.0    2QD.0
0ther cradtom                          137.9    443.6    305.9    305.9    305.9    305.9    305.9
Sub Tobt                              2225.9   3684.8   3096.9   6015.8   7204.9   76849    8744.
MEDIUM/L.ONG TERM FLUNDING
Long tem bonds                                                                         100.0    200.0
Stat bank                                                           787.0    787.0    787.0    707.0
Foreign oans                                                                 500.0    800.0   1000.0
0.0      0.0       0.0    787.0   1267.0   1687.0   1907.0
PROVISIONS
ovemmrient funds                       297.0    280.0    637.0    637.0    637.0    637.0    637.0
Credit ds_                                                          33.6    178.0    3390       586.
297.0    280.0    637.0    670.6    815.0    976.0   1223.6
xed captal                              40.0     40.0    200.0    200.0    384A        5.8    753.2
Govenme nasses                          91.0     99.0    144.0    144.0    144.0    144.0    144.0
Rmives                                  29.0     27.1      35.9     -7.6      29.0      81.2   ISA
Profitof thyear                         36.0   -82A       -43.5     38.8      52.2    105.2    128.3
ub Total                               196.0     83.7    338A      373.0    809.6    899.2   1211.9
TotallabitIes                          2718.9   4048.3   4970.3   7846.4   9916.5  11247.1  13167.3
==-=== ====== ====== ===== ====== ====== uinmmumJ



- 78 -
VIETNAM                             Annex 6
Table 2
VIET NAM BANK FOR AGRICULTURE
INCOME STATEMENT
(bilGion dongs)
------ actual ------    --------- Estimates ---------
1090     1901      1992      1993      1994     195      1996
Income from loans/depouit
loan interess                           109.5    352.2    914.3   1061.9   1545.7   1842.7   2128.7
Depositinterest                                   16.0      30.8      35.1      57-2      87.1    117.0
Joint venture Income                                         0.2       0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4
Bankig Income                                      7.0       6.3      21.0     23.1      25.4      28.0
Other                                      4                  6       10.4      11.4     12.8      13.8
______ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------
Sub Total                               203.8    375.2    957.4   1128.8   1637.9   1968.2   2287.9
Other Income                              13.6       1.1      3.1       3.4       3.8       4.1       4.5
Total income                            217.4    376.3    960.5   1132.2   1641.7   1972.4   2292.5
Cost of funds
On deposits                                      160.3    549.6    562.2    790.9    980.8   1107.3
On borrowIng                             90.5    150.9    222.0    258.7    384.1       420.9    467.1
On foreign transactIons                   0.5                1.5       0.3       0.4      0.4       0.5
Banking commissons                                          15.6      32.6     39.1      48.9      56.3
Otherfinancial cost                       1.5      1.9       0.7       1.0       1.2       1.4      1.7
______ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------
Sub Total                                92.5    313.1    7a9.4    854.8   1215.7   1450.4   1633.0
=________ ------ ------ ------ ------ -----___--
Financial margin                         124.9      63.2    171.1    277.4    426.0    521.9    659.5
Operating cost
salries and social cost                  21.7     70.7      87.3      70.1
Maintenance                               9.5     10.8      15.5      17.4
Stationnary                               3.7      5.1       9.0       9.0
Transport of funds                                           7.0
Communications                            1.8      2.1       2.8       4.0
Travel allowances                         2.5      4.5       6.9       6.0
Training                                   2       2.4       3.5       5.0
Other cot                                17.4     22.9      28.8      35.0
Land Tax                                                     0.1       0.4
______ ------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------
Sub Tota                                 68.0    118.5    160.9    146.9    161.6    177.7    195.5
DeprecIation allowances                    9.4      12.1     16.8      19.8      21.8      24.0     26.4
Provision                                                              33.6    144.4    161.1    247.5
Taxes
Tumovertax (2% as from mid 93)           20.3     15.0      36.4      28.5     32.8      39.4      45.8
Capil tax                                                    0.5      12.0      13.2     14.5      16.0
Sub Total                                20.3     15.0      36.9      40.5      46.0     54.0      61.8
______ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ ------
Total opetating epnses                    88.3    145.6    214.6    240.8    373.8    416.8    531.2
Net_rofI_36.   -82.4-  -43.5-    36       ___6 52   ___2 105.2  1
Not Protit                                38.8    -82.4    -43.5       36.0      52.2    105.2    128.3



- 79 -
VIETNAM                             Annexa 
Table 3
ViET NAM BANK FOR AGRICULTURE
RATIOS
----- actual ------    --------- Estimates ---------
1990     1991      1992     1993      1994      1995     1995
(billon dongs)
Average risk assets                              2667.9   3806.1   5484.8   7683.1   9040.6  10340.6
Average active risk assets                       2199.2   3196.6   4899.3   7118.5   8476.0   9776.0
Average deposits                                 1276.5   1790.0   2665.5   3750.0   4650.0   5250.0
Averagetotal debts                               2955.3   3840.8   5399.9   7647.4   8931.9  10051.9
Average cash/bank reserves                        518.8    450.9    679.3    975.4   1311.1   1831.7
Average equity                                    139.9    210.0    354.7    491.3    754.4   1055.5
Balance sheet ratios
liquidityratio                         0.98      0.86      1.01     1.06      1.10      1.18     1.21
iUquid assets/deposits                 0.63      0.24      0.26     0.25      0.27      0.29     0.33
Equity/risk assets                               0.05      0.06     0.06      0.08      0.08     0.10
debt/equity                                     21.13     18.28    15.22     15.57     11.84     9.52
Provisions/risk assets                           0.00      0.00     0.01      0.02      0.04     0.06
Operation ratios (In %)
Average Interest on active loans                16.01     28.60    22.00     21.71     21.74    21.77
Average Interest on cash assets                  3.08      6.79     5.16      5.87      6.64     7.17
Average total Interest esaned                   13.80     26.25    20.24     20.24     20.11    20.06
Average cost on deposits                        12.56     30.70    21.09     21.09     21.09    21.09
Average cost on borrouing                       10.91     13.50    11.00     11.00     10.86    10.62
Average cost of resources                        9.25     17.51    13.34     13.69     13.71    13.38
Financial margin                                 4.55      8.74     6.90      6.55      6.40     6.68
Operating cost/risk assets                     4.44%     4.23%     2.68%    2.10%     1.97%     1.69%
Taxes on risk assets                            0.56%    0.97%     0.74%    0.60%     0.60%    0.60%
Netreturnonrisk assets                        -3.09%    -1.14%     0.67%    0.68%     1.16%     1.24%
Retum (Cost on average equiW                 -58.92%  -20.71%    10.32%    10.63%    13.94%    12.15%
Growth ratio
Public deposits                                 19.4%    31.6%     39.4%    21.9%     20.0%     11.1%
Other deposits                                 35.0%     33.1%     12.0%    36.4%   -10.0%       0.0%
rural lending                                 3833.3%    299.7%    133.2%   30.3%     16.3%     20.0%
public enterprims lending                       79.3%   -17.0%     21.9%     4.3%      0.0%      4.2%
Private sector                                                             150.0%     S0.0%    38.5%
Tota assets                                    32.8%     18.6%     36.7%    20.9%     11.8%     14.6%
Equity                                                              9.8%    38.8%     32.2%    25.8%



- 80 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 5
VIET NAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
VIET NAM BANK FOR AGRICULTURE - INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
1.        Background.  The Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture  is a State-owned
enterprise (SOE) and was formerly a department of the State Ba-.k of Viet Nam
(SBV) responsible for distributing budget allocations to public enterprises,
communes, and cooperatives in the rural sector according to the State Plan.
During the transition from an SBV department to a separate bank, the VBA has had
various changes in name, institutional objectives, lending procedures, degrees
of autonomy and other attributes. The changes have generally reflected a steady
evolution towards the eventual goal of beaing a self-financing, market responsive
financial intermediary serving the banking needs of the rural areas in a
competitive environment. The most recent development was the new Statute of the
VBA and guidelines for its implementation promulgated under Decision No. 250/QD
of 1992. The objectives and operating principles set out for VBA are generally
consistent with those usually accepted for the commercial banking sector.
However, implementation of the requirements of the Statute lag substantially and
a concerted action for long-term development of VBA's capacity as a banking
institution is urgently required to manage the rapid increase in its savings
mobilization and lending activities. In addition, several external agencies are
offering assistance to VBA on a necessarily ad hoc basis and development plan is
needed to focus resources on a mutually agreed development plan.
2.        Institutional Obiectives.  The institutional objectives for VBA are
quite clear. The 1992 Statute establishes that VBA is a bank operating under the
Decree on Banks, Credit Cooperatives and Finance Companies. VBA is authorized
to offer a full range of banking services at home and abroad.   Its credit
activities are to finance mainly, but not exclusively, rural economic activities
- both farm and non-farm.   The VBA is required to operate under commercial
principles with responsibility for making its own business decisions and to be
self-financing. Annex 6 analyses VBA's performance in meeting these objectives
and identifies specific issues to be addressed. This institutional development
plan (IDP) brings these issues together and sets out actions requ'red and an
implementation schedule to close the gap between performance objectives and
actual achievements over the next five years.
3.        The IDP has been prepared on the basis of VBA's ongoing reforn: program
together with IDA's preliminary review of VBA. Because of the importance of the
issues identified, the remedial actions proposed have been incorporated into the
Agreements to be Reached between Government and IDA (para. 7.2 of the Staff
Appraisal Report).



- 81 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
4.        Institutional Develonment Plan
(i)      Issue 1 - Auditing.  Internal audit reports are technically
unsatisfactory and are received too late to be useful as
effective management tools.  Audits made by SBV cannot be
considered  independent  opinions  Iven  SBV' s  management
involvement with VBA.   The audits made by MOF are not
adequate and no formal audit report is issued. Without a
proper audit a fair picture of VBA is not possible and this
severely limits the utility of strategic planning and
performance management.
(ii)    Action to be Taken.  VBA would contract an external auditor
of recognized international stature to carry out an audit of
its accounts under terms of reference to be agreed with IDA.
In addition to the usual audited accounts report, the audit
would present a baseline review of current practice in VBA,
review and certify - to the extent possible - selected VBA
accounts, calculate accepted performance indicators, and make
recommendations on changes in practices to be made. An audit
in the following year would review the accounts and comment
on progress made in implementing the recommended changes.
Certification  of  VBA's  accounts  would  initially  be
constrained by difficulties in verification and an objective
of the initial audit would be to set up satisfactory
procedures.
(iii)    Taraet Date.  A contract for the initial external audit of
1992 accounts would be entered into within six months of
project effectiveness. The second audit would follow in 1995
with the final audit in 1996. VBA would discuss with IDA the
results and recommendations of the audits within three months
of their issuance and agree with IDA on an implementation
program.
(iv)     Issue 2 - Financial Restructurinq. Following from the audit,
a strategy for financial restructuring would be required
including increase in equity and action on non-performing SOE
debt. By the year 2000, VBA's current strategic plan is to
increase its annual lending to US$3,000 million from about
US$700 million currently. Equity is projected to rise from
the present US$20 million to US$300 over the same period.
Non-performing SOE debt is about the equivalent of three
times current equity.
(v)     Action to be Taken.   Government  (has agreed) to pass on
proceeds of the IDA credit to VEA as contribution to equity
and as the first stage of a plan to recapitalize VBA to
ensure that the ratio of equity to risk assets reaches
normally accepted levels by the end of the institutional
development period.   Growth in lending would need to be



- 82 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
limited by this relationship to equity. VBA would make proper
provision for risk and bad debts. Action would be taken to
write off SOE debt if the enterprise is not likely to be
viable and to reschedule where the enterprise is financially
capable of eventual viability.   Removal of this liability
from VBA's books would be an integral part of financial
restructuring.
(vi)    Target Date.  Government (has agreed) to pass on the relevant
proceeds of the IDA credit as VBA equity.   Following the
audit,   Government  and  VBA  with  the  assistance  of
international expertise acceptable to IDA would develop a
plan to implement financial restructuring along the lines to
be recommended by the audit and would advise IDA of
implementation actions to be taken including disposal of the
SOE debt.
(vii)    Issue 3 - Organization and Structure.  VEA's organizational
configuration is basically appropriate to its mission but
some areas exist wherein responsibilities are imprecisely
defined and have a negative impact on overall performance.
For example, it is not clear whether supervision of lending
is the responsibility of regional or of branch officers.
Similarly, there is confusion between Planning and Treasury
Departments in certain aspects of cash management. The shift
away from SOE lending and general financial restructuring
would have an impact on the geographical distribution of VBA
business activity and may affect the viability of certain
branches of the bank.
(viii)   Action to be Taken.   Precise job descriptions would be
written for senior positions at headquarters, regional,
provincial and branch offices, setting out the duties and
line of reporting.   Assistance would be given under the
technical assistance of the project or under bilateral
programs. These job descriptions would be used to streamline
staffing, improve productivity and review branch office
viability.
(ix)    Target  Date.    A  review  of  branch  viability  and  Job
descriptions would commence in mid-1994, in conjunction with
staff training and development planning.
(x)      Issue 4 - Training and Staffinc.  Staff productivity remains
low with an average of about 100 loans per credit officer.
During 1990 -1992, some 6,000 VBA employees were laid off
leaving 22,791 staff at the end of 1992. VBA's goal is to
reduce staff numbers to a level of 10.000 within 6 years and
to upgrade the salary, entry qualifications and training of
remaining staff. Training is currently being given through
a number of externally aided technical assistance programs.



- 83 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
The difficulty is that these do not fit into an overall
staffing and training plan.   Courses may be ad hoc with
respect to the VEA's needs, overlapping, too short to change
entrenched practices, and given to people who may be let go
or are chosen for the wrong reasons - familiarity with
language of instruction and not with the subject matter.
(xi)    Action to be Taken.  Soon after project effectiveness, VBA to
engage consultants to prepare a detailed staffing analysis
setting out the numbers, job skills and qualifications and
duties of present staff and relating this to the filled and
authorized positions.    The analysis would relate  these
findings to industry comparators and make recommendations for
staffing adjustment taking into consideration requirements
for growth and restructuring of VBA's business volume. On
the basis of the staffing plan, a staff development strategy
would be proposed together with a long-run training program
taking into account that VBA's staffing numbers are to be
markedly reduced within a few years.
(xii)    Tarret Date.   Consultants to be engaged in early 1994 to
begin staff analysis. Implementation of the program to begin
after review and acceptance of recommendations.
'xiii)   Issue 5 - Appraisal.  Lending and Loan Suvervision.   The
composition of yBA's loan portfolio has moved from zero
smallholder credit to 35% of total credit to smallholders in
three  years.    This  requires  major  changes  in  lending
procedures and practices, particularly in project evaluation
and supervision, for individual farmers, farmer groups,
cooperatives and for VBA lending to other financial
organizations.    Similarly,  changes will be required in
lending and supervision practice to SOEs if commercial
principles are to apply.
(xiv)    Action to be Taken.    VBA would prepare and adopt  an
Operations Policy Manual setting policies and procedures to
be followed for subloans under the IDA credit.  The manual,
acceptable to IDA,   would include eligibility criteria,
interest rates, repayment terms, appraisal and supervision
guidance. Training in appraisal and supervision methodology
would be carried out under the staff development program.
(xv)    Tarcet Date.  By January, 1994, consultants would be engaged
by VBA to review the existing Operations Policy Manual and
based on their recommendations, VBA would prepare a new
manual for discussion with IDA.
(xvi)    Issue 6 - operational SuDervision and Manacement Information
Systems. Supervision and control of operations, particularly



- 84 -
Annex 7
Page 5 of 5
by provincial managers, is deficient in the consistent use of
systematic procedures and in timeliness of reporting.
Reporting on key indicators, such as the extent of
rescheduling, frequently reaches intermediate management
levels and is not routinely passed on to headquarters for
either management action or for planning purposes. The 1992
audit of VB3A by the SBV drew particular attention to the need
for VBA to improve its internal controls and to give clear
guidelines for supervision and for prompt reporting.
(xvii)   Action to be Taken.   VBA would prepare and implement a
computerized management information system providing real
time data and analysis to all levels of management.   The
system would be networked to avoid long delays in reporting.
All operational staff would be required to report through
the   system   and   would   receive   adequate   training.
Departmental, regional and branch mangers would be trained in
management action based on interpretation of system-generated
indicators.
(xviii) Target Date. VBA has already begun to develop such a system
with external expert assistance.   In 1994, a pilot phase
would be initiated at head office, in one provincial office
and in one district branch.   A first phase for general
implementation is planned for 1995-1996, to cover head
office, five regional banks, and 52 provincial offices. The
balance of 405 district offices %ould be incorporated into
the network in 1996.



Annexc 8
-85-                           Page I of 13
VIET NAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILiTATION PROJECT
RUBBER PRODUCTION
1.        General.  Rubber was introduced to Viet Nam nearly one hundred years
ago. At the outbreak of the Second World War, total rubber area was about
100,000 ha, of which about 94% was in estates, mostly in the control of large
companies.  The remaining 6% was in smallholdings, defined as less than 40 ha
each. Following the War, the planted aiea was rapidly rehabilitated and, by
the early sixties, rubber production reached d peak of 78,000 tons/year.
Rubber had developed into the country's main agricultural export and Viet Nam
was ranked the world's fifth rubber producer, a significant second tier
producer. The industry was severely ravaged by the war of independence and at
its conclusion in 1975, after years of neglect, the area of rubber in
production had fallen to less than 40,000 ha, producing some 20,000 tons/year.
Since 1976, the Government of Viet Nam (GOV) has restructured the industry and
pursued its vigorous expansion so as to give rubber a significant role in the
country's economy.
2.        Current Rubber Area and Production.  The total area and production
of rubber in Viet Nam in 1992, grouped by region, administration, and maturity
of the plantings is summarized in Table 1. Of the nearly 200,000 ha of
planted rubber, some 195,000 ha (98%) is managed by public enterprises as
State and Provincial owned rubber plantation companies. The public sector
rubber is organized into 17 incorporated state rubber companies (SRCs) with
plantations covering about 177,000 ha (89% of total planted rubber). SRCs
operate semi-autonomously under the coordination of the General Rubber
Corporation (GRC), an entity of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Industries (MAFI). Provincial administrations have responsibility for some 9%
of the remaining area (22,600 ha), while 2t (4,700 ha) is classified as
independent smallholders.
3.        Rubber is grown in three regions of the country, the South East
involving the three provinces of Song Be, Dong Nai and Tay Ninh which are all
adjacent to Ho Chi Minh city, the Highlands region of Gia Lai - Kon Tum and
Dak Lak provinces, and the Central region where rubber is grown in Quang Tri
province. The South East region is by far the most important, accounting in
1992 for about 85% (169,600 ha) of the total rubber area, with only about
26,000 ha (13%) and 4,000 ha (2%) in the Highlands and Central regions
respectively. Total area in production (the mature area) in 1992 was about
116,400 ha (58%) while the total area of immature rubber, that is, rubber not
yet sufficiently grown for tapping and planted mostly in the early to mid-
eighties, is estimated at about 83,300 ha (42%). Of the immature area, some
59,600 ha is in the South East and accounts for about 35% of the total rubber
area of that region. In the Highlands and Central regions, the proportion of
immature rubber amounts to some 76% and 97% respectively of the total rubber
planted, indicative of the emphasis that GOV has given to the expansion of
rubber in these regions and of Viet Nam's potential to become a significant
rubber producing country in the coming decade.



- 86 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 13
Table 1: Total Area And Production Of Rubber In Viet Nam, 1992
Administration
GRC          Provincial           Total
Ha       Tons     Ha     Tons    Ha          Tons
South East Region
Mature               106,797  61,395    3,249   n.a.  110,046
Immature             54,418             5,196           59,614
Sub-Total         161,215             8,445   n.a.  169,660
Central Region
Mature                   112      40        0  n.a.        112
Immature              2,772             1,082            3,854
Sub-Total           2,884             1,082   ".a.    3,966
Hiqhlands Reaion
Mature                 2,168     883    4,054   n.a.    6,222
Immature             10,776             9,034           19,810
Sub-Total          12,944            13,088   n.a.   26,032
All Regions
Mature               109,077  62,318    7,303  5,000  116,380    67,318
Immature             67,966            15,312           83,278
TOTAL                  177.043           22,6154/        199,658
a/ Including 4,714 ha classified as smallholder rubber.
4.        Total national dry rubber production in 1992 was about 67,300 tons
of which some 62,300 tons (93%) was produced by GRC plantations. Average
yield of the exploited area is currently about 715 kg/ha, which is low as
compared to the main producing countries and only about 50% of the average
performance of the estate sectors in leading producing countries.
5.        Future Expansion of Area.  GOV plans call for the growing of some
half a million hectares of rubber, 96% of which would be equally divided
between the South East and Highlands regions (Table 2). Some 71* of the
238,000 ha planned for the South East is already planted; for the Highlands
region, the target of 242,000 ha involves a manyfold increase over the
existing 27,000 ha planted, only 11% of the target. The rubber program for
the Central region is relatively small. The GOV plan will result in a major
shift in the relative importance of administrations as rubber growers. Thus,
the proportion of rubber under GRCs' coordination will fall from the current
89* to about 58% while there will be a compensatory increase in the
involvement of provincial administrations. Whereas some 61% of the total



- 87 -                               Annex 8
Page 3 of 13
Table 2: Total Targeted And Planted Areas Of Rubber
By Region And Administration As Of End-1992
(ha)
Percent
Targeted      Planted         Planted
General Rubber Cornoration
South East                    188,600      161,215              85
Central                         5,000        2,884              58
Highlands                      96,600       12,944              13
GRC Total                   290.200      177.043              61
Provincial
South East                     49,400        8,445              17
Central                        15,000        1,082               7
Highlands                     145,000       13,088               9
Province Total              209.400       22.615              11
Regional
South East                    238,000      169,660              71
Central                        20,000        3,966              20
Highlands                     241,600       26,932              11
Re_ional Total              499.600      199.658              40
planned GRC area is planted, leaving about 113,000 ha for future expansion,
mostly in the Highlands, only 10% of the areas targeted for provincial
administration is planted, leaving 187,000 ha for future expansion.
6.        Rubber Industry Administration.  Up to mid-1990, the rubber industry
was organized by a General Department of Rubber reporting directly to the
Council of Ministers. From that date, the industry was mioved to the Ministry
of Agriculture and Food Industries (MAFI), which in turn reports to the
Council. The main operating body within the industry is the General Rubber
Corporation (GRC), set up in 1975 to administer the nationalized French rubber
plantation companies. In addition to its MAFI linkage, GRC falls under the
administrative purview of Provincial Governments in matters relating to taxes,
and worker emoluments, conditions and amenities.
Agricultural Performance
7.        Rubber Area.  GRC has about 161,200 ha of rubber in the South East
region, including 106,800 ha under exploitation and 54,400 ha of immature
rubber. The tapped rubber consists of about 11,600 ha of old, low yielding
trees more than 30 years old, and often 40-50 years old, and a balance of
about 95,200 ha of younger plantings of less than 30 years old, of which 7,700
ha were planted before 1976. The GRC started a planting program in 1976 and
up to the end of 1992 had planted some 142,000 ha in the South East region.
Only 8% of the total plantings occurred in the 1976-80 period (11,400 ha)



- 88 -                                Annex 8
Page 4 of 13
compared to 49% (69,600 ha) in 1981-85 and 431 (61,000 ha) since 1986.
Planting accelerated from 1982 with assistance of development funds from
COMECON countries. In the South East the peak achievement was in 1984 when
about 22,000 ha was planted while in the other regions, the peak planting
period was in 1986-87. Total program achievements slowed markedly in the last
years of the decade due to budget const.aints. Details of the targeted and
planted areas for each company in the South-east and of the total areas of
annual planting from 1976 for the regions are given in Table 3.
Table 3: GRC: Area Of Rubber By Company And
Areas Planted Since 1976 By Region (ha)
A.   Taraeted and Planted Areas by ComDanv
CompanY             Tarreted          Planted            I Planted
Dong Nai              55,000            51,420                93
Binh Long             20,500            16,415                80
Dau Tieng             30,400            29,261                96
Phu Rieng             28,500            19,453                68
Dong Phy               9,900             8,486                85
Phuoc Hoa             20,000            17,627                88
Loc Ninh               9,400             8,001                85
RRIV                   1,000
Tay Ninh               7,400             6,768                91
Tan Bien               7,500             3,782                50
Total                189.000           161.215                85
B.   Areas Planted by Year and Region
Year       South East        Central        Hiahlands        Total
1976            1,850              -                -        1,850
1977            3,110              -              210        3,320
1978            3,040              -              590        4,630
1979            1,240              -              190        1,430
1980            2,105              -                -        2,105
1981            4,711              -                -        4,711
1982            9,462              -               20        9,482
1983           14,166              -               40       14,206
1984           21,989            110              870       22,969
1985           19,256            200            1,990       21,446
1986           14,725          1,070            2,640      18,435
1987           10,874            650            2,680       14,204
1988            9,210          1,040            1,380      11,630
1989            8,465            241            1,507       10,213
1990            7,811             92            1,668        9,571
1991            5,385              -            1,262        6,647
1992            4,500            160              958        5,618
Total         141,899          3,563           16.005      161,467
8.        Table 4 shows the total areas of mature (t pped) and immature rubber
by company. All companies have rubber in production except for Tan Bien where
planting started in 1983. Thirty eight per cent of the tapped rubber is in



- 89 -                               Annex 8
Page 5 of 13
Dong Nai (40,400 ha). Old plantations predominate in several companies,
particularly Dong Phu, Loc Ninh, and Binh Long. The total area of immature
rubber is 54,400 ha, about one third of the total planted area, which clearly
points to rapidly riLing total production in the next few years. All
companies have at least 20% of their planted area in immature rubber. Largest
areas of immature rubber are in Dong Nai (11,371 ha) and Phuoc Hoa (10,556 ha)
which together have 4OW of the total.
Table 4: Areas By Maturity Of Rubber As Of End-1992
30 Years    Mature up              Immature           Immature
Company     and More    to 30 Years   Total    Rubber    Total  Percent
Dong Nai        4,354       36,055    40,409    11,371   51,420        22
Binh Long       1,836        8,701    10,537      5,878   16,415       35
Dau Tieng       1,166       20,406    21,572      7,689   29,261       26
Phu Rieng         644       11,420    12,064      7,389   19,453       37
Dong Phu        1,233        3,094      4,331     4,155    8,486       48
Phuoc Hoa         475        6,596      7,071    10,556   17,627       61
Loc Ninh        1,290        4,053      5,343     2,658    8,001       32
Tay Ninh          602        4,209      4,811     1,957    6,768       28
Tan Bien            -            -        655     3,127    3,782       82
Total       11,600        95,197   106,797    54,418  161,215        34
9.        Areas by Soil TyVe.  There are two main soil types in the South East
region plantations, viz. red basaltic soils and grey to yellow podzolic soils.
About equal areas of the two types are represented in the plantings.
Distribution of the two soils by plantation company is as follows:
Red Soils                      Grey Soils
Dong Nai (50% of area)         Dong Nai (50% of area)
Binh Long                      Day Tieng
Phu Rieng                      Phuoc Hoa
Dong Phy (except 200 ha)       Dong Phy (200 ha only)
Loc Ninh                       RRIV
Tay Ninh
Tan Bien
The red soils are much more fertile, promoting faster tree growth and
requiring less fertilizer amendments. As a result, the immaturity period
(years from planting to opening for tapping) is lessened and fertilizer is not
normally applied after the trees have entered into tapping. On GRC
plantations, the immature period is normally 7 years on red basaltic soils and
7 years on grey podzolic soils. However, at the present time due to low
levels of agricultural inputs, tree growth has slowed and these periods are
mostly extended by one year or more.



90 -                                  Annex 8
Page 6 of 13
10.       Yields.  Table 5 shows that the average rubber yields of the SRCs in
the South East in 1992 were low, ranging from 429 kg/ha (Phuoc Iloa) to 737
kg/ha (Dong Nai). Apart from the two companies with the lowest yields,
Table 5: GRC: Average Yield Of Rubber In 1992
Company           Kg/ha          Percent Area Aged
30 Years and Above
Dong Nai           737                  10
Binh Long          622                  17
Dau Tieng          606                   5
Phu Rieng          547                   5
Dong Phu           431                  28
Phuoc Hoa          429                   6
Loc Ninh           606                  24
Tay Ninh           675                  12
differences between companies are small and do not reflect the proportion of
old rubber (more than 30 years old) in the plantations. Given the clones
planted and the proven performance of Vietnamese rubber in the pre-war years,
the yield average should be muc.; higher, even up to double. The mediocre
performance is almost certainly due to low levels of agricultural inputs of
herbicides, fertilizers, pesticides and latex flow stimulant.  In plantings of
recent years, the lack of herbicides has resulted in the stifling of tree
growth by severe infestations of lalang grass. Lack of stimulant has left the
older mature plantings without treatment, a loss compounded by the fact that
tapping systems were for the most part not appropriately adjusted. Losses by
pilfering of field production and/or unofficial company sales are almost
certainly contributing factors in the low yield levels.
11.       Total Current and Proiected Production.  Total GRC production of dry
rubber was about 62,300 tons in 1992, representing 93% of national production.
Table 6 shows production by individual companies for the years 1989-1992.
Dong Nai company produced 29,300 tons accounting for 47% of the total. Dau
Tieng company was a distant second with 9,800 tons for the year. The Table
also depicts GRC's projection for 1993-1996. These projections are based on a
yield profile which assumes an average yield of 1,200 kg/ha over a 30 year
life of the trees, a felling rate of old field areas of 1,000 ha/year and
immature rubber entering into tapping in the proportion of 50% at 7 years and
50% at 8 years after planting, regardless of soil type. The profile, however,
is not relevant to many of the areas planted from about 1980, because these
have been adversely affected by the low levels of agricultural inputs and
deteriorating field conditions. However, on these bases, GRC has projected
annual production to increase to 134,000 tons in 1996, as large new areas come
into tapping.



- 91 -                               Annex 8
Page 7 of 13
Table 6: GRC: Actual (1989-92) And Projected (1990-96) Rubb3r Production
('000 tons)
Company            1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
South East Region
Dong Nai         22.6    24.6   27.0   29.3   34.9   39.9   44.7   47.9
Binh Long         6.3     6.3    5.9    6.4    8.1    9.7   11.3   10.2
Dau Tieng         2.3     3.3    5.8    9.8   11.3   16.2   21.2   24.7
Phu Rieng         4.0     4.8    6.0    5.8   10.4   12.7   15.1   17.2
Dong Phu          1.4     1.7    1.9    1.8    3.7    4.6    5.6    6.6
Phuoc Hoa         0.5     0.6    1.3    1.6    2.6    5.2    8.4   11.8
Loc Ninh          3.1     3.3    2.9    3.2    4.3    4.9    5.5    6.0
RRIV              0.2     0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3
Tay Ninh          2.7     2.7    3.4   43.2    3.5    3.8    4.1    4.5
Tan Bien          -       -      -       0.1    0.2    0.3    0.7    0.9
Sub-Total       43.1    47.5   54.4   61.4   79.2   97.6  116.2  130.1
Central Region    0        0      0       0      0.1    0.2    0.3    0.5
Highlands Region  0.3      0.5    0.6    0.9    1.4    2.0    2.9    3.5
Total             43.4    48.0   55.0   62.3   80.7   99.8  120.   134.1
C.  Status of Agricultural Technology in SRCs' Plantations
12.       General.  As a result of severe financial constraints in recent
years, field conditions in the SRCs' plantations are generally very
unsatisfactory. This is particularly so in immature areas where the growth of
young trees is frequently substandard. Weeds, part.cularly lalang grass
(Imperata cylindrical) are rampant over extensive areas, diseases are not well
controlled and there is little attention to tree nutrition. Slow tree growth
will delay tappability of these new rubber areas by one to two years and
yields are likely to be disappointing. In mature areas, there are problems of
disease and little use is made of yield stimulation, even on old trees before
replanting.
13.       Plantincr Materials.  Good quality clones, all of foreign origin,
have long been used in the rubber industry of Viet Nam and the plantations of
GRC are no exception. There is very little genetically unimproved clonal
material or seedlings in the plantations, even in the old areas. The clones
of recent plantings are GT 1, RRIM 600, PB 235 and PR 2551; most emphasis is
given to GT 1 while clone RRIM 600, which suffers a high incidence of
Corticium disease (very prevalent in Viet Nam), is being phased out of the new
1"        RRIM 600 and PR 255 are Class 1 materials of Malaysia's planting
recommendations.



- 92 -                               Annex 8
Page 8 of 13
planting programs.  The most common clones of older plantings, PR 107, GT 1
and PB 86, have all had wide use in most rubber producing countries of Asia.
14.       Planting Methods.  The standard of planting seems generally good and
in most instances, tree stands are complete and uniform.  Exceptions are some
very recent plantings, particularly on grey soils, on Tan Bien, Phuoc Hoa and
Dau Tieng plantations, which are seriously infested with lalang and show
uneven field planting success. Planting density is 555 trees/ha on the grey-
yellow soils and 476 trees/ha on the red basaltic soils, which are within the
normal ranges. Planting materials are prepared in polybag nurseries, but in
place of the general overseas method of raising budded stumps in polybags,
seedlings are grown from germination in the bags for later budgrafting, a
method which usually dilutes the intensity of the selection process of the
most vigorous plants for field planting. In the early years of the post-1975
planting program, seedlings were grown in situ in the field for later
budgrafting but the method was abandoned because of high losses due to the dry
season.
15.       Field Maintenance.  Although the standard of field maintenance in
most older plantings and in some recent plantings is adequate, especially in
the Dong Nai company, the overall standard in new plantings is unsatisfactory.
This poses GRC and the SRCs with great challenges to achieve stands of high
productivity. Field after field is seriously infested with lalang grass to
the extent that in many situations, sheet lalang conditions now prevail.
Inevitably, growth of young rubber has been adversely affected and, without
rehabilitation, yield prospects are not good. This situation is the result of
the severe budgetary constraints of recent years which have affected the
availability of all imported agricultural inputs and in particular, the supply
of herbicides. S!'Cs have been using a herbicide which should be applied in a
two dosage sequence in a high volume of water. SRCs have found it difficult
not only to meet the water requirements of high volume spraying but have also
tried to stretch limited supplies of the chemical by reducing the dosage rate
and number of applications, which lead to less than satisfactory results. The
situation has been exacerbated by the practice of single plowings, which have
cut and scattered the lalang plants. There has been little attempt at
properly managed and scheduled multiple round, interrow plowings with intrarow
manual weedings, preferably in conjunction with the growing of legume cover
crops, despite large plantation labor forces. In many young plantings, the
situation is out of control and urgent remedial spraying with herbicide seems
the best solution to the problem despite the high cost.
16.       Use of Fertilizer.  Immature rubber needs adequate and nutritionally
balanced fertilizer to ensure vigorous growth and early maturity. Very little
fertilizer has been applied to plantations during the last five years.
Normally, all young plantings up to the time of tapping (about 7 years) would
receive two applications per year of urea, phosphate and potash at dosage
rates related to the age of the plants. Over the full immaturity period, the
average annual rate of application would be about 250 kg/ha of urea, 230 kg/ha
of rock phosphate (apatite) and 30 kg/ha of potash. Due to the strongly
competitive growth of lalang, the benefits of past intermittent and inadequate
fertilizer programs on the growth of the young rubber stands have probably
been minimal, as evidenced by poor trunk size in many areas. Tree foliage is
also often less than its normal glossy green. Lalang, on the other hand, has



- 93 -                                Annex 8
Page 9 of 13
almost certainly benefitted. For mature (tapped) trees, the recommendations
of the Research Institute of Vietnam for the first 5-8 years of tapping on
grey/podzolic soils, subject to the findings of foliar analysis, are about 175
kg/ha of urea, 225 kg/ha of apatite and 135 kg/ha of potash annually. There
are no firm recommendations for the red basaltic soils. After 12 to 15 years
of age, the response to fertilizers on all soil types remains debatable.
17.       Diseases.  There are three common diseases of rubber in the South-
East region: Phythophthora (black stripe) of the tapping panel, Corticium
(pink disease) of the branches ana powdery mildew (Oidium) of new leaves at
refoliation. Leaf spot disease (Glecesporium) of nursery plants in the wet
season is also destructive. As with herbicides and fertilizers, the meager
budgets of the last few years cut off adequate supplies of fungicides, forcing
a drastic curtailment of disease control programs with some disastrous
results. Now there are widespread infestations of pink and black stripe
diseases, with pink disease being particularly devastating at Phu Rieng. and
clone GTI, which is generally regarded as tolerant to the disease, is affected
to epidemic proportions. Control of the diseases has been further aggravated
by using earlier generation, less effective chemicals than those more recently
brought to the market. Thus, antimycin, a mercury-based fungicide, is still
used for the treatment of Black Stripe panel disease and copper bordeaux
remains the treatment for Pink disease. In using the latter chemical, there
is a loss of production as trees should be taken out of tapping for a month
during treatment to prevent copper contamination of latex. With the newer
chemicals, it is not necessary to take trees out of tapping during treatment.
18.       TapDpinQ.  Current tapping systems are alternate and third/fourth
daily tapping on half spiral, depending on the age of the trees. The first
system is satisfactory given the surplus labor situation. The latter system
applied mostly to older trees, is only used to a small extent in conjunction
with the application of latex stimulant and thus there is a considerable loss
of potential yield. Tapping ceases in some areas during the extended dry
season to avoid tree exhaustion. Tapping standards are generally good.
Tapping knives in some instances, however, seem to be unduly heavy and
cumbersome, while tapping utensils are often in poor repair or are makeshift
because of supply conditions. Opening of trees for tapping follows normal
industry standards but the norm of 400 trees per tapping task (trees per
tapper per day) against about 500-600 in other countries, is low.
19.       Budgetary constraints have prevented companies from implementing an
adequate yield stimulation program. Limited supplies have been used on trees
in tapping for at least 15 years. No supplies have been available for the
extensive areas of old rubber with good bark reserves and potential for good
production responses. RRIV recommends moderate levels of stimulation with
ethepon, popularly known as ethrel, starting from the fifth year of tapping.
The recommended rate of application at this stage is a concentration of 1.25%
applied four times per year. From year 15 of tapping, the concentration
increases to 2.5% and the frequency to 6 times per year. Trees in the years
immediately before felling (after 30 years) can be more strongly stimulated.
As with herbicides and fungicides, the effectiveness of the limited stimulant
available has been comprised by its use at below the optimum dosage rate and
frequency. In addition, the quality of the stimulant, obtained from COMECON
sources, is reported as questionable.



Annex 8
- 94                          Page 10 of 13
D.  Acgricultural Rehabilitation Procram
20.       The proposed project would rehabilitate the plantations of the nine
state rubber companies operating in the South East region, which cover a total
area of 161,215 ha (see Appendix 1). The project would supply the needed
agricultural inputs, including herbicides, fertilizers, fungicides and yield
stimulant (see Appendix 2), and would finance the costs of labor for their
application to immature areas, and provide for agricultural equipment.
E. Rubber Processincr Factories
21.       Factory Capacitv.  The State Rubber Companies operate 13 rubber
processing factories in the South East region with a total capacity of about
81,500 tons/year. GRC also has two sma'l factories in the Highlands region
able to process a total of about 3,000 tons/year. All the companies except
Tan Bien have processing facilities. Dong Nai and Tay Ninh are the only
companies to have more than one facility, with respectively four and two
factories. Table 7 details the rubber processing capacity of the companies
in 1992.
Table 7: Rubber Processing Capacity in 1992
No. of        Crumb         Sheet          Latex
Company             Factories      Rubber        Rubber         Conc.      Total
South East Reguion
Dong Nai             4                                                 35,000
An Loc           1           10,000
Cam My           1           10,000
Dau Gay          1            7,000
Hang Gon         1            8,000
Binh Long            1           9,000                        1,000   10,000
Dau Tieng            1          12,000         1,500                   13,500
Phu Rieng            1           7,500                                  7,500
Dong Phu             1           3,000                                  3,000
Phuoc Hoa            1           3,500                                  3,500
Loc Ninh             1           4,500         1,500                    6,000
Vien (RRIV)          1           1,500                                  1,500
Tay Ninh            2                                                   5,500
Ven Ven            1           3,000
Ben Gui           1            2,500
Total      13           81.500        3,000           1.000   85.500
Highland Region        2           3,000                                  1,000
Quang Tri              1             500                                    500



- 95 -                                 Annex 8
Page 11 of 13
22.       Factory Conditions.  Most of the factories are in poor condition and
struggle tc process to the level of their rated capacity. Equipment is either
very old, mostly predating World War II, or, as frequently the case with
creepers, dryers and presses, of poor quality local manufacture with
breakdowns common. Other common problems are malfunctioning granulators with
hammermills, presses unable to deliver the required pressure for rubber
baling, generators out of action, insufficient clean water (from underground
supplies) resulting in frequent use of surface sources wh;ch are often very
dirty particularly in the rainy season, inadequate latex filtering equipment
and the lack of safety features on machine, particularly creepers. There is
also little attention to effluent treatment, with most fac"iory waste merely
drained into nearby fields but away from building sites. Generally, factory
developments which are well established in other rubber producing courtries
have not reached Vietnam, while spare parts for existing machineries are not
only available, increasing the difficulty of keeping the factories in running
condition.
23.       Rubber Grades.  All c,mpanies report a consistently and unexpectedly
high 80t of field ccllection as latex. The absence of yield stimulation would
favor fairly low percentages of cup lump and scrap grades from the field, but
an intervening factor may be company losses of lower grades by pilferage or
unofficial sales. The bulk of the raw rubber is processed into crumb (87% in
1992) with the balance going into sheet, crepe and latex concentrate for the
local market. According to GRC, no less than 86% of the total production is
processed into top international grades and less than 3% into the lowest
grades. However, the mission is very uncertain of this high proportion of top
quality production. Most of the rubber product does not meet intentional
technical standards and can only be sold at discount prices on the open
market. However, the revenue lost by GRC as a result of poor product quality
is masked by the fact that most production is sold at a fixed prices to
COMECON countries with little regard to quality, and as a result, with a
declared price penalty. Further, poor factory conditions, general state of
disrepair of processing machinery, generally dirty conditions and often poor
presentation of the processed product would mitigate against an output of top
grade materials as claimed.
24.       Processing Canacitv.  The current total processing capacity of about
85,500 tons/year is sufficient to cope with current production but will soon
be inadequate as large new areas are brought into tapping over the next few
years. Table 8 shows processing capacity by factory against projected rubber
production of each of the companies for the next five years up to 1998.
Additional capacity from joint venture installations are not included in the
estimates. There would be a net overall processing under-capacity from 1994,
amounting in that year to some 12,000 tons; thereafter, under-capacity would
become increasingly severe in successive years. By 1996, the deficit could
total some 50,000 tons, with gaps of 13,000 tons/year at Dong Nai company,
11,000 tons at Dau Tieng, and 8-9,000 tons/year at both Phu Rieng and Phuc
Hoa. Commissioning of about 15,000 tons of new capacity per year from 1994
seems imperative. GRC is well aware of the deteriorating situation.



- 96 -                                 Annex 8
Page 12 of 13
Table 8: Adequacy Of Existing Factories For Projected 1990-95 Crop
(tons dry rubber)
Existing
Factory    Projected Production above/(below) Factory Capacity a!
Company      Capacity   1993    1994        1995        1996       1997       1998
Dong Nai      35,000      (145)   4,917     9,638      12,956    16,210   19,285
Binh Long    10,000   (1,872)   (322)       1,260         200      1,053    1,980
Dau Tieng    13,500   (1,615)   2,664       7,704      11,189    14,648   17,391
Phu Rieng      7,500    2,933    5,227      7,621       9,688    11,566   13,298
Dong Phu       3,000      751    1,606      2,620       3,717      4,540    5,490
Phuoc Hoa      3,500      (903)   1,671     4,928       8,314    10,876   12,633
Loc Ninh       6,000   (1,670)  (1,112)       (499)        28        745    1,283
Vien (RRIV)   1,500   (1,275)  (1,237)   (1,203)    (1,168)   (1,123)  (1,076)
Tay Ninh       5,500   (2,043)  (1,695)   (1,430)        (983)      (562)      300
Tan Bien           0      118       274       438         829      1,260    1,962
Total       85,5C0  (5,721)  11.993       31,077    44,770    59,123   72,546
a/ without the project
F. Rubber Research Institute
25.           The Rubber Research Institute of Vietnam (RRIV), formerly the
Institut de Recherche sur Caoutchouc au Vietnam (IRCV) and sometime also knows
as IRRV, is located at Laike, about 60 km from HCM City. Apart from the
central complex of laboratories, offices, pilot processing factory (1,500
tons/year) and staff housing, the Institute has an adjoining rubber
plantation. This plantation is about 1,500 ha of which 410 ha is planted with
rubber out of a total of about 1,000 ha with rubber growing potential. Some
150 ha of old rubber remains to be replanted. GRC has the overall
responsibility for the operation and management of the Institute and provides
its budget. The Institute does not retain proceeds from the sale of its
rubber production for its own needs. From 1983 to 1987, the RRIV benefitted
from a UNDP/FAO project supporting its research program. Funds were used for
the supply of laboratory equipment, construction of a pilot processing factory
and an overseas staff training program.
26.           The Institute pursues a wide spectrum of rubber research as well
as some testing services for the industry. Research falls into the usual
categories of clone selection, agronomy, fertilizers, plant physiology, plant
pathology and rubber technology. There is both a soil testing and a small
rubber technology laboratory at the Institute and a rubber quality control in
HCM City. The quality control laboratory is linked into the international
network and officially operates ny the same test standards. In addition to
field research on its own plantation, the Institute operates many field trials
on participating company plantations and for this purpose, maintains a sub-
office and staff at Dong Nai Company. It also carries out research on the



Annex 8
- 97 -                        Page 13 of 13
cultivation of rubber in the Highlands region, but this poorly funded and
apparently little has been achieved. Part of the Highlands field program has
been conducted in cooperation with the French Rubber Research Institute
(CIRAD). RRIV has a staff of about 770 persons, including 72 graduate
researchers and 120 technical assistants. Six researchers are currently on
overseas trairning. Since the close of the UNDP/FAO project, RRIV has suffered
from increasing budget constraints.



Area planted (ha)
State Rubber                                                                        Planting Year
Company (SRC)            <1960    61-75       76-80       1981      1982       1983      1984       1985      1986       1987      1988       1989      1990       1991      1992    Total
......................................... ..............   ..............  ............... ..    ... ......                    .  ...             .        ....
TAY NINH                   602     1,361        431        100                  273       677        917       450        340       300        303       300        314       400    6,768
PHU RIENG                  644     1,031        148     1,570      1,236      1,311     1,864     2,449      1,799      1,720     1,641      1,395     1.258        762       626   19,453
PNUOC BOA                  475                                        170       916    2.500    3,626    3,306    3.723           1,803        459       540        109              17,627
DONG NAI                 4,354     2,110    10,158    2,332    3,801         4,913    6,958    3,544         2,488      1,173     1,494    2,246    2,015        2,038    1,796   51,420
OAU TIENG                1.166         94       160        285     2,666    5,098    5,892    5,831          2,948      1,577       819    1,005       1,004        517       200   29,261
BINH LONG                1,836    2,295         205        114       904        782    2,200       1,254     1,932        777    1,140       1,154       600        523       700   16,45
DONG PHU                 1,233                               8       579        531       797        614       696      1,232       715        623       793        456       209    8,486
LOC NINH                1,291        824        243        303       107       322        944        857       m          280       300        441       500       300        500    8,002
TAN BIEN                                                                         20       156        165       314         51     1,000        839       801        367        69    3,782
. ... ........ ........................... ........ ......  ..................................... ...................................................................................................... ....................... .........
TOTAL                  11,601      7,716   11,345       4,711      9,462    14,166   21,989   19,256   14,725    10,874    9,210    8,465              7,811    5,386    4,500  161,215             1
.................................................................................. ............ .........................-......-.----------------..................................-------.......-.--...----.....--^........-------..--..--- K
a/ as of December 31, 1993
State Rubber                   Planted Area (ha) a/
Company              Nature Rubber        Imnature Rubber          Total
(SRC)                (in tapping)         (planted after 1987)
...............................................................
TAY NINK                4,812                 1,957                6,768
PHU RIENG              12,052                 7,401               19,453
PHUOC RDA              10,993                 6,634               17,627
DONC NAI               40,658                10,762               51,420
DAUJ TEENG             24,140                 5,121               29,261
BINN LONG              11,522                 4,894               16,415
DON6 PHU                4,457                 4,028                8,486
LOC NINH                5,682                 2,321                8,002
TAN BtEN                   655                3,128                3,782
................ .............. -- .-..------------.---------.----- .
TOTAL                 114,970                46,245              161,215                                                                                                                     D  X
a/ projections as of December 31, 1993



Fertilizer Requirements
State Rubber                         Urea (tons) c/                       Potash (tons) d/           Rock Phosphate (tons) e/
Company (SRC)         1994      1995     1996    TOTAL      1994     1995     1996    TOTAL     1994      1995     1996    TOTAL
...... ......... ... .... .. .... ... ... ... ......................... ..... ...... .. ...........................
TAY NtNH               568       464      382    1,413       119      94        80      294      551      448       370    1,370
PHU RIENG            2,165    1,721    1,297    5,184       465      403       343    1,210    2,107    1,694    1,298    5,099
PHUOC HOA            2,237    1,379       593    4,209      645       590      277    1,512    2,270    1,507       660    4,437
DONG MAI             3,126    2,602    2,285    8,013       659       446      444    1,549    3,035    2,469    2,198    7,702
DAU TIENG            1,796    1,162       825    3,783      552       319      192    1,063    1,841    1,170       811    3,822
BtNK LONG            1,562    1,165       944    3,670      408       228      243      879    1,560    1,122       941    3,623
DONG PHU             1,129       915      645    2,689      215       250      159      624    1,083      920       640    2,643
LOC NINH               719       559      488    1,766       177      99        93      368      712      532      468    1,712
TAN BIEN               837       778      694    2,309       136       99      197      433      790      719       703    2,212
TOTAL               14,138   10,746    8,152   33,036    3,375    2,529    2,028    7,932   13,9.9  10,582    8,089   32,621
a/ mature area as of 12/31/1993 (planted before 1987)
b/ Imnature area as of 12/31/1993 (planted on and after 1987)
c/ a 250 kg/ha on finature areas and 175 kg/ha on first year of tapping
d/ a 30 kg/ha on imnature areas and 135 kg/ha on first year of tapping
et a 230 kg/ha *n imnature areas and 225 kg/ha on first year of tapping
1D (D M
I- 04
P- 00
o x



Fungicide Requirements
State Rubber                Copper Sulfate (tons) a/                       Lime (tons) b/              Difotatan (kg) c/                    other Chemicats (M)SS dV
Comany (SRC)           1994     1995      1996    TOTAL     1994      1995     1996    TOTAL      1994     1995     1996    TOTAL      1994      1995     1996   TOTAL
,.................................................................................... ..................... ........................................... ................................... .......................................................
TAY NINH                 12       10        8        30       66        58       48       172      722      773      818    2.312
PHU RIENG                42       39        32      113      243       220      184       647    1,808    2,066    2,312    6,185
PHUOC HOA                56       47       35       138      319       271      199       789    1,649    2,207    2,478    6,334
DONG NAI                 70       52        46      169      398       300      265       963    6,099    6,275    6,499   18,872
DAU TIENG                67       48        28      143      382       274      161       817    3,621    3,858    3,980   11,459
BINH LONG                32       26        24       81      181       148      137       465    1,728    1,845    2,016    5,589
DONG PHU                 19       18        17       54       109      103       94       306      669      853      961    2,483
LOC NINK                 14       12        11       37       82        69       62       214      852      894      939    2,686
TAN BIEN                 12       12        12       36       67        71       69       206       98      106      256       460
TOTAL                   323      265       213      802    1,847    1,515    1,219    4,581   17,245   18,877   20,258   56,380  100,000  100,000  100,000 300,000          1
0
a/ a 3.5 kg/ha on plantings between 4 and 10 years of age
b/ @ 20 kg/ha on plantings between 4 and 10 years of age
c/ a 150 g/ha on mature areas
d/ estimated requirements for miscellaneous chemicals
(D M 1:
FI" OD
O x
t-t



Yield Stimtgmant Requirements
State Rubber                Ethret ('000 titers) al
Company (SUC)          1994     1995     1996    TOTAL
....................................................... .......... ..................... ....
TAY NINH                 21       22       27        70
PHU RtENG                33       41       52       125
PN MOCHOA                 5       11       26        42
DONG MAI                156      t85      227       568
DAU TIENG                30       61       96       187
BtNH LONG                45       49       62       156
DONG PHU                 15       18       23        55
LOC WINN                 23       25       31        78
TAN BIEN                  0        0        1         1
TOTAL                  327       412      544   1t283
.. .. . ............. _.... .. _... .... __..  .........
a/ 2 6 t1ters/year at 2.51 on trees tapped between 5 and 15 years
and 9 titers/year at 2.5X on trees tapped nore than i5 years
Herbicide Requirements
State Rubber                Gtyphosate ('000 tfters) a/
Copany (SRC)           1994     1995     1996    TOTAL
... ... .. .. .......... .. .. ........ .............. .........
TAY NtNH                 13        5        1        19
PHUI RIENG              49        19        3        70
PHUOC HOA               44        10        1        54
DONtG AI                 71       32        5       108
DAU TIEMS                34       12        2        47
Btlo  LONG              32        14        2        48
DONG PHU                 27        9         1       37
LOC MINN                 15        7        1        23
TAN BIEN                 21       10        1        32                                             >t . B
. ......... ................ .. . ..... ................................                              -- j-. ...---.....t  
(D (D (D
TOTAL                  305       117       17      439                                                 3 o
........................................                                                               H4 . 00
a/ a 6.6 titers/year at 36X on 100l   of ituature areas In 1994                                        x
6.6 Liters/year at 36X on 50X of 1mature areas in 1995
6.6 Liters/year at 36X on 10X of i1mture areas in 1996



- 102 -                             Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
VIET NAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
GENERAL RUBBER CORPORATION AND RUBBER ESTATE COMPANIES
Introduction
1.        In 1975, the Government took over rubber production and development.
It established the General Rubber Corporation (GRC) in Ho Chi Minh City as an
administrative body responsible for planning and supervising rubber
development in the country, under a Rubber Development Ministry. Production
and development of rubber became the responsibility of the Rubber Estate
Companies (REC). GRC financed operations and investments of these REC, with
the proceeds of rubber sales, former COMECON countries loans and grants and
subsidies from Government.
2.        From 1975 to 1990, many large rubber development schemes had been
established and the number of RECs grew from 9 to 18. Some rubber development
had also been carried out by provincial authorities with GRC funding. Like
other economic activities, rubber development was centrally planned and GRC
simply acted as an instrument to implement decisions taken at government level
and to channel funds to RECs. RECs were given production and yearly planting
targets and was directly financed (most of the time inadequately) by GRC.
3.        GRC was also given a rubber marketing monopoly, all sales being done
at prices fixed by Government. Most exports went to COMECON countries.
Proceeds of COMECON loans and grants came from the sale of goods imported from
these countries under protocol arrangements signed by Government. Buying and
selling activities were carried out by RUBEXIM under GRC in local currency,
foreign exchange being entirely kept by the Central Bank.
Recent Changes
4.        Widespread economic liberalization has chdnged this arrangement. In
1990, MAFI took over the supervision of rubber development and the Rubber
Ministry was abolished. In 1991, Government started to relax its rubber
marketing policies and now all rubber is sold at export parity prices without
government intervention and the RUBEXIM monopoly has been abolished. From
early 1993, REC have recovered their right to sell their own production
directly or through agents. They are free to sell the hard currency earned to
the State Bank (Central Bank).
5.        In 1992, GRC took over RUBEXIM marketing activities and reorganized
it as a Public Commercial Company, under the supervision of MAFI and MOF. It
co-apetes with other economic agents to buy and export rubber, imports inputs,
spare parts, and rubber processing equipment on behalf of RECs.



- 103 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
Organization
6.        The GRC group of companies includes:
-    18 rubber estate companies (REC), ten of which are in the
southern provinces of the country;
-    the Viet Nam Rubber Research Institute at Lai Ke, still
financed by Government directly;
-    three autonomous enterprises (construction, rubber processing
equipment and engineering).
The GRC central services consist of:
-    three technical services (agronomy, engineering,
infrastructure);
-    three administrative services (administration, personnel,
maintenance and storage);
-    two finance divisions (planning and economics, accounting);
-    one external relations department (cooperation and
investments);
-   three social services (training center, health and recreation
centers).
7.        The central services provide technical support to RECT in any
aspects of rubber development and production. Planning, personnel and
accounting services elaborate policies and procedures to be followed by
plantations. The latter report to GRC through monthly technical reports and
financial statements which are consolidated at GRC. GRC company accounts for
1990 and 1991 are shown in Annex 9, Table 2. A relatively small amount
working capital provided by Government is used to finance rubber inventories
and marketing activities.
Rubber Estates Companies
8.        Under the previous set up, the RECs had little autonomy although
they always have been requested to maintain separate accounts, financial
statements and production cost (Annex 9, Tables 1 and 3). Detailed financial
statements by company were not available and would be submitted to IDA during
project implementation.
9.        Through GRC, Government appoints REC General Managers.  Initially in
charge of implementing government policies and achieving production and
plantation targets, they had little decision making on their own and were
constrained by rigid budgetary and financing procedures. They had no
resources other than funds provided by GRC which marketed their production
through RUBEXIM. There were no incentive either to increase production or to



- 104 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
improve production quality. The constant lack of resources obliged the Estate
to reduce costs and maintenance standards.
10.       Since 1990, rubber companies have regained their financial autonomy.
First, the flow of funds coming from COMECON protocols has ended and the
companies now rely on the banking system to finance their activities. Working
capital requirement is provided on a short-term basis at the current rate of
2.5t a month, mostly by VBA. From 1976 to 1990, COMECON loans, received
either through government or directly represented a total valued at 215,000
tons of dry rubber under the loan agreements. These amounts are not recorded
as a debt anymore since Government decided that it will service that debt
directly. Second, the companies now directly market their rubber production
at market price, which make them independent from GRC.
11.       Rubber company internal organization includes four basic services:
-    plantation service (each company includes estates of 2 to
5,000 ha each managed by an estate manager);
processing factory and workshop for maintenance of transport
fleet and equipment;
social services including schools, nursery, hospital and in
some places recreational areas; and
-    administrative services.
12.       The new setup should insure a better management of resources.  GRC
and rubber companies now can discuss government plantation target and adjust
them to the amount of funds actually available. Priority has shifted to the
modernization and development o. processing facilities which could insure a
quick return. The need to rehabilitate immature areas and increase rubber
productivity would be addressed through the project. Efforts also have been
made to reduce excessive labor force and to improve salary scales (to US$1.4
to US$2.0 per day).
13.       Government has also improved the taxation system.  Initially, most
of the depreciation allowances had to be paid to Government which financed
development budgets.  Now, depreciation allowances are part of self-generated
funds and retained to finance development expenditure.  The income tax of 40%
of net profit has been abolished and rubber plantations are subject to a
production tax (12% of turnover) and a capital tax of 4.3% of funds provided
by Government. The estimated 1992-93 cash flow takes into account these facts
and clearly shows that the GRC plantations could generate surpluses to finance
further expansion once the rehabilitation of existing assets completed.



o           WVW0"                     W           v     w           e    W           V    W            *    W           n    W            u    W$ SW             O                 n      "' ag'1 IOI         5250  5a          VJl*4lKPNg'
010                                                                                                                                                                     .u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    D W  4m
go.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A o
am4'                      Wms51W Oi'  M,W    Oi'    Sn's     Wu'   eli        Wm'       "al   401M'   sm's   Saw'   sw's    $411'"    an1    au,"             WWI   us'st   Wsam       tams    #16                  4    WOR
awl  Mt    Aw  Itw  law  awl  vA    A&    iw  AWA AW4  Mg    Iti    ow          4wt      awt    cg    Ot           liw     VmS    u1t's       mrt    a'             01      salt"UWN
tuv    WV    SU  WV  ulf  CL't  'v    l't    sre    st't    s'r  W  M`V OIKI    11"l    an         SIN     0's       IA  "551's    us                  wituoollopow s" 110,4
sit  55  Ut    MIino) aWf
on's    Cost    On's,    ws    .a's         WSfl    WA's.   on's   uinpW    sas    mt.1   untW           aW's   WaS    411Wi1   on's.    5s.'s    as'w.    m's.   lito'       awl    m's    to n.'.
mrs    La's  u's    SU't mrs    ass  at    sa's  s's    sat  at    sm's  at    mrs  mr  us's    tas    tat's  n's    its'  at's    o                   Asash sespuots'
was'   gt'        5'       ot'    gms    ItSO    i0t.    gmt         oUn      AMt'     gm'    ams        not   aOm       as'    IM'        amis    Om'       Wui     AM'      owl.    OmW       M45          J     9OAuq
-lI"1u011=u
IWW     Mt  MV  WV    NW*    vwlv  M`,    WV    a"  "PIP   4004,   $04  ll,    mn  WV  mv    on  ISO     we's     on       $erraSW"                                      -setWa  look
swig   swig   "D'a           I        M'~~~~Mito amO
mu  saw  tim  gsa  pm  us  mu  -  us   tim     us                as      us       am       isit     am      em.      us.      as.      gui     u.s      sal           JWA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c"t    "'s  u  I  teg U-s
Wu    Gm    mugswm ~  
1ga'ut   us'.    sa'.    as'.    sat  m's    as',    so',    a.'.    em',    a.'.    so'.    a.'.   ies'v    aVg  us's    en  sit's  m's  m's  mt    tto'ss      mv's    at's.  s-s
IS  556  tt  g5C  516  116  s.ot  -  -  tim  us  Wit,  Wt,   Wit              106      aut     Os.      ass      jUl      aSS     sat      565           m
0*10    0:04  SWI,   owv    owr    C~lt    folt  WV    a"  ow'v   oo'p    ow'v   so"  owlll   awl#    an  M's  M's    goo  gm  owl    IPO,                                   0 af
gm  gm  VS09    sm  gm  SON:    clog  Ml    an  Am  gm  gm   Om       Mll    aNg       NW       am      am       gm       an       an      gm       Om 15 '4in'55M i
on  an  coll    008  am  on  an  on  ON  ON    we       011       WS    WTs    swsues    m'=0               go                                                   i        atas   sam5
ZW4    ut'    U31    aL's    9141  WS    usl    to's ut's   C411    ut'  "31  Us  ulls    GS  'c"    o''sMall                                                    S  a'siS           5 51'4 M
as.  sal  as.                    wo~~~~~~~~ pol    pu-sp
gm      am       "am      gma     gm.      5        oas      Om      am      tAm       gm      am       VW       at,     am       .6       "a       am      as.      cm5   9sal        gm,    "so        oo tIM
at       as      us       a       us       a        a        as      is       ca      a        as       at'      Os'     uSt      alt'     Cs       a.       to                                                  at'. i  as.WM
tm's    tsr.    SrI    uo'l    Sri  U.',    SrI  US'S    Sri  strI    Sm',    Sm',   ttO'l   jam  mi  itt's    us's    to's    tt'i                                     s       gu's    .a.~~~am  e  ag  oos: oxi  wt  W0St M
it.',    isti    is.',  wi  itt',    as'.   its's    it,',    ssii  ss'i   its',    #55'i   its's  wi  a.'t    us's    as's    at's    as's   iLl's                    is.       ison's    us,at  am  W  O  is -11
*  0  S  0  0  0   0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0         tjEOl    ta.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eV00  MOK    a  0nO
au  Om                         WO,              0        0           & ~~~~~~~~~~~~5WSdP
at,  mu  tim  is.  is.  i.w  me  at,  uti     aS        a.      as       us      am       .06      as      a..      as.      sat      us.     sat      tue      ssao      065tH   dOt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  PM  PO  AW
t@  is  t@  ti  to  15  55  50  tO  50     5*       55      50       50       50      50       tO       UO       60      0*       So~~~~~gv3  00vv   tOL AfmLia oa A1ONS5one2A.
ti  U  it       U        it      a         .       s.      ss        .       05      Ii        i       is       15       5       5        5        5                       widrnU.



- 106 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 1
VIET NAM
AGRICULTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Smallholder Income Analysis
1.          Impact on Farm Fmaily Income. For purposes of illustraticn, a model
of a typical smallholder beneficiary receiving credit and agricutlural services
is presented in Table 1.1 It is assumed that a farmer grows two crops of paddy
per year without the project on a 0.5 ha holding.   The first crop yeilds 3
tors/ha to produce 1.5 tons of paddy sold at an average price of VND1,100/kg to
give a gross income of VND1,650,000.   With a deduction of cash costs of
VND750,000 for land preparation, seeds, a small amount of fertilizer and other
purchased inputs, the farmer receives a net margin of VND900,000.   From the
second paddy crop, a margin of 1,1800,000 is received to give a total income of
VND2,080,000 for about 180 days' work, equivalent to US$208 per year. To this
woul dbe added income from other family employment, on or off farm.
2.          With short-term credit and extension advice under the project, the
farmer grows two crops of improved paddy together with a legume, soybeans. The
net margin rises to VND1,830,000 on each paddy crop and VND1,250,000 for the
soybeans to give a net margin of VND4,910,000 equivlaent of US$491 per year for
310 days worked. With mediium-term credit, the farmer would be able to establish
a fish pond and rear pigs.
Table 1.1: Farm Income Effect
Gross
Area   Yield   Production    Price    Margin   Cash    Net
Crop   ha     per ha   tons        VND/Kg    tD'000)    Cost    Margin
Without Project
Paddy        1     0.5    3.0        1.5        1,100    1,650      750      900
Paddy       2      0.5    3.6        1.8        1,100    1,890      800   1,180
Total                                                    3,630     1,550   2,080
With Project
Paddy        1     0.5    5.0        2.5        1,100    2,750      920   1,830
Paddy       2      0.5    5.0        2.5        1,100    2,750      920   1,830
Soybeans           0.5    1.0        0.5        3,400    1,700      450    1,250
Total                                           5,600    7,200    2,290   4,910
Source: Mission estimates from field interviews.



- 107 -                               Annex 12
Page 1
VIET NAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONSULTANCY SERVICES
(Months)
Extension                                 1994        1995         1996       Total
Extension Methodology Expert           6           6           -         12
Extension Training Expert              6           6           -         12
Farming Systems Expert                 6           6           -        12
Unallocated                            2           2           2          6
Sub-Total                           20         20            2        42
Plant Protection
Training Specialist                    9           9           9         27
IPM Specialist                         9           9           9        27
Sub-total                           18          18          18        54
Agricultural Sector Manacrement
Sector Policy Specialist               6           3           -          9
Project Prep.and Implementation        3           3           -         6
Unallocated                            -           3           3          6
Sulb-Total                           9           9           3        2.
VBA Strencrtheninc
Banking Specialists(3)                18          18          18         54
External Audit                        20          20          20         60
Unallocated                            6          12           8         26
Sub-Total                           44          50          46       140
Rubber Rehabilitation
Plantation management                  6           6           6         18
Processing                             6           6           6         18
Effluent Control                       3           3           3          9
Training                               3           3           -          6
Short-Term Specialists                 6           6           6         18
Sub-Total                           24          24          21        69
Total                                115         121          90        326



IBRD 24879
A_ {N OCH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INA
CHINACHINA
/ V <' -1^ {-~~~~~~~~~S o    -6,}N
A~~~~~~~MIY
LAO PEOPLE'S hon h<                                                        1 10
20 DEMOCRATIC                  Ho a                          VIET NAM                   20
REPUBLIC r~J' ts                                 AGRICULTURAL
REHABILITATION PROJECT
PLANT PROTECTION COMPONENTS
RESEARCH INSTITUTES
'    EXTENSION COMPONENTS
VININ {   5\Ha Tinbi  '-:   RUBBER COMPANIES
RIERS
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
98   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,lQen  n I T ngTuCo  e
T r,
T H A I L AhuoD Thieni
THAILAND~~ Hl                                     ILETS
endor~.e,e,v Iyoev.pgNon -0
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hu
t                                     /            ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yen
l           ,;~~~~~ C AM  BO  D IA                     DocLac   ( _
v    R  g     h  nh~~~~~~1 Hoe
PHNOM PENH           {o2rBn   
elech ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ MTobn bonnd                                          110
-,B Oh ThuaER
10             ;    Vinht Trv ~~~~~~~~~Ho Chi Minhejl0e
usc  dfee  s.1                                     0     50  100  150  200  250
astb{     !  Hoi                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
of slh b-d                 105.                                                    1 00
OCTOBER 1993
24879BICI]l'JM93



