Document of
The World Bank
Report No:20385
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VIETNAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2561-VN
June 28,2000
Rural Development & Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   Vietnamese Dong (VND)
US$1           =   VND10,700 (as of December 1993)
US$1          =   VND14,019 (as of December 1999)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1994     1995     1996      1997     1998     1999
9,029   11,008    11,029   11,543   13,234   13,941
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
VIETNAM FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARP       Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
GRC       General Rubber Corporation
IDA       International Development Association
IPM       Integrated Pest Management
MAFI    Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries
MARD    Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MOF       Ministry of Finance
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SRC       State Rubber Company
VBARD   Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
Vice President            :      Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director          :      Andrew Steer, EACVF
Sector Director           :      Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader                 Philippe Boyer, EASRD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary ...........................................................       i
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment ........................................................... 1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ..........................................................1l
B. Achievement of Objectives ...........................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .............5
D. Project Sustainability ...........................................................6
E. Bank Performance ...........................................................7
F. Borrower Performance .....................            ..7
G. Assessment of Outcome ....................8
H. Future Operations ....................9
I. Key Lessons Learned ....................9
Part II: Statistical Tables .........................                              11
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3:  Project Timetable .13
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated
and Actual .14
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation .14
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation .14
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .15
Table 8A: Project Costs.                                                16
Table 8B: Project Financing .17
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits .17
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .18
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .18
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .19
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .20
Appendices:
Appendix A:  Mission's Aide Memoire .21
Appendix B:  Borrower Contribution to the ICR .28
Appendix C:    Assessment of Financial and Economic Impact .38
Map:             IBRD 30855
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






VIETNAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2561-VN)
PREFACE
This is the Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project in Vietnam, for which an IDA credit in the amount of SDR69.4 million
(US$96 million equivalent) was approved on January 25, 1994, and made effective on June 1,
1994. The original closing date of December 31, 1997, was extended twice and the credit finally
closed on June 30, 1999. About 98% of the credit (SDR68.0 million, or US$98.8 million
equivalent) was disbursed, with the final applications received on October 27, 1999, and paid on
December 2, 1999.
The ICR was drafted by FAO/World Bank Co-operative Programme (FAO/CP), and
completed by Messrs. Philippe Boyer (Task Manager), William Cuddihy (Agricultural
Economist), Arie Chupak (Financial Analyst), and Ms. Minhnguyet Le Khorami (Team
Assistant), East Asia Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit (EASRD). It was
reviewed by Mark Wilson (Sector Manager), EASRD. The Borrower provided comments that
are included as Appendix B to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR is based on the findings of two FAO/CP implementation
completion missions in October 1999 and February 2000, and on materials in the project file and
provided by each of the three Project Coordination Units (PCUs), discussions with the heads and
staff from the PCUs and senior officials from the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
(MARD), Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD), and General Rubber
Corporation (GRC). The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by offering views
reflected in the Aide-Memoire (Appendix A), commenting on the draft ICR, and preparing its
own evaluation of project execution (Appendix B).






-1-
VIETNAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2561-VN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.       Introduction. The Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP) was identified through
a comprehensive sector review process undertaken, between 1989 and 1990, by the World Bank
in collaboration with the Government of Vietnam (GOV). It was the first project in the rural
sector following the resumption of World Bank activities in Vietnam. The preparation process
was thorough and the agreed developments clearly reflected the priorities of GOV's Five-year
Development Plan (1995 - 1999), to promote liberalization of the rural sector.
ii.      Project Objectives.  The project aimed at increasing rural incomes through a
program for improving support services and increasing credit resources for smallholders,
rehabilitating rubber production, and assisting in reorienting key rural institutions. The project
had some operation in 51 of Vietnam's 61 provinces. It was designated as a Program of Targeted
Interventions for poverty reduction. It had three main components: (a) agricultural services; (b)
rural credit; and (c) rehabilitation of rubber production. The project was implemented through
three autonomous Project Coordination Units (PCUs), one for each component.
iii.      Evaluation of Objectives.  The project objectives were clear and timely. However
given the prevailing situation in Vietnam at the time, its proposed short implementation period of
three and a half years was unrealistic. Additionally, the Bank had limited experience in operating
in a country rapidly changing from a centrally planned economy. The Borrower also had no
experience of dealing with the Bank.
iv.      Achievement of Objectives. The project implementation period was originally set at
three and a half years; however the closing date was extended twice, and operations closed after
five years, on June 30, 1999. Main project achievements include: (i) increased crop and livestock
output in the project areas; (ii) farmer support services that are more demand-driven; and (iii)
rehabilitated rubber plantations and modernized processing facilities. The three PCUs operated
efficiently, with regard to procurement, disbursement and reporting. Project funds were generally
well managed. Monitoring and evaluation were carried out independently under each component.
v.       Agricultural Services.  This component aimed to upgrade the quality of support
services delivered to farmers through four activities (extension, crop protection, research and
sector management) that were implemented by sub-PCUs in the concerned departments of
MARD.
vi.      Livestock Extension  This sub-component was redesigned to support livestock
extension, in place of crop extension as proposed at appraisal. It aimed at improving cattle
productivity through cross breeding with high productivity zebu breeds, and was successfully
implemented in 231 districts in the 27 provinces where the national herd is mostly situated.
Artificial insemination services were strengthened. Training was provided for some 5,200



- ii -
extension operators and 25,500 farmers, and reached an estimated 460,000 families. Nearly
500,000 indigenous cows were crossbred, resulting in some 360,000 improved calves,
considerably exceeding the initial plan. The resulting cattle have higher weights and better
production performance.
vii.     Plant Protection. This sub-component aimed to raise crop productivity through
promoting integrated pest management (IPM). Training courses were provided in 35 provinces
between 1995 and 1997 to some 68,500 farmer leaders through 2,300 farmer field schools (FFS).
The training also helped to improve cultivation methods, and rice production has increased in the
project areas while associated plant protection is more efficient, cheaper and environmentally
sound. Sixteen plant quarantine sub-departments were established, together with monitoring
systems to provide early warning for plant diseases and for chemical residues.
viii.    Agricultural Research. This small sub-component was focused on supporting crop
research at three research institutes in different parts of the country. Some 2,000 research
scientists benefited from workshops or study tours under the project. In addition, project
activities were effective in accelerating breeding and technological developments for new rice
varieties, distributing hybrid seeds, and transferring new technologies to farmers through
demonstrations.
ix.      Sector Management.  This sub-component was focused on upgrading two
management training institutes and training staff from MARD headquarters, provincial and
district offices in sector and human resources management skills, policy planning and economic
analysis. Equipment was provided for the institutes and a comprehensive training program was
implemented involving some 1,500 officers, while a cadre of planning officers was initiated.
However, while the basic management developments were realised, little was achieved in
developing policy-planning capacities. Also, the planned study for reorienting the MARD
organization towards the market economy did not proceed due to the reorganization of MARD.
x.       Rural Credit. This component aimed at providing short and medium-term credit to
small-scale farmers, for up to five years, and assisting the institutional development of the
Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD). A line of credit totalling
US$52 million equivalent was established and fully disbursed by mid-1996. This fund had
benefited some 750,000, predominantly small-scale farm households in 13 provinces and the
repayment record has consistently exceeding 95%.  The implementation of the agreed
Institutional Development Plan (IDP) contributed substantially to the financial and institutional
strength of VBARD, which, as a result, has become the Bank for the rural private sector and the
largest deposit institution in the country, the most transparent of all Vietnamese State Owned
Commercial Banks. Much more work, however, is still needed in improving institutional
restructuring, profitability, financial and risk management systems.
xi.      Rubber Rehabilitation. This component aimed at rehabilitating the rubber sector
through improving maintenance in rubber plantations, modernizing processing facilities,
strengthening rubber research, and upgrading management and technical skills of the General
Rubber Corporation (GRC). It also included funds for a comprehensive study of the potential for
smallholder rubber production. Achievements in plantation rehabilitation were substantial.
Fertilizers and herbicides were applied to the immature areas (about 40,000 ha), while yield
stimulants and fungicides were applied to mature trees, although in smaller quantities than
planned at appraisal. Average yields increased by about 30% from 880 kg/ha to 1,150 kg/ha



- iii -
during the project period, from 1994 to 1998. It is estimated that inputs provided under the
project for the immature areas played an important role in restoring cultural practices and in
helping GRC and the individual State Rubber Companies to recover financial equilibrium. Five
new factories were built and one rehabilitated, but with less additional capacity and at higher unit
investment costs than planned. A study on treatment of effluent from rubber factories was
completed and installation of three plants was initiated. Rubber research capabilities were
strengthened, while a study into the potential for smallholder rubber production was successfully
completed and later provided the basis for the follow-on IDA-financed Agricultural
Diversification Project.
xii.     Project Costs and Financing. Total project costs, at US$107.5 million, were very
close to appraisal estimates of US$106.7 million, although there were major project design
revisions undertaken in the extension services sub-component. Counterpart financing of project
activities was in general satisfactory, except for the delays in releasing counterpart funds each
year which affected the progress of implementation of the agricultural services component.
Disbursement progress was also satisfactory, with about 98% of the credit (SDR68.0 million, or
US$98.8 million equivalent) disbursed.
xiii.    Results and Impact. Under the agricultural services component, extension activities
had a decisive impact on raising cattle productivity, benefiting some 460,000 farm households.
Plant protection activities helped to enhance rice productivity, while support for crop research
helped to advance important work on rice breeding and cultivation. The smallholder credit
benefited about 750,000 small-scale farmers, enabling them to take advantage of the potential
crop and livestock benefits from the agricultural services components, while achieving high
repayment rates. Activities under the rubber rehabilitation component undoubtedly helped the
plantations to improve their productivity with yields increasing by 30%, while the construction of
modem crumb processing factories and the effluent treatment plants are already helping to raise
rubber quality and demonstrate the long-term environmental benefits from reduced pollution.
Agricultural management activities under the project have had some good results: training was
completed as envisaged and institutional improvements that were started should provide a sound
basis for future consolidation. However, the important study for restructuring MARD was
postponed and strengthening its policy planning capacity was limited.
xiv.     Project Sustainability and Future Operations. Because of the demonstrated impact
of the project so far and the commitment of GOV to alleviate rural poverty, it is expected that the
activities initiated under the project will be sustained. The rural credit system has been
strengthened and provision of agricultural services improved, and continuation of these activities
is supported in part under the follow-on Agricultural Diversification Project. However, the
replication of these activities to non-project areas may be affected by limitations in fiscal
resources. GRC is expected to continue implementing technical packages developed under the
project to enhance the productivity of rubber plantations and factories.
xv.      Project Outcome. The overall project outcome is considered satisfactory. It is
assessed that the basic objectives of raising rural incomes and reducing poverty, under the
agricultural services and rural credit components, have been met in the project areas. Project
financing contributed to the rehabilitation of the rubber sector and had a positive impact on the
environment. The re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of the rubber rehabilitation
component is 30%, below the appraisal estimate of 52%, mainly due to the decline of long term



- iv-
rubber price projections. The rate of return remained high, however, because of the high sunk
costs.
xvi.      Performance of the Bank and the Borrower. Overall, Bank perfornance was
satisfactory throughout preparation, appraisal, and during implementation. Strengths in Bank
performance included sound preparation, receptivity to requests for adapting project activities, a
proactive approach to problem solving, appropriate use of skills-mix during supervision, and
continuity in task management.  Progress monitoring and impact assessment under the
agricultural services component, however, could have been improved if key performance
indicators had been selected at appraisal and used during implementation. The Borrower's
performance was also satisfactory. The project benefited from strong GOV ownership. The three
PCUs operated efficiently, particularly with regard to planning, budgeting, procurement,
disbursement and reporting, and project funds were well managed. Because GOV was unfamiliar
with Bank's operational procedures, it relied heavily on the Bank's guidance in assessing
implementation progress and initiating correcting measures.
xvii.    Key Lessons Learned. Six key lessons have emerged from the ARP: (a) sound
sector planning is an important precursor for successful rural development projects, especially in
countries that are in transition; (b) it is essential to make provisions for ensuring continuation of
improved support services and their replication to non-project areas after project completion; (c)
successful smallholder credit operations require an independent and viable financial institution,
qualified and experienced staff and management, close supervision, and strong focus on timely
repayment at all levels; (d) close and flexible supervision and continuity in World Bank staffing
are important for ensuring successful project implementation; (e) projects with highly diverse
activities work best with a separate PCU for each component; and (f) Government strong support
and ownership of project's implementing agencies are crucial for project success, while the
ability to provide counterpart funds when required is critical for timely implementation and
sustenance of project activities.



VIETNAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2561-VN)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.       The Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP) was identified through comprehensive
sector analyses undertaken between 1989 and 1990 by the World Bank, with the assistance of
UNDP and FAO/CP, in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
(MARD), formerly the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries (MAFI). The project
proposal was detailed during the appraisal mission in 1993.
2.       The objective of the ARP was to raise rural income levels through a program aimed at
improving smallholder support services, increasing credit resources for farmers, rehabilitating
rubber production, and assisting in rehabilitating key rural institutions. The ARP was the first
project in the rural sector following the resumption of World Bank activities in Vietnam and it
formed an integral part of Government's Five-Year Plan strategy (1995 - 1999) for encouraging
transition of the rural sector to the market economy. It was designated as a Program of Targeted
Interventions for poverty reduction.
3.       The project had three main components: (a) agricultural services, including extension,
crop protection, agricultural research and sector management; (b) provision of rural credit; and
(c) rehabilitation of rubber production, through improving the condition of plantations and
developing modem processing factories. Assistance for rehabilitating key rural institutions, was
integral part of all components. Three separate Project Coordination Units (PCUs) were created
within MARD, the Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD) and the
General Rubber Corporation (GRC), to implement the project which had some operation in 51 of
Vietnam's 61 provinces.
4.       Evaluation of Objectives. The project objectives were clear and timely. However,
given the prevailing situation in Vietnam at the time, its proposed short implementation period of
three and a half years was unrealistic. Additionally, the Bank had limited experience operating in
a country rapidly changing from centrally planned to the market economy. It was learning
through doing without a lending strategy. Conceptually, the project was simple, but placed heavy
demands on the Borrower's implementation capacity as this was the first in what was expected to
be a long-term series of IDA projects to develop Vietnam's agriculture. The Borrower had no
experience of dealing with the Bank, which led to some implementation delays.



B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.       The project achieved most of its objectives, including: (i) increased crop and livestock
output, due to the provision of credit and support services; (ii) reorienting farmer support services
to make them more demand-driven, including agricultural research, training, extension, crop
protection, and animal breeding; (iii) significant rehabilitation of rubber plantations and
modernization of processing facilities; and (iv) initiation of improvements to overall sector
management. The success is particularly noteworthy, because this was the Bank's first rural
development project after an interval of twenty years, and activities reached a large number of
provinces in all regions of the country. There were, however, some shortfalls in the planned
developments, mainly affecting institutional developments.
Agricultural Services Component
6.       This component aimed to strengthen and upgrade the coverage and quality of
agricultural support services delivered to small-scale farmers. It was implemented through a
PCU established in MARD and organized through four sub-components: extension, plant
protection, research, and agricultural sector management. Administrative difficulties, delays in
the release of counterpart funds and initial changes requested by GOV under the extension sub-
component delayed completion of this component by one year until end-1998. Operations of the
four sub-components reached 51 of Vietnam's 61 provinces, and absorbed some 13% of the total
project expenditures.
7.       Livestock Extension Sub-Component.  Originally intended to strengthen crop
services, this component was redesigned at the request of MAFI/MARD to support livestock
extension services, due to changing priorities for IDA assistance following the emergence of the
country as a net exporter of rice. The emphasis of the redesigned component was on improving
cattle productivity through cross breeding indigenous cows with high productivity zebu breeds.
These developments were successfully implemented in 27 provinces (231 districts) where the
majority of the national herd is located. Some 5,200 extension agents, 2,365 cattle inseminators
at all administrative levels and 25,500 farmers were trained, and an estimated 470,000 farm
households benefited from breeding and other support services. All of these achievements
exceeded the initial plan and it is estimated that half of the national herd has benefited, directly or
indirectly, from these activities. Nearly 500,000 indigenous cows were crossbred, resulting in
some 360,000 improved calves, more than double the target, while average incremental weight
gains of the improved calves were also higher than predicted, with a growth rate 30-40% higher
than that of local breeds.
8.       The decision to amend the focus of the extension sub-component from crops to
livestock was fully justified for three reasons: first, farmers were already responding to GOV
policy initiatives for encouraging increased crop production; second, activities under the pest
control sub-component impacted on rice production in a comprehensive way; and third, it enabled
initial harnessing of potential improvements in cattle production.
9.       Plant Protection Sub-Component.  This aimed to raise crop productivity by
promoting integrated pest management (IPM) through a hands-on field training program,
implemented between 1995 and 1997 in 35 provinces. Bank resources were applied to support an
ongoing FAO IPM regional program. A knowledge information system was developed for 1,700



- 3-
local specialists, technicians, extension personnel and some 68,500 farmer-leaders were reached
through about 2,300 farmer field schools (FFS), against a target of about 1,600 field schools,
while 360 demonstration sites were established under the project. Sixteen plant quarantine sub-
departments were set-up, together with monitoring systems to provide early warning for plant
diseases and for chemical residues.
10.      The achievements of this sub-component exceeded the SAR plan and were, in fact,
more far-reaching than the intended IPM. The training also helped to improve cultivation
methods, raise the efficiency of fertiliser application, and extend the use of hybrid rice seeds. In
the project areas, rice production has increased and plant protection for the rice crop is more
efficient, cheaper and environmentally sound. These activities were also started for other crops,
mainly vegetables.
11.      Agricultural Research Sub-Component. This was a small sub-component, focused
on supporting work at three food-crop research institutes in different parts of the country. Project
financing was used to re-equip laboratories and provide training, workshops or study tours for
some 2,000 research scientists. Research-oriented activities under the project included varietal
selection, accelerating breeding and technological developments for new rice varieties, and
transferring new technologies to farmers through demonstrations. This included distribution of
higher yielding rice seeds (from hybrid and improved conventional rice varieties) in 10 provinces
and contributed to increased rice output. Equipment provided under the project also had a
significant impact on intensifying, accelerating and expanding trials of new varieties of rice.
12.      Sector Management Sub-Component.  This was focused on re-equipping two
management schools and training key staff from MARD headquarters and provincial and district
offices, in sector and human resources management skills, and policy planning and economic
analysis. A comprehensive training program was implemented, involving some 1,500 officers
and a cadre of planning officers was initiated at all administrative levels. While the management
and human resources developments were largely realised, less was achieved in developing policy
planning capacities. The sub-component also included a study aimed at reorienting the Ministry
organization towards the market economy. However, the study was postponed, soon after project
initiation, and later cancelled, following the reorganization of MAFI into MARD, which also
absorbed the line ministries previously responsible for water resources and forestry.
Rural Credit Component
13.      This component aimed at providing short and medium-term credit to small-scale
farmers, and supporting institutional development for the bank, through training and technical
assistance. It was implemented through a PCU established in VBARD. A line of credit, totalling
US$52 million equivalent, was established in 1994 and fully disbursed by mid-1996 (one year
ahead of schedule), benefiting an estimated 750,000 farm households, during the first
disbursement period of the credit component. It is estimated that, through the 2nd and 3rd
generations of the fund, total number of beneficiaries may range between 1.5 million to 2 million.
Short-term loans were used to purchase inputs for crop and livestock production, including hybrid
rice seeds, while medium-term loans, for up to five years, were used to purchase improved
livestock and farm machinery.



- 4-
14.      The rate of timely repayment of these loans has been consistently above 95%, and the
funds are now being recycled. Project-financed credit was targeted mainly to smallholders in
poor districts in ten provinces. Because of small loan size (average about US$280), individual
beneficiary monitoring was not practical and farm budget analysis was used as an impact
measure. The implementation of the agreed Institutional Development Plan (IDP) contributed
substantially to the financial and institutional strength of VBARD. Through its IDP, VBARD
carried out the agreed training program, initiated the installation of a MIS operation, improved its
efficiency in terms of operating costs over average outstanding loan portfolio (about 3.9%),
carried out an external audit by international audit firm, and implementation of recommendations
made by the auditor in its Diagnostic Report was initiated. As a result of its institutional
strengthening plans, VBARD has become the bank for the rural private sector and the largest
deposit institution in the country, the most transparent of all Vietnamese State Owned
Commercial Banks, and move furthest toward adoption of International Accounting Standards
(IAS) principles. Much more work is needed, however, in improving institutional restructuring,
financial and risk management. As part of the rubber rehabilitation component, VBARD acted as
agent in handling short- and long-term loans, totalling US$27.8 million.
Rubber Rehabilitation Component
15.      This component aimed to support the government's strategy for rehabilitating the
rubber sector in the south-east region. Financing was provided for improving plantation
management, modernizing processing facilities, strengthening rubber research, and upgrading
management and technical skills. It also included funds for a comprehensive study of the
potential for smallholder rubber production. The component was coordinated through a PCU
established in the General Rubber Corporation (GRC). The nine (later ten) State Rubber
Companies (SRCs) in the region were responsible for implementing plantation and processing
activities, and the Rubber Research Institute for Vietnam (RRIV) for the research operations.
VBARD administered the credit fund provided under the project to finance physical
developments for this component.
16.      Relative to SAR targets, achievements in plantation rehabilitation were positive. Up
until 1989, COMECON was the major trading partner of GRC. When this organization collapsed
in the early 1990s, GRC was restructured and the individual plantation companies (SRCs) were
given operational autonomy. However, the companies did not have adequate funds to maintain
the immature areas, and the conditions of rubber plantations started to decline. Project support
was opportune in this situation. The quantity of fertilizers procured under the project was in line
with SAR estimates, but the purchase of chemicals was less than predicted in the SAR
(herbicides 50%, crop protection chemicals 45% and yield stimulant 35%). Some of these
differences are explained by changes in techniques (e.g., establishment of cover crop and manual
weeding in place of herbicide), while others (e.g., reduced use of yield stimulant) occurred due to
differences in technical views on optimum treatments and continued reliance on labor intensive
methods. Average yields increased by about 30% from 880 kg/ha to 1,150 kg/ha during the
project period, from 1994 to 1998. It is estimated that inputs provided under the project for the
immature areas (about 40,000 ha) played an important role in restoring cultural practices and in
helping GRC and the individual SRCs to recover financial equilibrium. Total incremental rubber
production attributed to the project from 1994 to 1998 is estimated around 50,000 tons.



17.      The rubber factory developments were delayed and mostly completed in 1999. Five
new factories were constructed as planned. However, only one old factory was rehabilitated
compared to four planned at appraisal, as the cost of rehabilitation was considered too high by the
SRCs relative to the expected benefits. When completed, the incremental capacity resulting from
project investments was 48,000 tons, compared to the target of 74,000 tons (66%) envisaged in
the SAR. The variability in the quality of the rubber produced declined, while the percentage of
rubber classified as first grade under the Vietnam standard grading increased to over 80%. Unit
costs for the construction of a new factory were in line with appraisal estimates for the processing
equipment, but higher than anticipated for the civil works. GRC carried out a study of the
treatment of effluent from rubber factories and one plant was installed and two others initiated at
project-financed sites. These provided a valuable demonstration for adoption by all factories in
order to avoid pollution and comply with GOV environmental regulations.
18.      Project funding helped in modernizing research and diagnostic capabilities of RRIV
and provided training of research staff. Research programs on breeding, cultivation methods and
tapping systems particularly benefited from project support.  The study of potential for
smallholder rubber production was completed and this provided a basis for the follow-on IDA-
financed Agricultural Diversification Project.
Institutional Developments
19.      The three components included provisions for raising the efficiency of associated
institutions and, in the case of the agricultural services and rural credit components, making their
operations more demand-driven. Ambitious training programs were mostly realized and the work
of the associated technical assistance specialists (TA) clearly had an impact on technical
production and processing operations, as well as strengthening management. However, they had
less effect on fundamental organization of the institutions concerned.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
20.      Project Implementation was satisfactory but took about eighteen months longer than
estimated, although the rural credit component was completed one year ahead of schedule.
Implementation of the agricultural services component was completed by end-1998, one year
behind schedule, due to initial delays resulting from initial changes to the extension sub-
component requested by MAFI/MARD, and difficulties in the annual release of counterpart
funds. The rubber rehabilitation component was completed by mid-1999, eighteen months after
the original closing date, mainly due to delays in the procurement and construction of new
factories.
21.      The project outcome was affected by a series of factors. On the positive side, these
included: (i) free market conditions for food crops that stimulated smallholders to increase
production; (ii) comprehensive sector analysis that provided a solid basis for identifying priority
developments; (iii) effective training that aroused keen receptivity by farmers to project
developments; (iv) strong commitment to the project activities by Government, management of
MARD, VBARD, GRC, and PCU staff; (v) flexible approach by the World Bank in amending
components and resolving difficulties during implementation; and (vi) Bank staff continuity.



- 6-
22.       On the negative side, project operations were affected by: (i) MOF difficulties in
releasing counterpart funds under the agricultural services component which delayed annual
developments; (ii) uncertainty over funding for continuing and replicating project activities under
the agricultural services component; (iii) complex procurement process for rubber factories which
delayed completion of new factory construction; and (iv) lack of interest in MARD for
undertaking a study of its organizational structure.
23.       Project Costs and Financing. Total project costs were estimated at US$107.5
million, very close to the appraisal estimates of US$106.7 million. The costs remained on target
despite major revisions in the design of the extension services sub-component. As for the rubber
rehabilitation, the cost was much higher for incremental factory capacity. The actual cost, at
US$33.8 million, was slightly below the appraisal estimate of US$35.9 million, but only 48,000
tons/year factory capacity was added as against 78,000 tons/year estimated at appraisal.
Counterpart financing of project activities by GOV was in general satisfactory, despite initial
budgetary problems faced by provincial agricultural departments in implementing their activities,
for example plant protection demonstrations. Furthermore, delays by the Ministry of Finance in
releasing counterpart funds each year affected the progress of implementation of the agricultural
services component. Disbursement progress was also satisfactory. About 98% of the credit
(SDR68.0 million, or US$98.8 million equivalent) was disbursed, with the final applications
received on October 27, 1999, and paid on December 2, 1999.
24.       Procurement.  The procurement of goods, equipment and services (technical
assistance) was highly satisfactory considering the unfamiliarity of implementing agencies with
Bank procurement procedures. However, there were delays in the finalization by GRC of
contracts for rubber factories' processing equipment and civil works, which contributed to the
overall delay in the completion of the rubber rehabilitation component.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.       The policies adopted by GOV during the 1990s provided a stimulus for increased
agricultural production. As a result, there was some autonomous increase in output occurring
during project implementation.  Nonetheless, the project played an important role in
systematically promoting these policies and providing the means for increasing production in the
project areas. It is important that these project activities be continued and replicated in other
areas. The follow-on Agricultural Diversification Project provides combined support for annual
crops, livestock, rubber and credit for smallholders in priority provinces in central Vietnam, and
continued institutional support to central agencies.
26.       Overall, it is expected that the activities initiated under the project will be sustained.
Furthermore, some project-induced actions have developed sustainability, while others have
received support from other donors. The cattle breeding is the most obvious, where crossbred
bulls produced under the project are being widely used - in addition to the Al service that was
effectively strengthened. In addition, the use of improved rice production technologies is
continuing to multiply. Sustainability of the credit operation depends on its profitability to
VBARD, and will be ensured as long as VBARD would be allowed to charge adequate interest
rate to cover its related cost of funds, operating costs, provision for possible loan losses, and leave
some profit for equity increase. Breakdown of the present VBARD loan portfolio (four years
after this component was fully disbursed) suggests that VBARD is not only continuing its lending



- 7-
to the project's target groups but it is actually expanding is services to these groups of farm
household, i.e. sustainability of this component is maintained.
27.      Results from the project-related research activities will continue to unfold, but the
long-term viability of government funded food crop research programs is questionable,
particularly in view of the plethora of institutions involved. In the same way, the continuity of
the pivotal actions for extending knowledge and information through training programs and
demonstrations is in question. Some of these activities are being continued, but the rate of
development has been slowed due to limitations on recurrent funds.
28.      Activities under the rubber rehabilitation component undoubtedly helped GRC and
the rubber sector to recover from the decline imposed by the collapse of COMECON. Activities
for increasing the productivity of rubber plantations will continue and the outcome of the study of
smallholder production should bear fruit under the Agricultural Diversification Project. The
factory modernization program, started under the project with the construction of five modern
crumb processing factories, is expected to continue, but its pace will be affected by the
fluctuations of the international rubber market. This emphasises the importance for GOV to
develop a clear strategy for the long-term development of the rubber sector in Vietnam. The
installation of effluent treatment plants, which demonstrated the long-term environmental benefits
from reduced pollution, will be completed by the SRCs in order to comply with GOV regulations
for environmental protection.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
29.      The Bank's performance is assessed as satisfactory throughout preparation, appraisal,
and during implementation. Strengths in Bank performance included sound preparation (based
on comprehensive sector analysis, in collaboration with other aid agencies), receptivity to
requests for adapting project activities, a proactive approach to problem solving, appropriate use
of skills-mix during supervision, and continuity in task management. However, tabulation of key
performance indices at appraisal would have helped the process of progress monitoring and
impact assessment under the agricultural services component. In view of the importance of
reorienting MARD structure and functions to better support rural sector development, the Bank
could have been more persuasive in pushing for completion of the proposed organizational study.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.      The Borrower's performance is assessed as satisfactory. The project benefited from
strong GOV ownership. However, delays in releasing counterpart funds each year, affected the
progress of implementation of the agricultural services component. The three PCUs operated
efficiently, particularly with regard to planning, budgeting, procurement, disbursement and
reporting. Project funds were well managed. Because GOV was unfamiliar with Bank's
operational procedures, it relied heavily on the Bank's guidance in assessing implementation
progress and initiating correcting measures. While project implementation proceeded separately
under each component, since progress was not interdependent, satisfactory general coordination
and liaison were provided by the International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of
Finance, as envisaged at appraisal. However, project operations might have benefited from the
establishment of a joint steering committee to guide implementation. It would have also been
useful to set up a small central unit in MARD to monitor and evaluate project developments and



- 8-
assess the overall impact of the project. Such objective monitoring and evaluation would also
assist in planning future developments.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31.       Physical Outcome.  The overall project outcome is assessed as satisfactory.
Achievements under livestock extension and crop protection activities exceeded SAR targets.
The rural credit component, supporting technical developments, was completely disbursed within
two years and has maintained a timely recovery rate of 95%. Research facilities for crop
production and rubber were re-equipped and wide-ranging training programs were provided.
Project financing contributed to the improvement of rubber plantations and five crumb processing
factories were built and some effluent treatment plants established at rubber factories.
32.      Institutional Outcome. Agricultural management activities under the project have
had mixed results and institutional developments fell short of expectations. However, training
was completed as envisaged and the institutional improvements that were started should provide a
basis for future consolidation. The postponement of the important study for restructuring MARD
and strengthening its policy planning capacity should have been undertaken as a matter of
urgency. While much more work is needed to make VBARD a strong financial institution, its
institutional strengthening component had achieved substantial results in fostering VBARD's
financial and institutional performance
33.       Social Outcome. The basic objectives of raising rural incomes and focusing on the
poorest rural communities will have been largely met through activities under the agricultural
services and smallholder credit components in the project areas. However, the opportunities for
replicating or even continuing these achievements in non project areas will depend on available
fiscal resources. Apart from the study into potential smallholder production, these social
objectives were not directly relevant to the rubber rehabilitation, where the philosophy of estate
operation was maintained.
34.       Environmental Outcome. The project had a positive environmnental impact. The
management and application of crop protection chemicals and fertilizers has been greatly
improved and the indiscriminate use of pesticides has been reduced dramatically in the project
areas. Improved operating standards from the new rubber processing factories and, especially,
the introduction of effluent treatment plants will have an important impact on environmental
protection. It is important to ensure that these developments are expanded to all factory sites.
35.       Financial and Economic Outcome. The viability of activities under the project
generally reached expectations. For annual crops, beneficiary farmers using a package of credit,
fertilizer, and improved seeds, the benefit cost ratio for irrigated paddy in the Red River Delta
was estimated at completion to be about 4.6 compared with 3.4 at appraisal. This was lower in
less fertile areas, such as the Central Coast. For farmers using IPM, the B/C ratios were higher
than these since the largest cash expenditure is usually on pesticides and its application.
Activity           Appraisal          Completion
- annual crops       B/C  1.9/1, 3.4/1      B/C 4.6/1
- rubber                 IRR 52%             IRR 30%
- livestock            Not included         2.3/1, 1.3/1



36.      The internal rate of return on rubber rehabilitation was estimated at 30%  at
completion compared with 52% at appraisal.  The difference is mainly due to lower price
assumptions for rubber. Rubber price forecasts have shifted downwards due to expectations of
long run market conditions. The relatively high returns are due to the considerable sunk costs in
plantation rehabilitation where improved fertilization and weed control accelerated the growth of
the immature trees and enabled their exploitation to start earlier and provide better yield. The
cattle component was not included in the original project design. At completion, production of
crossbred heifers gave an estimated B/C ratio of about 2.3/1 while production of crossbred beef
gave a lower B/C ration of about 1.3/1, because of low beef prices.
37.   These indicate that the project is clearly a financial success. A further indication is the
high demand for farm credit under the project and the unusually high on-time repayment of
smallholder credit, over 95%. Since there is little or no policy-induced price-distortion of these
crops in Vietnam, these results apply to both financial and economic benefit.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
38.      By strengthening and reorienting essential services, the ARP helped to create the
foundations for improving rural development nation-wide. A major part of the follow-on (IDA)
Agricultural Diversification Project was defined through the smallholder rubber production study
carried out under the ARP. At the same time, the Agricultural Diversification Project is
continuing some of the agricultural services developments, while experience from the
smallholder credit component has been improved upon and is being extended to the target
farmers under that project. Other donors are now also supporting activities addressed under the
ARP.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.      Six key lessons have emerged have emerged from the ARP:
(a) sound sector planning is an important precursor for successful rural development
projects, especially in countries that are in transition;
(b) it is essential to make provisions for ensuring continuation of improved support
services after project completion, and for their replication to non-project areas after
project completion;
(c) successful smallholder credit operations require an independent and viable financial
institution, qualified and experienced staff and management, close supervision, and
strong focus on timely repayment at all levels;
(d) close and flexible supervision and continuity in World Bank staffing are important for
ensuring successful project implementation;
(e) projects with highly diverse activities work best with a separate PCU for each
component; and



- 10-
(f) Government strong support and ownership of project's implementing agencies are
crucial for project success, while the ability to provide counterpart funds is critical for
timely implementation and sustenance of project activities.



- 11- 
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans and Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources; Missions



- 12 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible  NotApplicable
Macro policies                       D                         D ]  F
Sector policies                      Oli                                    11 1 
Financial objectives                             L]            K]           LI
Institutional development           [I            O       ]                 K O
Physical objectives                 [71           0I         D     0I
Poverty reduction                   [O] OI                                  [ I
Gender issues                         ]          (I            K O
Other social objectives              O           []            O            [
Environmental objectives             O]                        El O     
Public sector management             j]                       IO           [FI
Private sector development          [3I                        K]           K
Other (specify)                       I                                     E []
B  Project sustainabilit             Yikely      Unlikely    Uncertain
E!gNx~E
C. Bank performance              satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(0           (            (T) 
Identification                     O            71            0
Preparation assistance            []           ZI             0]
Appraisal                          Ol          [            [Ii
Supervision                        OI           O 



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title          Purpose          Year of Approval |       Status
Following operations:
Agriculture           Diversify and intensify     June 1998     Effective:
Diversification       agricultural production                   12/1998
thereby increase & stabilize              Completion:
farmers' incomes and rural                6/2004
employment
Irrigation Rehabilitation  Increase agricultural  April 1995    Effective:
production and farmer                     9/13/1995
incomes by rehabilitating                 Completion:
and completing 7 irrigation               12/31/2001
schemes.
Mekong Delta Water    Increase agricultural        May 1999     Effective:
production and facilitate                 10/29/1999
sustainable water resources               Completion:
12/31/2004
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned      Date Actual/Latest
Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                        07/1990
Preparation                                                       01/1991
Appraisal                                                         02/1993
Negotiations                                                      12/1993
Board presentation                           01/25/1994          01/25/1994
Signing                                      03/03/1994          03/03/1994
Effectiveness                                06/01/1994          06/09/1994
Project completion                           06/07/1997          06/30/1999
Loan closing                                 12/31/1997          06/30/1999



- 14-
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements (Cumulative Estimated and Actual)
(US$ million)
FY94       FY95      FY96   FY97   FY98  FY99   FY00
Appraisal estimate           5.0        35.0      75.0    96.0
Actual                        0         65.4      72.6    88.3    96.5   98.4   98.8
Actualas%ofestimate                     187        97      92      101    103    103
Date of final disbursement:   December 2, 1999 (applications received on October 27, 1999)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
No implementation indicators were defined in the Staff Appraisal Report.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No operation indicators were defined in the Staff Appraisal Report.



-15-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined at     Status         Impact of Study
I  appraisal/redefined
MARD Institutional   Preparation of proposals Deferred     Due to combination of
Re-organization     for re-organizing MARD                 three ministries to create
MARD (1993), GOV
declined to proceed with
study.
Survey of Effluent    Assessment of hazards    Completed   Direct influence on design
Treatment           and solutions to effluent              and operation of effluent
from rubber processing                treatment plants installed
factories.                            under project.
Smallholder Rubber   Assessment of          Two   studies Direct influence on design
Development         opportunities and       completed      of follow-on (IDA)
procedures for expanding              Agricultural
smallholder rubber                    Diversification Project.
production.
Standardization of  Faster preparation of   Completed      Results used in design of
Rubber Factory      tenders and factory                   factories.
Design              procurement, reduced
time and costs of
construction, easier
training of factory staff.



- 16-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)     Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign    Total      Local    Foreign    Total
costs     costs                costs  I  costs
Item
A. Agricultural Services
1. Extension Services                    6.5        4.2       10.7      5.95      3.96       9.91
2. Plant Protection                       1.5       2.1        3.6      1.04       1.57      2.61
3. Research Strengthening                 0.1       0.7        0.8      0.22       0.87      1.09
4. Sector Management                      0.1       0.6        0.7      0.08       0.77      0.85
Subtotal                               8.2       7.6       15.8      7.29       7.17     14.46
B. Rural Credit.
I. Line of Credit                       26.1       26.1      52.2      28.50     28.50      57.00
2. VBARD Strengthening                    0.4       2.4        2.8      0.28       2.00      2.28
Subtotal                              26.5      28.5       55.0     28.78      30.50     59.28
C. Rubber Rehabilitation
1. Rubber Plantations                    4.2       16.5      20.7       3.56      14.22     17.78
2. Rubber Factories                       2.8       9.3       12.1      3.00      10.06     13.06
3. Rubber Research Strengthening          0.0       0.4        0.4      0.03       0.41      0.44
4. Rubber Sector Development              0.4       2.3        2.7      0.35       2.15      2.50
Subtotal                               7.4       28.5      35.9       6.94     26.84      33.78
Total Project Costs                      42.1      64.6      106.7     43.01      64.51    107.52



- 17-
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)     Actuallatest estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total       Local      Foreign    Total
Costs    costs                 costs       costs
Source:
IDA                       33.7      62.3      96.0        35.7       63.1      98.8
MARD                       3.0      0.8       3.8         3.0         0.3       3.3
GRC                       4.1       0.2       4.3         3.3         0.1      3.4*
VBARD                      1.3      1.3       2.6         1.0         1.0      2.0*
Total                     42.1      64.6      106.7       43.0       64.5      107.5
*Estimates
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Activity                Financial Benefit                 ERR %
Cost Ratio
At Appraisal  lAt Completion  At Appraisal At Completion
A. Livestock Extension                    2.3/1,1.3/1                     > 100
B. Annual Crops            1.9/1,3.4/1      4.6/1                         > 100
C. Rubber Rehabilitation      3:1             -           52.0%          29.6%



- 18-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Coven  Present   fulfillment  fulfillment      Description of
Agreement   Section     ant   status       date         date             covenant                    Comments
type
Credit      2.02(b)    03       C                               Open Special Account       Covenant fulfilled.
6.01(a)    03      C                                Sign          Financing    Covenant fulfilled.
Agreement between MOF
and VBA
6.01(b)    05       C                               MAFI, GRC and VBA to    Covenant fulfilled.
establish PCUs.
Sched.     10      C                                MAFI and GRC to carry    Covenant fulfilled.
4, para                                             out  training  programs
I                                                satisfactory to IDA
Sched.     10     NC                                MAFI  to  carry  out    Study deferred, following the
4, para                                            institutional  study  with    reorganization of MARD.
2                                                 TOR and time schedule
satisfactory to IDA.
Sched.4    06       C      06/30/1996               GRC to carry out survey    Survey completed.
, para 4                                            of effluent treatment.
Sched.     06      CP      06/30/1997               Each Rubber Company to    Effluent treatment facilities were
4, para                                             upgrade effluent treatment    constructed  in  one  project
4                                                and   train  staff  in    financed new  rubber factory.
environmentally   sound    Training was completed in April
use    of   agricultural    1999.
chemicals.
2.07(a)    12      CP                               VBA    to   implement    Covenant partially met
institutional development
program
2.07(b)    02       C                               VBA to revise Operational    Covenant fulfilled.
Policy Manual
3.01(c)    01      C       12/31/1994               VBA to fumish audited    Covenant fulfilled.
financial statements for
each fiscal year.
Sched.     10      C                                VBA to carry out training    Covenant fulfilled.
3, para                                             program  satisfactory  to
2                                                IDA.
Status:
C = Complied with, CD = Compliance after delay, NC = Not complied with, CP= Complied with partially
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No lack of compliance was observed.



- 19-
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Processing Cycle     Planned              Actual
Weeks      US$      Weeks    US$
To Appraisal          n.a                 124.2    274.0
Appraisal           n.a.                 146.4    371.2
Negotiations through Board  n.a                  19.9      57.7
Approval
Supervision*          68                  168.1    475.5
Completion**           6                    14.0     60.0
TOTAL               74        n.a.       472.6   1,238.4
*Supervision began in FY1994
**As of June 1999, no further report was available under SAP - Estimates include participation of
FAO/CP



- 20-
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating     [
Stage of                   Number       D           Specialization   Implemen-       Develop-
project cycle     Month/        of        Days in                        tation         ment         Types of
year     persons       field                         status       objectives    problemsv
Appraisal             2193          6           16       E,A,F,S
Post Appraisal        7/93          2           18       E,F
Appraisal   through                                                           N/A            N/A           N/A
Board Approval
Supervision I        03/94          5           24       E,A,F,P,S             S             HS             L
Supervision 11       07/94          6           22       A,T(2),S(2),Ex        S             HS
Supervision III       11/94         2           20       A,S                   S             HS             A
Supervision IV       02/95          2            8       A,F                    S            HS            F,A
Supervision V        05/95          2           14       A,S                   S              S            F,A
Supervision VI       08/95          1            7       A                     S              S             T,P
Supervision VII       11/95         7           16       A,T(2),L,S(3)         S              S              F
Supervision VlII     02/96          1            8       A                      S             S             A
Supervision IX       05/96          2           15       A,T                    S             S             F,T
Supervision X         11/96         3           19       A,L,S                  S             S             A
Supervision XI       05/97          2           14       A,T                    S             S            F,A,T
Supervision XII      01/98          3            9       A,T,L                  S             S              F
Supervision XIII     09/98          2            7       A                      S             S              F
Supervision XIV       04/99         1           15       A                      S             S              F
Completion*           10/99         2           14       E, A
Completion*           02/00       1             14       E
TOTAL                               50          260
1/ Key to specialized staff skills: F = Financial;  S = Specialist (e.g. rubber); E = Economist; P = Procurement;
A   Agronomist; T = Training/Information; L = Livestock; Ex = Extension.
2/ Key to Performance Ratings:  HS = Highly Satisfactory; S = Satisfactory.
3/ Key to Types of Problems:     T = Technical; F = Financial; P = Procurement; L = Legal;
A = Administration.
* FAO/CP Mission



-21 -
Appendix A
VIETNAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2561-VN)
Implementation Completion Report Mission - February 2000
AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.       An FAO/Co-operative Programme mission by Mick Nightingale visited Vietnam
between February 18 and March 3, 2000 in order to complete drafting of an Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP). The ICR was initiated in
October 1999 by Messrs. Gallus Mukami and A. Venkataraman, working in team with project
colleagues from the Government of Vietnam (GOV).
2.        The mission reviewed project-related documents, visited some project areas and
discussed project actions with the personnel from the Project Co-ordination Units (PCUs) and
beneficiaries. The mission's work was also discussed in a meeting with the International Financial
Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance. The mission thanks colleagues from all components
for their professional collaboration and constructive support in drafting the ICR and for kind
hospitality during these missions. This aide memoire records the observations and suggestions from
the mission and reflects the comments made at a wrap-up meeting on March 2, 2000. The findings
are subject to confirmation by the World Bank, and it is requested that Government provide any
further comments to the World Bank by March 10, 2000.
Project Objectives
3.        The project objective was to increase rural incomes through a program focused on
smallholders, for improving support services, increasing credit resources, and rehabilitating rubber
production, as the basis for improving methods of agricultural production. The project had three main
components: (a) agricultural services, including livestock extension, crop protection, agricultural
research and sector management; (b) provision of smallholder credit; and (c) rehabilitation of rubber
production, through improving the condition of plantations and developing modern processing
factories. Assistance, particularly training for rehabilitating key rural institutions, was integral part of
all components. The ARP was implemented by three separate PCUs, from the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD), the Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural
Development (VBARD) and the General Rubber Corporation (GRC).
4.        Project identification was based on comprehensive sector analyses, the preparation
process was extremely thorough and the agreed developments clearly reflected the priorities of the
Government's Five-year Development Plan and the poverty reduction focus of the Country
Assistance Strategy.



- 22 -
Implementation Experience and Results
5.        Overall, the project is assessed as successful. Developments extended over 5 years,
compared with 3.5 years planned at appraisal, and operations were completed on June 30, 1999. The
success is particularly noteworthy because: (i) this was the first rural development project following
resumption of World Bank operations in Vietnam; and (ii) activities reached all regions. Agricultural
services developments were delayed due to adjustments in the sub-components, but were finalized in
1999 with a shortfall in some planned technical and institution developments. The smallholder credit
funds were fully disbursed in mid-1996, one year ahead of the development plan, but the planned
organisational developments were not completed. Most of the rubber factory developments were
completed in 1999; however, relative to appraisal target, achievement in plantation rehabilitation were
mixed.
6.        The PCUs of the three components were generally well managed, despite the shortfalls
in the planned developments. However, implementation was adversely affected by the lack of central
co-ordination. This might have been effectively provided by a small unit in MARD or at the Ministry
of Finance. At the same time, project operations might have been more successful if a joint steering
committee had been created to guide implementation. Procurements and accounting were generally
well managed, and progress reporting by each of the PCUs was excellent.
7.        The summary of the achievements of the ARP individual components is assessed as
follows.
Agricultural Services
8.        The basic objective of the agricultural services component was to strengthen and realign
MARD operations towards demand-driven support services. It included four sub-components for
which about 15% of the total project budget was allocated. Together, the activities under these
components operated in about half of the provinces and absorbed some 13% of actual expenditures.
a)        Livestock Extension. Originally intended to strengthen crop services, this component
was redesigned to support livestock extension services, with the emphasis on improving cattle
productivity through cross breeding with high productivity zebu breeds. These developments were
successfully implemented in 231 districts (in 27 provinces) where the majority of the national herd
are located. Some 5,200 extension agents and 25,500 farmers were trained, and an estimated 460,000
farm households benefited from breeding and other support services. All of these achievements
exceeded the initial plan and it is estimated that half of the national herd has benefited, directly and
indirectly, from these activities. The number of crossbred calves produced was nearly double the
target and average incremental weight gains were also higher than predicted.
b)        Plant Protection. This sub-component was focused on raising the efficiency of plant
production through promoting integrated pest management (IPM). A sound training program was
implemented in 309 districts of 35 target provinces. This included 2,284 farmer field schools (FFS)
and 360 demonstration sites, and trained some 68,520 key farmers. In addition to improving
efficiency of application of crop protection chemicals, training also helped to improve the use of
improved rice seeds and optimisation of fertiliser applications. Each of these achievements exceeded
the original plan and, as a result, rice production has increased, plant protection on rice crops over
much of the areas concerned is more efficient, cheaper and environmentally sound. In effect, it



- 23 -
appears that activities under this component were fulfilling broad extension needs. Nonetheless, they
were not extended to other crops (especially vegetables), as planned at appraisal.
c)        Agricultural Research. This sub-component was focused on supporting crop research at
three specialist research institutes. Project activities included transfer of new technologies to fanners
by demonstrating new rice varieties. This included distribution of some 2,000 tons of improved seeds
in 10 provinces and resulted in increased rice output. The equipment provided under the project also
had a significant impact on intensifying, accelerating and expanding trials of new varieties of rice.
However, similar actions for improving the potential for other crops, as specified in the project
description, was neglected.
d)        Sector Management.  This sub-component was focused on training key staff from
MARD and provincial and district offices, in sector and human resources management skills, as well
as policy planning and economic analysis. A comprehensive training program was implemented over
three years, with the objective of developing a cadre of planning officers at all administrative levels.
While the planning and management developments were realised, little was achieved in developing
policy planning capacities. The sub-component also included a study for preparing a plan for
reorienting the Ministry organization towards the market economy. However, this was postponed due
to the confusion surrounding the amalgamation of three ministries to form MARD - soon after project
initiation.
9.        The mission recommends that emphasis be given by MARD to assist the extension
divisions to expand and develop more audio-visual materials and training courses for disseminating
informnation on the new technologies to the provinces not reached by the ARD.
Smallholder Credit
10.       The basic objective of this component was to improve the availability of short and
medium-term credit to smallholders. It also aimed to strengthen VBARD's administrative capacity.
At the time of appraisal, it was estimated that 52% of project funds would be devoted to this
component. The actual disbursement was 55% and the fund was completely disbursed within two
years for short- and medium-term credit for the benefit of an estimated 750,000 farm households.
Short-term loans were used to purchase inputs for crop and livestock production, including hybrid
rice seeds. Medium-term loans were used to purchase improved livestock and farm machinery. The
rate of timely repayment has been consistently above 95%. Although there was no detailed
monitoring of project activities, it appears that the targeted smallholders were the main beneficiaries,
but that larger, progressive farmers were also favored. Project actions had some impact on
strengthening VBARD's management; however, little was achieved in improving institutional
restructuring and financial management.
11.       As part of the rubber rehabilitation component, VBARD acted as agent in handling short-
and long-term loans, totalling US$27.8 million for plantation rehabilitation and construction of rubber
processing factories and effluent treatment plants.
Rubber Rehabilitation
12.       This component actually utilised 32% of total project investments, in line with appraisal
predictions. It aimed to support three developments: (i) rehabilitating existing plantations; (ii)
constructing and modernizing rubber processing factories; and (iii) supporting research at the Rubber
Research Institute for Vietnam (RRIV). It also included funds for a comprehensive study of the



- 24 -
potentials for smallholder rubber production. Project provisions of fertilizers and crop protection
chemicals had some impact and yields of dry rubber increased by 200 - 400kg/ha in the areas
concerned. The planned application of stimulants was only partially achieved. The impact on rubber
research consisted of provision of equipment to modernize diagnostic capabilities, supply of research
materials, and training of research staff. These investments are enabling RRIV to reactivate research
into cultivation methods, handling and processing that should benefit long-terrn productivity of the
industry. The study of potential for smallholder rubber production was completed and this provided a
basis for the follow-up Agricultural Diversification Project (ADP).
13.      A large part of the planned factory development was achieved; five new factories were
built and one was rehabilitated. However, the increased processing capacity installed is only 48,000
tons, compared with 74,000 tons planned at appraisal, and unit costs were higher than anticipated.
Some improvement in rubber quality has been achieved from the new factories. GRC carried out a
study into treatment of effluent from rubber factories and one plant was installed and two others
initiated at project-financed sites. It is important that these installations be completed.
Institutional Development Achievements
14.       Each of the main components included provisions for raising efficiency of associated
institutions and making them more demand-driven. Ambitious training programs were mostly
realised and the associated technical assistance specialists (TA) were generally appreciated. The TA
clearly had an impact on technical agricultural and processing operations; however, they had less
effect on fundamental organization of the institutions concerned. The mission recommends that the
institutional aspects be tackled urgently, with emphasis on ensuring decentralization and focus on
farmers' needs, and policy planning.
15.       The PCUs provided progress reports on project activities. However, it would have been
valuable if MARD could have developed capacity, possibly by strengthening the MARD Inspection
Board. for monitoring and evaluating the physical developments achieved through the project. In the
absence of such data it is difficult to accurately assess project impact. Such objective monitoring and
evaluation of achievements should also assist in planning future developments. It is recommended
that a unit be established, to enable assessment of future developments, both for investment projects
and the National Plan.
Financial and Economic Achievements
16.       Project financing and estimated performance are summarized below.
a)        Project Financing. Based on appraisal data revised in early 1995, total project costs
were estimated at US$106.10 million. Actual expenditures are estimated at US$107.52 million, and
the costs of individual components were generally in line with the appraisal plan:



- 25 -
Summary of Planned and Actual Project Investments
(US$ 'million)
Component/       IDA        MARD          SRC        VBARD        Totals
Financier
Agricultural   12.01       3.29                                  15.30
Services       (11.13)    (3.33)                                (14.46)
Smallholder    52.47                                 2.61        55.08
Operations     (57.28)                              (2.00) *    (59.28)
Rubber         31.52           -        4.30            -        35.82
Rehabilitation   (30.78)               (3.00) *                 (33.78)
Totals        96.00       3.29        4.30          2.61       106.20
(99.19)    (3.33)       (3.00)       (2.00)      (107.52)
(Bracketed) figures denote actual expenditures, compared to appraisal estimates - as revised in March
1995.
* Estimates.
In US Dollar terms, the IDA contribution was 3.3% higher than planned, due to favorable trends in
the SDR rates, while the national contribution was 22.2% less than planned, despite adverse trends in
the Dong exchange rate against the US Dollar. Project activities were partly delayed each year, by
confusion in MOF regarding the release of funds for recurrent costs and investments for agricultural
services.
b)        Project Financial Management. The PCUs of the agricultural services and rubber
rehabilitation components maintained high accounting standards. Audit reports throughout project
implementation revealed inadequacy in the accounting and financial management of VBARD, due -
in part - to national banking regulations. Audit reports were completed to a high standard, although
some were late.
c)        Financial and Economic Performance. Due to the lack of monitored details, it
impossible to accurately assess the financial and economic impact of project activities. However,
preliminary cost benefit analyses indicate that smallholder production of rice and beef under the
project have an incremental return of around 2:1. The economic return from rubber rehabilitation
activities is likely to be less than the level predicted at appraisal (52%), firstly, because of the
incomplete actions for plantation rehabilitation; and second, because fewer processing factories have
been developed than planned and at higher unit costs. However, these developments are still likely to
be economically sound.
Project Sustainability
17.       Project Continuation.  The enthusiasm  of beneficiaries and commitment of the
departmental management teams concerned should augur well for continued success of project
developments. The experiences gained through staff and farmers' training and equipment financed
under the project provided a essential foundation for continuing project actions. The MARD has
made specific request to the government for additional funds to continue project activities. However,
since the Credit closing, growth in project activities under MARD and provision of loans to
smallholders have slowed down, due to limitation of recurrent budget resources and credit funds.
This means that there is a significant risk that the development potential will not be fully realized in



- 26 -
the provinces assisted under the project. Furthermore, in the absence of specific financing, there will
be little opportunity for extending and replicating developments in the remaining provinces. This
situation could be partially overcome by charging beneficiaries the full cost of services provided. The
assessment of incremental income indicates that beneficiaries should be able to meet these costs, and
the mission recommends that MARD considers this possibility.
18.       Social Impact. The underlying theme of the project was to assist smallholders and help
to reduce poverty. For the livestock extension and crop protection sub-components, this objective
appears to have been met and smallholders are the main beneficiaries of project actions, as intended.
To a large extent, this is probably also true for the credit operations.  However, the rubber
rehabilitation component had no direct effect on smallholders.
19.       Environmental Impact.  Project activities are having a positive effect on the
environment. Direct benefits from the crop protection sub component include significant reduction
in the spectrum and quantity of crop protection chemicals and fertilisers applied to rice. In addition,
the monitoring of pesticide usage and the existence of residue analyses and quarantine services help
to assure environmental safeguards for the future. The effluent treatment plants installed at rubber
treatment factories provide a good model for standard installations, to bring all factories in line with
government environmental protection regulations. The mission urges GRC to ensure that the
installation of these plants is completed at all sites financed under the project and then extended to all
factories in the country.
Bank and Borrower Performance
20.       The performance of both the Bank and MARD was highly satisfactory during the
preparation and appraisal stages, and implementation was well managed on all sides. However,
opportunities were lost due to some shortfall in physical and institutional developments, compared to
appraisal plans. This includes the indecision over the preparation of a medium-term plan for
reorganising MARD. It is hoped that this study will be undertaken at an early date, in order to ensure
better efficiency of the Ministry's operations at headquarters, provincial and district levels. It is also
important to develop specific extension packages for other products apart from rice and beef, and to
strengthen links with research. The mission urges the directors of the component and sub-component
departments to build on the successes and take actions to address the weaknesses in project
performance.
Assessment of Outcome and Future Operations
21.       It is assessed that project achievements were extremely positive, especially in stimulating
crop and livestock development, despite the fact that some of the objectives were not met in full.
Sound sector analysis provided a strong foundation for project preparation and appraisal. This was
endorsed by the formation of three highly committed and effective PCUs. Close and consistent Bank
supervision contributed significantly to the project result. However, implementation would probably
have been more successful if there had been a small central co-ordination team. Also, progress
review would have been more effective if a clear implementation plan had been prepared at appraisal,
together with agreements on precise institution developments to be achieved. It is important to ensure
that project actions are sustained and replicated in other suitable areas. In order to mitigate the risk
that insufficient operating budget will prevent sustainability, the possibility of levying charges for the
services should be considered and the remaining direct subsidies should be phased out.



- 27 -
22.       Studies carried out under the project into the potentials for smallholder rubber production
provided the framework for follow-up actions and, in 1999, GOV and the Bank signed an Credit
Agreement for the ADP. The MARD has already recognized the need to strengthen project
management and a central PCU has been created and an inter-ministry steering committee has been
appointed for the ADP. Experience from the ARP also contributed directly to the formnulation of
extension and credit activities for the new project. In a broader context, since completion of the
ARP, the International Relations Division in MARD is being developed in order to ensure better
collaboration between funding agencies.
FAO Co-operative Programme
March 2, 2000



- 28-
Appendix B
VIETNAM
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2561-VN
June, 2000
Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Development



- 29 -
VIETNAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2561-VN)
PREFACE
The Development Credit Agreement - Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
(Cr.2561-VN) was signed on March 3, 1994 between S.R. Vietnam and IDA and was approved
by the State President of Vietnam in the Decision No.194Q-CTN dated May 30, 1994. The total
Project's budget is US$106.2 million, in which IDA credit is SDR69.4 million (US$96 million
equivalent) and US$10.2 million is from the Vietnamese counterpart fund. The DCA was made
effective on June 1, 1994. The final closing date of the Credit is on June 30, 1999 after two times
of extension from the original of December 31, 1997.
The preparation of this ICR is based on the ICRs submitted by Project
Implementing Agencies: the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD), the
General Rubber Corporation (GRC) and the Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural
Development (VBARD). The ICR is prepared by Mr.Do Dinh Thuan, Deputy Head of the Project
Coordination Unit of MARD and reviewed by Prof. Ngo The Dan, Vice Minister of MARD.



- 30-
VIETNAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2561-VN)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT DESIGN AND OBJECTIVES
1.          The Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP) is the first project in Agricultural
Sector of Vietnam funded by IDA, following the resumption of the World Bank activities in
Vietnam. The project was well identified and designed through comprehensive sector analyses. It
took a long time of preparation, from 1990 to 1993, undertaken by the World Bank, with the
assistance of UNDP and FAO/CP and in close collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development (formely the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries - MAFI).
2.          The objectives of the ARP are "to assist the Government of Vietnam  in
Agricultural Rehabilitation by: improving agricultural support services for smallholders;
increasing the availability of credit for smallholders and rubber companies; rehabilitating rubber
production; and strengthening key rural institutions. The general objective of the ARP is to raise
rural income, contributing to poverty reduction strategy of the Government.
3.          The project consists of three main components (or parts): (i) Agricultural services,
including livestock extension, plant protection, agricultural research and sector management; (ii)
Provision of rural credit; and (iii) Rehabilitation of rubber production. Strengthening of key rural
institutions was integral part of all components. To implement the project and coordinate all
activities under each component, three separate Project Coordination Units (PCUs) were
established within MARD, GRC and VBARD.
4.          Project fund allocation for each component: (i) Agricultural services, total fund:
UD$15.295 million, in which IDA's fund: US$12.005 million, GOV counterpart: fund: US$3.29
million; (ii) Rural credit, total fund: US$55.028 million, in which IDA's fund: US$55.028
million, VBARD's fund: US$2.16 million; (iii) Rubber rehabilitation, total fund: US$35.821, in
which IDA's fund: US$31.254 million, GRC's fund: US$4.297 million.
5.          The project fully met the Government's strategy of rehabilitation of agricultural
production and poverty reduction and contributed to promote the transition process of the rural
economy to the market-oriented one. The decision to amend the sud-component from crop
extension to livestock extension under the agricultural services' component was fully reasonable.
Twice extension of the project implementation from 3.5 years initially to 5 years appeared to be
suitable for the real conditions of Vietnam, especially for long term crop (rubber) and ruminant
animal (cattle) development. The rather diverse objectives and activities of the project and the
unfamiliarity with the IDA's operational procedures and regulations of the implementing and
management agencies caused some implementation delays.



- 31 -
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.          Most of the project objectives were achieved and exceeded the initial plan in some
sub-components: (i) increased beef cattle output and crop yield thanks to the provision of
effective support services and credit; (ii) significant rehabilitation of rubber plantations and
increase of capacity and modernization of rubber processing facilities; (iii) timely provision of
credit to smallholders with a significant proportion of medium-term credit; (iv) strengthening
agricultural targeted research, improvement of training staff and key farmers, promoting
agricultural extension services, transferring of new technologies on high performed rice varieties,
crop protection and cattle breeding; (v) initiation of improvements to overall management.
Agricultural Services Component
7.         In spite of this component absorbed only less than 13% of the total project
expenditures, but it played a very important role in providing agricultural support services to
smallholders and covered almost poor provinces in Vietnam (51 among 61 provinces). It was
implemented by a PCU and six Sub-PCUs of four sub-components within MARD: Livestock
Extension, Plant Protection, three Agricultural Research Institutes, and Agricultural Sector
Management. Due to the initial changes of the Extension sub-component, project provinces of
Plant Protection sub-component, the merge of three former Ministries to MARD, administrative
difficulties and the release of funds delayed the completion of this component by one year.
8.          Livestock Extension Sub-Component.    This sub-component was aimed at
improving beef cattle productivity through cross breeding indigenous cows with high
productivity Zebu breeds. Emphasis is also made in improvement of animal nutrition and animal
health, training staff and farmers, providing field and laboratory equipment and materials for the
improvement of extension services. All objectives and activities were successfully implemented
in 27 provinces, including some 2,000 communes in 231 districts where the majority of the cattle
herd of the country is located. About 460,000 fartn households benefited from the sub-component
in extension services and other activities. Nearly 500,000 local cows were crossbred, resulting
360,000 crossbreeding calves, more than double the target. The growth rate of crossbreeding calf
was 30-40% higher than that of local breed and its selling value was 30%-40% higher. About
5,200 extension agents, 2,365 inseminators and 25,500 key farmers were trained. A great deal of
field and training equipment, lab. equipment, semen processing line, liquid nitrogen plant, means
of transport and travel, elite cattle semen and embryos....procured, contributed significantly to
improving capacity and quality of livestock extension services. All of these achievements
exceeded initial targets in the SAR plan.
9.          Plant Protection Sub-Component. This  Sub-Component  was  aimed  at
extending and promoting integrated pest management (IPM) program focusing mainly on rice
and vegetables. It is also to strengthen plant protection in general, and plant quarantine. All the
activities of this Sub-Component were successfully implemented in 35 provinces, including 309
districts and towns. IPM program was implemented through a field training program with 2,300
farner field schools (FFS), against the target of 1,600 FFS. About 68,500 key farmers benefited
from these FFS. A total of 360 demonstration sites on pest and disease resistant rice varieties and
IPM application were implemented. A comprehensive staff training program was developed,
including 35 training courses covering 9 different specialized subjects, providing knowledge
information system and skill to about 1,700 staff under Plant Protection sub-sector. Sixteen



- 32 -
existing regional Plant Quarantine sub-Departments benefited from the Sub-component through
providing international technical assistance, staff training and equipment provision. Under the
Sub-component, by application of IPM, the rice yield increased, while pesticide use was reduced
by one half, resulting cash savings and profit increase to farmers, and decrease of environment
risks. FFS helped to improved rice farming practices, raise the efficiency of fertilizer use, while
demonstrations helped to encourage farners using pest and disease resistant rice varieties.
The objectives achieved of this sub-component exceeded the SAR plan.
10.         Agricultural Research Sub-Component.   This was a small sub-component,
focusing on assistance of funding, facilities and materials, strengthening capacity of three
agricultural research institutes. The agricultural research institutes focused their efforts on
conducting selected fundamental research, applying modern research methods in studying,
selecting and producing new rice varieties with high productivity, high quality, and high
resistance to unfavorable conditions (deep water lodging, drought, acidity, acid-sulfate). Rice
hybridization technology was also studied. More than 15,000 various rice lines were collected
and studied. Ten new rice varieties were selected and nationally certified, 35 varieties were
passed zoning adaptation, and 21 promising varieties were allowed to be widely tested... were
main achievements. Through demonstration sites located in ten provinces, new technologies were
transferred with the provision of new rice varieties seeds that contributed significantly to increase
rice yield. Equipment provided under the project had a great impact on intensifying, accelerating
research and expanding technologies transferring of new rice varieties.
11.         Sector Management Sub-Component       The main objectives of this sub-
component are to focus on training key staff, manager from MARD headquarters and provincial
and district offices. A comprehensive training program was successfully implemented which
focused on improving sector and human resources management skills, in line with national
economic renovation and administration reform. More than 1,500 key staffs and managers at all
administrative levels were trained. Three short-term training courses on teaching method
provided knowledge and skill to 75 teachers from two management schools, which were re-
equipped with helpful teaching facilities. Initially, the sub-component included an institutional
study. However, the study was postponed due to the reorganization of MARD, following the
merging of three former ministries. Later, this study was canceled, and inserted into the second
project - Agricultural Diversification Project (Cr.3099-VN).
Rural Credit Component
12.         This component aimed at providing short-term and medium-term credit to small
farm households, and supporting institutional development for the bank through training and
technical assistance. A line of credit, totaling US$52 million, was established in 1994 and fully
disbursed by mid-1996. This line of credit provided short-term and medium-term loans to nearly
750,000 farm households in 13 selected provinces ( initially 10) through sub-projects on crop
production, livestock development, aquaculture, afforestation, agricultural product processing,
and other support services.
13.         Ninety nine percent (99%) of the loans was channeled to farm households through
direct lending, so the rate of timely repayment of these loans was high, about 95%, and the funds



- 33 -
are now recycled. The implementation of the Institutional Development Plan (IDP) impacted
substantially to the financial and institutional capacity of VBARD. The Training program, the
initial operation of the Management Information System helped VBARD to improve its
efficiency in terms of operating costs over average outstanding loan portfolio. As part of rubber
rehabilitation component, VBARD acted as agent in handling short- and medium-term loans,
totaling US$27.8 million. It needs, however, further improvement of institutional development,
financial and risk management, long-term loan lending method and procedures.
Rubber Rehabilitation Component
14.         The objectives of this component aimed at supporting the government's strategy
for rehabilitating the rubber sector, mainly public sector in the south-east region. Project
financing was focused on improving rubber plantation management, increasing capacity and
modernizing processing facilities, strengthening rubber research, and upgrading management and
technical skills. The component was managed and coordinated by a PCU established within GRC
and implemented by ten State Rubber Companies (SRCs) in the region. The Rubber Research
Institute of Vietnam (RRIV) was responsible for rubber research operations.
15.         Relatively to the component target, achievements in rubber plantation
rehabilitation were positive. The credit line provided was necessary and timely for all SRCs to
rehabilitate their plantations through the procurement fertilizers, herbicides, crop protection
chemicals and yield stimulant. By changing in farming practices, the use of herbicide, crop
protection chemicals, yield stimulant reduced to 50%, 45% and 35% respectively, comparing
with prediction. The impact of the project was to reduce the immature period of rubber from 8
years as predicted to 6.5 - 7 years, and the average yield increased by about 30%, gradually from
880 kg/ha of dry latex to 1,150 kg/ha during 1994 to 1998. Total incremental rubber production
from 1994 to 1998 is estimated around 50,000 tons. This played an important role in helping
GRC and individual SRCs to recover financial equilibrium.
15.         The rubber factory developments: five new factories were constructed as planned,
and mostly completed in 1999, after some delays. There is only one old factory was rehabilitated
compared to four planned, since the cost of rehabilitation was considered too high and might
affected to the SRCs' benefits. These new and rehabilitated factories can generate an incremental
capacity of 48,000 tons, behind the target of 74,000 tons envisaged at appraisal. The quality of
processed latex increased rapidly, the first grade rubber under the Vietnam Standard Grading
(TCVN) increased to over 80%. GRC carried out a study on the treatment of effluent from rubber
factories, and six rubber effluent treatment plants were installed, and two others initiated for old
factories.
16.        Rubber research and diagnostic capabilities of RRIV were upgraded through
providing research staff training, technical assistance and equipment. Research programs on
breeding, farming system and cultivation method, and taping system were developed. A study on
potential of smallholder rubber production was completed that provided a basis for the follow-on
IDA financed Agricultural Diversification Project.



- 34-
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING THE PROJECT
17.         Project implementation was satisfactory in all objectives, although it took 18
months longer than scheduled. Only the rural credit component was completed one year ahead of
schedule. The implementation of the agricultural services component was completed by end-
1998, one year behind schedule, due to some initial delays caused by administrative difficulties
and annual release of counterpart funds. The rubber rehabilitation component was completed by
mid-1999, one and half year after the original closing date, due to delays in procurement and
construction of new rubber factories and effluent treatment plants.
18.         The project implementation progress and achievements were affected by series of
factors. On the positive side, these included: (i) the renovation process, agricultural development
strategy, incentives policies stimulated smallholders to increase production and product quality;
(ii) comprehensive sector analysis provided a solid basis for selecting development priorities, in
addition with a thorough project preparation and design and identifying project objectives; (iii)
the strong support and keen participation of farmers to the project; (iv) strong commitment to the
project activities by the Government, the great efforts and regular management of MARD,
VBARD, GRC and their PCUs' staff; (v) flexible approach made by the World Bank in amending
components, activities and resolving problems during implementation; and (vi) Bank staff
continuity, timely and efficient assistance of Bank staff, especially that of the Task Manager.
19.         On the negative side, affecting factors included: (i) the unfamiliarity  with
IDA/WB's operational regulations and procedures of the management and implementing
agencies; (ii) Difficulties in releasing counterpart funds under the agricultural services component
which delayed implementation progress; (iii) inadequate in quantity, less experienced PCU's staff
and staff at provincial level; (iv) complex procurement process for rubber factories delayed the
completion of new factory construction.
20.         Project costs andfinancing. The total project costs were estimated at US$107.5
million, slightly higher than appraisal estimates of US$106.2 million. It might due to some cost
adjustments during project implementation: incremental fund for rural credit component, rubber
rehabilitation component for higher costs of new factories. Counterpart financing to project
activities was, in general, satisfactory. There is no mechanism of fund advance that caused
difficulties in implementing field activities under the agricultural services component.
Furthermore, delayed and inadequate releasing of counterpart funds each year by MOF affected
the implementation progress of the agricultural services component. Disbursement progress was
also satisfactory.
21.         Procurement The procurement of goods, equipment and consultant services was
highly satisfactory, despite the unfamiliarity of implementing agencies with the Bank
procurement procedures in some first years of project period.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.         The project objectives and achievements were fully met the demand of
smallholders and fitted GOV's strategies and policies. It played an important role in promoting
these policies and providing effective tools for increasing production in the poor areas. Therefore,



- 35 -
achievements of the project would be continued and replicated in the project areas and other
areas. The follow-on Agricultural Diversification Project plays the role of sustaining the previous
project in several aspects.
23.         The objectives of the project are still remaining priorities of the Government. The
GOV has approved to increase investment for some national programs in Agriculture and rural
development, namely national program on crop seed and animal breed, program of restructuring
and strengthening agricultural research system...These will make the project sustainable and
further developed. The sustainability of the credit operation will be ensured by strong and
experienced VBARD.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
24.         The Bank's performance is assessed as very satisfactory throughout project
preparation, appraisal and during implementation. The Bank's performance represented in sound
project preparation, timely recommendation appropriate approach to problem solving, a close
relationship with concerned agencies during implementation, appropriate use of skill-mix during
supervision, and continuity in task management. While there no exception in Bank operational
procedures, but in fact, the Bank applied flexible approach to solve problem raised during
implementation. The high responsibility and effective assistance of the Task Manager is highly
appreciated.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.         The Borrower's performance is assessed as satisfactory. The project benefited
from strong GOV's ownership. During the project period, the GOV promulgated some important
decrees, decisions relating to ODA project management, implementation, financial management...
which, step by step facilitated project implementation. However, inadequacy in financial
procedures, guidelines, caused many difficulties to project implementing agencies. Some
administrative difficulties, delays in releasing counterpart funds, complicity in approval unit costs
for recurrent funds... affected the progress of implementation, especially for the agricultural
services component. The three PCUs operated relatively efficient, particularly with regard to
planning, budgeting, procurement, disbursement and reporting. Project funds were strictly
managed. Because GOV agencies were unfamiliar with the Bank's operational procedures, so
they often relied on the Bank's guidance in assessing implementation progress and initiating
correcting measures. The project might have benefited from the establishment of a joint steering
committee to coordinate the three components and to guide implementation.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
26.         Physical Outcome. The overall project outcome is assessed as satisfactory.
Achievements under livestock extension and plant protection activities exceeded SAR targets.
The rural credit component was fully disbursed within two years and has maintained a timely
recovery rate of 95%. Rubber rehabilitation program was successfully implemented, five crumb
processing factories were constructed and effluent treatment plants were established. Agricultural
research facilities were re-equipped, training programs was successfully implemented.



- 36-
27.         Institutional Outcome.     Sector management has had positive outcome, while
institutional developments fell behind of expectations. Training programs was completed in all
three components and initial institutional improvements will create a basis for future
consolidation. The institutional strengthening for VBARD achieved substantial results in
fostering VBARD's financial and institutional performance.
28.         Social Outcome.    The basic objectives of raising rural incomes in the poorest
rural communities have been largely achieved through activities under agricultural services and
the rural credit components. With regard to farmer awareness, the project contributed in changing
the habit of extensive livestock production to intensive one by applying cattle breeding, changing
of crop protection chemicals use by applying IPM.
29.         Environmental Outcome.  It is apparent that the project had a positive
environmental impact. It demonstrated in the appropriate use of inorganic fertilizers and the
significant reduction of crop protection chemicals use for rubber, and the dramatic reduction of
using pesticides for rice through the application IPM in the project areas. The introduction of
effluent treatment plants in rubber processing factories has had an important impact on
environmental protection.
30.         Financial and economic Outcome. For annual crop, particularly for irrigated rice
in the Red River delta, the benefit cost ratio was estimated to be about 4.6. For farmers applying
IPM, the benefit cost ratio was higher due to savings of cash expenditure for pesticides and its
application. The benefit cost ratio of crossbred heifers was estimated about 2.3, while crossbred
beef B/C ratio was 1.3.
31.          The internal rate of return on rubber rehabilitation was estimated at 30%, lower
than expected at appraisal (52%) due to the lower price assumptions for rubber.
32.          These above mentioned  indicate that the project has an apparent financial
viability. The high demand of farmers for credit under the project and the high rate of on-time
repayment of credit also indicate the financial success of the project.
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
33.          Some key lessons could be withdrawn from the project, these are:
(i) Correctly identify priorities of development, well define project   objectives,
well prepare and design the project are crucial factors ensuring project success;
(ii) It requires an independent and viable financial institution, qualified and
experienced staff to manage smallholder credit, and close supervision and strong focus on on-
time repayment;
(iii) Project with highly diverse activities worked best with a separate PCU owing
adequate capacity for each component under a joint steering committee's guidance;



- 37 -
(iv) Close relationship with Borrower's management agencies, close and flexible
supervision and continuity in the Bank staffing are important to ensure successful project
implementation;
(v) Government strong support and ownership of project implementing agencies
are crucial for project success.



- 38-
Appendix C
VIETNAM
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2561-VN)
Summary of Financial and Economic Results
Financial Results
1.        The extension and crop protection operations under this project are best suited to
financial analysis. The reasons for farmers' eager adoption of both crossbreeding cattle and
improved rice production are clearly demonstrated by financial benefit/cost budgets of these
developments. The analysis for rice production is 4.6:1, compared to the SAR estimate of 1.9 -
3.4: 1.0. It is assessed that project activities directly influenced this result, not only by introducing
a sound regime of integrated pest management (IPM), but also through the related extension-
oriented activities stimulating the diffusion of hybrid rice seed and encouraging balanced
applications of fertilizers. The similar analysis for production of crossbred heifers shows a
benefit/cost ratio of 2.3:1 (no SAR comparison - changed component), while analysis for
crossbred beef production is more marginal (1.3:1). There are strong indications that the benefits
from cattle crossbreeding are already extending to dairy production, where increased milk yields
can be expected to produce significant financial and economic benefits. On current meat prices,
beef production is likely to remain an ancillary activity yielding some incremental benefit.
Economic Results
2.        Plant Protection. There is no record of the areas affected or incremental quantities of
rice produced through project actions. Similarly, it is not possible to differentiate project
activities from autonomous growth that would have occurred as a result of GOV policy to
liberalize agriculture. In fact, no ERR calculation was prepared for food crop production at
appraisal. In order to try to assess the economic impact from the crop protection sub-component,
an estimate has been based on information regarding the number of farmer-leaders trained.
Assuming that, on average, each trainee would influence 100 farmers, and taking a representative
area of rice cultivation per farmer as 0.25 ha, it is assumed that 168,800 ha would have benefited
from the project actions. From reports and discussions, it appears that rice yields have increased
in the project area by 1.5 tons to total 6.5 tons per crop (some double cropping is practised) in
recent years. On this basis, the economic impact of project activities on rice production indicates
an ERR in excess of 100% (Appendix Table). However, this is not only due to the impact of crop
protection activities, but also the inter-linked benefits from hybrid rice seed and balanced
fertilizer treatments. Therefore, the benefits directly accruing to project activities would be a part
of this, but still very significant.
3.        Livestock Extension. The livestock extension sub-component was substituted for
crop extension activities included in the SAR, and there was no economic evaluation at that time.
In view of the dispersed nature of the crossbreeding activities, no herd projection is possible.
There are some records of the numbers of cows involved and the increased liveweight of
crossbred cattle (compared to indigenous breeds) is significant. However, in the absence of clear
information on the location of the cattle concerned or the associated rate of extension to



- 39-
secondary beneficiaries through natural insemination, it is not possible to formulate a
representative model. But, as there are no major economic distortions involved, it is reasonable
to assume that the financial analyses can be taken as indicative of a high ERR over the medium-
long-term, similar to that for rice production.
4.        Smallholder Credit. It appears that a majority of the credit funds provided under the
project were applied to purchase inputs for the production of the major crops and for maintaining
crossbred cattle, as well as investments in small-scale machinery and crossbred cattle. Assuming
that this was the case, then the retums to this component would reflect the estimated benefits for
rice and crossbred cattle.  This favourable result is emphasised by the exceptional on-time
repayment rates, constantly exceeding 95%; as a result of which, the credit funds are being
recycled. Furthermore, the result implies that GOV's grant of 50% of the total line of credit will
be economically justified, while VBARD should readily be able to reimburse the remaining 50%
to MOF.
5.        Rubber Rehabilitation. In the absence of detailed information on areas of rubber
plantation affected by the project, estimates have been made of the impact of rubber rehabilitation
activities. The quantity of fertilizer purchased under the project was in line with SAR estimates.
However, herbicide was about 50% of the predicted level, mainly due to the improvement in the
maintenance of immature crops through the systematic establishment of cover crop in the
interrows, and the continued use of manual weeding in place of herbicides. Due to improved
fertilization and weed control, the growth rate of the immature rubber trees was increased,
enabling the SRCs to start exploiting the trees in the sixth year after planting, one year earlier
than anticipated at appraisal.
6.        The actual application of yield stimulant was only 35% of the appraisal estimate,
resulting from reduced purchase of the chemical (Ethephon) from project funds, due to
controversy over the concentration of the chemical supplied. However, it is reported that some
SRCs purchased supplies of the preferred concentration of chemical independently of the project.
Therefore, this activity will also have a lower-than-predicted effect on the economic impact.
Investments in processing factories under the project resulted in incremental installed capacity of
48,000 tons, 66% of the SAR plan. At the same time, average unit investment costs for factories
were higher than planned.
7.        GRC records indicate that average yields increased by about 30% from 880 kg/ha to
1,150 kg/ha during the project period, from 1994 to 1998. Based on the application of fertilizers
and herbicides to about 40,000 ha of immature areas, and the partial use of yield stimulant, the
total incremental rubber production attributed to the project from 1994 to 1998 is estimated
around 50,000 tons, compared to appraisal estimates of 75,000 tons.
8.        Taking the assumptions from the different actions under this component into account,
it is estimated (Appendix Table) that the ERR for this comporent is 30%, which is less than
predicted at appraisal (52%). The difference is mainly due to the lower rubber price forecasts, as
well as the lower incremental production during the project period. The relatively high returns
are due to the considerable sunk costs in plantation rehabilitation where improved fertilization
and weed control of established immature trees result in the earlier start of exploitation and higher
yields.



Vietnam
Agricultural Rdlabatatlon Project
Analysis o the impact of the Rubier Rehabllation Component
A. APplcation of herbitcdesfeutilizem to Immature Plantatone
1. Yields (kglha)
ppoais estimates        ICR eimtes
Wfthout project                 Wlh projet             With project           Increm. yields    Aver. inc. yield s
sois   red     grey                   red    grey             red    grey            red    grey
Y6        0         0                     0       0             300      0              300      0              150
Y7        0         0                    400      0             500    300              500    300             400
YB        200       0                    700    400              700    S00             S00    500              500
Y9       400      200                    900    700             900    700              500    500             S00
Y10       700      400                   1,100    900           1,100    900            400    500              450
Y11      1,000     700                   1,300   1,100          1,300   1,100            300    400             350
Y12      1,100    1,000                  1,300   1,300          1,300   1,300            200    300             250
Y13ornwds   1,100    1,100                  1,300   1,300          1,300   1,300           200    200              200
at Assuming 50% red soils and 50% grey soils in every year of planting.
2. Incremental productIon (tons)
Plantingyear    Area(ha)         Coeft.       1       2       3      4       5       6       7       8       9      10      11      12      13      14      15      16      17     18      19      20
Appratsst  Actual    yield incr.    1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013
Estmates
1987     10,874     0           0          0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0
1988     9,210    10,400      0.25        390    1,040   1,300   1,300   1,170    910    650    520    520    520    520    520    520    520    520    520    520    520    520    520
1989     8,485    9,600        0.5         0     720    1,920   2,400   2,400   2,160   1,680   1,200   960    960    960    960    960    960          960    960    960    960    960    960           1
1990      7,811    8,8W       0.75         0      0      990    2,640   3,300   3,300   2,970   2,310   1,650   1,320   1,320   1,320   1.320   1,320   1,320   1,320   1,320   1,320   1,320   1,320    ,g,
1991     5,366    6,100         1          0      0       0      915    2,440   3,050   3,050   2,745   2,135   1,525   1,220   1,220   1,220   1,220   1,220   1,220   1,220   1,220   1,220   1,220    o
1992     4,500    5,100         1          0      0       0       0      765   2,040   2,550   2,550   2,295   1,785   1,275   1.020   1,020   1,020   1,020   1,020   1,020   1,020   1,020   1,020
Total    40.246   40,000                  390    1,760   4,210   7,255  10,075  11,460  10,900  9,325   7,560   6,110   5,296   5,040   6,040   5,040   5,040   5,040   5,040   5040   5,040   5,040
B. Yleld s1tmulation on mature plantations
1. Yield Increases (kg/ha)
1994      100
1995      200
1996      200
2. Incremental production (tons)
Planting year   Area (ha)        Coeff.       1       2       3
Appraisal Act. cone.  yield incr.    1994   1995   1996
Estimates by project
Pnre1960  11,600   4,200              1  420    840    840
1961.1975  7,715    3,500              1  350    700    700
1976-1987 106,529   42,300             1  4,230   8,460   8,460
Total 125,84   50,000                 5,000  10,000  10,000
C. Total Incremental productlon ftons)
1      2       3       4       5       6       7      8       9       10      11     12      13      14      15      16      17      18      19      20
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011    2012   2013
5,390  11,760  14,210  7,255  10,075  11,460  10,900  9,325   7,560   6,110   5,295   5,040   5,040   5,040   5,040   5,040   5,040   5,040   5,040   5,040



Vietnam
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
Analysis of the Impact of the Rubber Rehabilitation Component
D. Economic analvysi
1. Incremental economic revenues
Rubber export parity price (USS per ton)
1994    1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005    2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011    2012   2013
Actual & Projeded Prices Fob US$1990 (rckg) a/&b/   102.2   132.5   122.3   94.1    69.3   60.7   66.5   68.9   71.1   72.0   72.9    738    73.8    73.6    73.6   73.4    73.4   73.4   73.4   73.4
Actual & Projected Prices Fob US$1999 (ctkg) c  105.8   137.2   126.7   97.4   71.8   62.9   68.9   71.4   73.6   74.6   75.5   76.4   76.4    76.2    76.2    76.0   76.0   76.0   76.0   76.0
Quality discounted Fob price ad/              90.0   116.6   107.7   82.8   61.0   53.4   58.5   60.6   62.6   63.4   64.2   65.0   65.0    64.8   64.8   64.6   64.6   64.6   64.6   64.6
Transport, loading, port charges, etc. (cents/kg)  4
Companygateeconomicprice(1999US$)$/ton        859.6  1126.3  1036.6  788.3  570.0  494.3  545.4  566.5  585.9  593.8  601.7  609.6   609.6   607.9  607.9  606.1   606.1   606.1  606.1  606.1
atWorld Bank, Global Commodity Markets, November 1998, actual rubber prices 1994-1997, in Constant US$1990
bl World Bank, Global Commodity Markets, January 2000, rubber price actuais 1998-1999 & projections in Constant US$1990
cJ World Bank, Global Commodity Markets, January 2000, MUV index 100 for 19S0, 103.56 for 1999.
dt Quality discount:    0,15
1      2       3       4       5       6       7      8       9       10      11     12       13     14      15      16      17      18      19      20
lncrem.economicrevenuee(1999US$ '000)        1994    1998   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008    2009   2010   2011   2012   2013
From incremental production                 4,633  13,246  14,729  5,719   5,743   5,665   5,945   5,283   4,429   3,628   3,186   3,073   3,073   3,064   3,064   3,055   3,055   3,055   3,055   3,055
From better grades at                                                                       2,181   2,266   2,343   2,375   2,407   2,439   2,439   2,431   2,431   2,424   2,424   2,424   2,424   2,424
Total                                       4,633  13,246  14,729  6,719   5,743   6,665   8,126   7,849   6,773   6,003   5,593   8,511   5,511   5,496   5,496   8,479   5,479   8,479   5,479   5,479
at 10% Increase in rubber price on 40,000 tons produced in new and rehabilitated factories.
2. Incremental economic costs
1      2       3       4       5       6
Actual Investment coats (US$ '000)           1994   1995    1996   1997   1998   1999   Total   % FE
Rubber plantations (agr-chem.nequipment)    4,734   4,734   4,734                          14,202  100%
Rubber factories construction and rehab.                    5,020   6,627   2,090   1,788  15,525   80% /
State factories contribution                         750    750    750    750               3,000    0%0
Rubbersectordevelopment                       35     592    1,051    602     166     55    2,501   90%
Total                                       4,769   6,076   11,555  7,979   3,006   1,643  35,228   82%
FE costs (US$ 000)                          4,766   5,267   9,696   5,843   1,821   1,480  28,873
Adjustment to 1999 US$ a/                    0.94    0.87    0.91    0.96    0.99     1
FEcosts(1999US$000)                        4,480   4,582   8,823   5,610   1,803   1,480
Local costs (US$ 000)                         4      809    1,859   2,136   1,185    363    6,355
Average exchange rate(VND/US$)               9,029   11,008  11,030  11,543  13,235  13,941
Adjustmentto 1999 VND b/                     1.43    1.23    1.16    1.12    1.04     1
Localcosts (1999 US$000)                      3      786    1,706   1,980   1,170    363
Total Investment coats (1999US$ 00)          4,483   5,368   10,530  7,590   2,873   1,843
at World Bank, Global Commodity Markets, MUV Index.
bi Consumer Price Index.
1      2       3       4       5       6       7      8       9       10      11      12      13     14      15      16      17      18      19      20
1994    1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005    2006    2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013
Increm. recurrnt costs (199 US$S000)        2,186   4,704   5,684   2,902   4,030   4,684   4,360   3,730   3,024   2,444   2,118   2,016   2,016   2,016   2,016   2,016   2,016   2,016   2,016   2,016
3. Net economic benefts (1999 USS '000)
1      2       3       4       5       6       7      8       9       10      11      12      13     14      15      16       17     18      19      20
1994    1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005    2006    2007   2008    2009    2010   2011   2012   2013
-2,005   3,174  .1,484  -4,773  -1,260   -762   3,766   3,819   3,749   3,559   3,475   3,496   3,495   3,479   3,479   3,463   3,463   3,463   3,463   3,463
ERR: 29.6%



Vietnam
Agricultural Rehabiliation Project
Analysis of the Impact of the Plant Protection Sub-Component
A, Incrnsenfat Wopduotlon of paddv
Yield increase (tonsiha)        1.5
1      2       3       4
Areas concerned (ha)                    1995   1995   1997  1998 onwrds
New areas                                      16.600  59,300  92,900
Cumtlative                               0    16,600  75,900 168,900
1      2       3       4       5       6       7      8       9       10     11      12      13      14      15      16      17      18      19      20     Total
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011    2012   2013   2014
Incremental productIon of paddy (tone)   0    24,900 113,850 253,200 293,200 293,200 2Q3,200 253,200 253,200 253,200 253,200 253,200 253,200 253,200 263,200 293,200 253,200 253,200 253,200 293,200 4,443,190
B. Economic analvsis
1. Incnrrental economic revenues
Rice export parity price (USS per ton)
Fob 1990 US$ a/                           264
Fob 199 US$ b/                            273
Quality discounted Fob prica c/           232
Transport, loading, port charges, etc.     40
Processing cost                            20
Paddy/rice conversion factor               0.6
Parddy farm gate economic price (1999 US$)  103
a/World Bank, Global Commodity Markets, October 1999, milled rice price projection for 2005.
b/ World Bank, Global Commodity Markets, October 1999, MUV index 100 for 1990, 103.56 for 1999.
c/ Quality discount  0.15
1      2       3       4       5       6       7      8       9       10      11     12      13      14      15      19      17      18      19      20
1995   1996   1997   1999   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2009   2009   2010    2011    2012   2013   2014
Incorem economic ravanues (1999 US$ 000)   0   2,570  11,753  26,138  26,138  26,138  26,138  26,138  26,138  26,138  26,138  26,138  26,138  26,138  26,138  26,138  26,138  26,138  36,138  26,138
2. Incrmental economic coats
1      2       3       4
f,Q
1995   1996   1997   1998   Total   % FE
Actus  project investmnnt cose (USS 000)   313    1,018   1,516    25    2,872   60%
FEcosts(USS000)                        18S    611    910       15    1,723
Adjustment to 1999 USS a/               0.87    0.91    0.96    0.99
FE costs (1999 US$ 000)                 163    556    873       15
Local costs (US$ 000)                   125    407    506       10    1,149            1999
Average exchange rate (VNDIUS$)        11,008  11,030  11,543  13,235                 13,941
Adjustment to 1999 VND b/               123    1 16    1.12    1.04
Local costs (1999 US$ 000)              122    374    562       10
Total Investment costs (1999 US$000)   295    930    1,436    25
a/ World Bank, Global Commodity Markets, MUV index.
bI Consumer Price Index.
1      2       3       4       5       6       7      8       9       10      11     12      13      14      15      16      17      18      19      20
1995   1996   1997   1999   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009    2010   2011    2012   2013   2014
Increm. costs at farm level (1999 USS000)    0  730    3,340   7,427   7,427   7,427   7,427   7,427   7,427   7,427   7,427   7,427   7,427   7,427   7,427   7,427   7,427   7,427   7,427   7,427
3. Net economic benefits (1999 US$S000)
1      2       3       4       5       6       7      8       9       10     11      12      13      14      15      16      17      18      19      20
1995   1996   1997    1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011    2012    2013   2014
-285    910    6,978  18,686  18,711  18,711  18,711  18,711  18,711  18,711  18,711  18,711  18,711  18,711  18,711  18,711  18,711  18,711  18,711  18,711
ERR:  667%



MAP SECTION






l02~~~~~~~             IS~~~~01                         10-                              SE011
*            Choo ~~~~~~~-i                                                                          C     IN
-~~~               A   ~~~~   ~~' ~G.
J   ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                                                                                                  I~~~~~
B~'
~~~   e    HoLong~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
Sopooog  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ciaa1
201~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(bs
L-, PI b.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
A    EXTENSION COMPONENTS
LAO    P~~~~~~~~~~OPLFS     27     ~      ~     ~     ~     #         'oDoto 
DEMo  O CRA47 CB REPT        BLIC
18 HoogYon  48 TP HoCh~~~~~~~~~~~~~M,oI~TC
19 Ho, Doo~~~~~~~~g  49 BoR,oV~~~~~~~~ogToo~1.
20 Ho, THong  59 Long   70 ThoOo,                                             -25 55  701W  125 lXXKoIoo,olorn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
21 HooBoln  SI TeoGoong                                                                     I       0   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~g~~
22 HoNono  52 Song                                                                         I      I~~~~~2
V5noD,  rNAMio, 
24AGRE,ICU54TURALn
26REoHABIL50TATONS                                                                                                    00,       Onodo
PROJECT                                                                                      37~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 no    0  o 
27  PLnANT5 PROTETO G,o                                                                                       o/ih-onooooyrn    n 
2   CHoOMP     CONENTS                                                                                        ooooonnonoI
RES2 RC INon9 Del    TE9 SooSnoo
PRO 6NC  CAPTL                                    C       A                 00                                109 D-



