Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2561 VN
               (Agricultural Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                  SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated March 3, 1994
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2561 VN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 3, 1994, between  SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
VIET NAM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B) Parts B and C.1 of the Project will be carried out by Viet
Nam Bank for Agriculture (VBA) with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to VBA
a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
Page  2
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and VBA;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a) "Statute" means the Statute of the Viet Nam Bank for
Agriculture, promulgated under Decision No.250/QD, November 11, 1992
of the Governor of the State Bank of Viet Nam.
      (b) "Dong Viet Nam" means the currency of the Borrower.
      (c) "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and VBA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes any schedules to the Financing Agreement.
      (d) "GRC" means the Viet Nam General Rubber Company, a state-
owned entity established and operating pursuant to Decree No.32-
HDBT, March 27, 1989, and any successor thereto.
      (e) "Institutional Development Program" means the
institutional development program of actions and measures to
facilitate VBA's transition toward commercial banking activities,
adopted by VBA on December 2, 1993, and approved by the State Bank
of Viet Nam on December 3, 1993, as the same may be revised from
time to time with the prior concurrence of the Association.
      (f) "MAFI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Food Industry and any successor thereto.
      (g) "Operations Policy Manual" means the operations policy
manual on policies and procedures for VBA's credit operations
approved by VBA with the prior concurrence of the Association in
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of the Project Agreement.
      (h) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture (VBA), of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement.
      (i) "Rubber Companies" means, collectively, the following
state enterprises responsible for rubber production: Tay Ninh, Phu
Rieng, Phuoc Hoa, Dong Nai, Dau Tieng, Binh Long, Dong Phu, Loc
Ninh, Tan Bien,  and "Rubber Company" means any one of the Rubber
Companies.
      (j) "Rubber Rehabilitation Sub-loan" means a loan made or
proposed to be made by VBA to a Rubber Company for a Rubber
Rehabilitation Sub-Project, funded out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to VBA under the Financing Agreement.
      (k) "Smallholder Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by VBA to a farmer for a Smallholder Sub-Project, funded in
part out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to VBA under
the Financing Agreement.
Page  3
      (l) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
      (m) "Sub-borrower" means a farmer for a Smallholder Sub-loan
and a Rubber Company for a Rubber Rehabilitation Sub-loan.
      (n) "Sub-loan" means a Rubber Rehabilitation Sub-loan or a
Smallholder Sub-loan.
      (o) "Rubber Rehabilitation Sub-project" means a specific
development project under Part C.1 of the Project to be carried out
by a Rubber Company utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan.
      (p) "Smallholder Sub-project" means a specific development
project under Part B.1 of the Project to be carried out by a farmer
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan.
      (q) "VBA" means Viet Nam Bank for Agriculture, a state-owned
commercial bank, established and operating under the Statute and the
Borrower's Ordinance on Banks, Credit Co-operatives and Financial
Companies, dated May 23, 1990, the Circular of the Government Office
No. 76 T/B dated March 18, 1993, and the Decision of the State Bank
of Viet Nam No. 66/QD-NH5 dated March 27, 1993.
      (r) "Project Provinces" means the Borrower's provinces set
forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixty nine million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 69,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be paid) by VBA on account of
withdrawals made by a Sub-borrower under a Sub-loan to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Rubber
Rehabilitation Sub-project or Smallholder Sub-Project, as the case
may be, in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account
is requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for Parts A, B.2 and C.2 of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
Page  4
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15
commencing on June 15, 2004 and ending December 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on December 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Page  5
Agreement, and, to this end:
            (i)    shall carry out Part A of the Project through
                   MAFI and cause GRC to carry out Part C.2 of the
                   Project, all with due diligence and efficiency
                   and in conformity with appropriate
                   administrative and financial practices and shall
                   provide,  and cause GRC to provide, promptly as
                   needed, the funds, facilities, services and
                   other resources required for such Parts of the
                   Project; and
            (ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of
                   its other obligations under the Development
                   Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause VBA
                   to perform all its obligations set forth in the
                   Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be
                   taken all action, including the provision of
                   funds, facilities, services and other resources,
                   necessary or appropriate to enable VBA to
                   perform such obligations, and shall not take or
                   permit to be taken any action which would
                   prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through MAFI, carry out
Part A of the Project, and shall cause GRC to carry out Part C.2 of
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Parts B and C.l of the Project available to VBA under
a financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
VBA, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association, which shall include:
      (i)   the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Parts B.1 and
            B.2 of the Project shall be made available to VBA in
            Dong Viet Nam for purposes of making Smallholder Sub-
            loans, and carrying out the strengthening and
            institutional development of VBA, respectively;
            provided, however, that fifty percent of such proceeds
            made available to VBA shall be converted into VBA's
            equity in the name of the Borrower, and the balance
            shall be relent to VBA in Dong Viet Nam under the
            following terms and conditions: (A) interest payable by
            VBA on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a variable rate per annum adjusted
            annually, satisfactory to the Association, which rate
            shall include the service charge payable by the Borrower
            under Section 2.05 of this Agreement, plus a margin to
            cover the foreign exchange risk and an onlending fee;
            (B) repayment of principle by VBA within 20 years,
            including five years of grace; (C) foreign exchange risk
            to be borne by the Borrower; and (D) commitment charges
            payable by VBA on the principal amount not yet withdrawn
            from time to time at the rate payable by the Borrower
            under Section 2.04 (a) of this Agreement; and
      (ii)  the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part C.1 of the
            Project shall be made available to VBA, as a financial
            agent of the Borrower, for financing the Rubber
            Rehabilitation Sub-projects under the Rubber
            Rehabilitation Sub-loans.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Financing
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  6
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
Parts A and C.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06
and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and
maintenance, respectively) in respect of Parts B and C.1 of the
Project shall be carried out by VBA pursuant to Section 2.04 of the
Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A and C.2 of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than nine
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
Page  7
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   VBA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that VBA will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Statute shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the operations or the financial condition of VBA or its
ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of VBA or for the suspension of its operations.
      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of GRC or for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a) the Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and VBA; and
      (b) the Project Coordination Units shall have been established
by MAFI, GRC and VBA in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement and paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to the Project
Agreement, respectively.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
      (a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
Page  8
ratified by VBA, and is legally binding upon VBA in accordance with
its terms; and
      (b) that the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and VBA and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and VBA in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Governor of the State Bank of Viet Nam of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            State Bank of Viet Nam
            49 Le Thai To Street
            Hanoi, S. R. of Viet Nam
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   VIETBANK                      412248 NHTWVT
                   Hanoi
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Hanoi, Socialist Republic of
Viet Nam, as of the day and year first above written.
                         SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
                         By /s/ Le Van Chau
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  9
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                                Credit              % of
                               Allocated        Expenditures
                             (Expressed in          to be
      Category              SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)   Goods for Parts A          2,170,000      100% of foreign
      and C.2 of the Project                    expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 90 %
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2)   Smallholder Sub-loans     36,110,000      95%
(3)   Rubber Rehabilitation     18,060,000
      Sub-loans                                 100%
(4)   Consultants'               3,610,000      100%
      services and
      training
(5)   Operating expenses
      under Part A of the
      Project:                   3,610,000
      incurred through
      December 31, 1994                         80%
      incurred January 1, 1995
      through December 31, 1995                 60%
      incurred January 1, 1996
      through December 31, 1996                 40%
(6)   Unallocated                5,840,000
                                 ---------
         TOTAL                  69,400,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c) the term "operating expenses under Part A of the Project"
means the expenditures incurred by agricultural extension, research
and plant protection staff carrying out activities under Part A of
the Project, for: (i) operation and maintenance of Project vehicles
and equipment; (ii) staff travel allowances; (iii) contracts for
temporary field workers; (iv) field trials and demonstrations; and
(v) information dissemination, all calculated in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Page  10
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) Categories (2) and (3),
unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the procedures
and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule
1 to the Project Agreement; (b) Category (2) until the Operations
Policy Manual shall have been adopted in accordance with Section
2.07 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (c) except that the Borrower
and the Association shall otherwise agree, on account of
expenditures by a Sub-borrower in respect of a Sub-loan subject to
the Association's approval, unless such expenditures shall have been
made not more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received, in respect of such Sub-loan, the
application and information required by paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule
1 to the Project Agreement or, in respect of free-limit Sub-loan,
not more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Association
shall have received, in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan, the
request and information required by paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods, works and services not
exceeding $200,000 equivalent, under such term and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
agricultural rehabilitation, by improving agricultural support
services for smallholders, increasing the availability of credit for
smallholders and Rubber Companies, strengthening key agricultural
sector institutions and supporting rubber production.
      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A: Agricultural Services
1.    Strengthening and extending agricultural extension services in
the Project Provinces, through addition of extension field workers,
provision of training for extension staff and farmers, and equipment
for national and local extension offices.
2.    Improving plant protection in the Project Provinces, including
introducing and expanding the use of integrated pest management
techniques, through provision of laboratory and field equipment and
vehicles and training for farmers and plant protection staff.
3.    Strengthening the capacity for crop research at the O Mon Rice
Research Institute, the Food Crops Research Institute and the
National Institute of Agricultural Science, through provision of
research and other equipment and materials and training, study tours
and consultants' services.
4.    Strengthening the institutional capacities of MAFI and
undertaking a study of its organizational structure and studies on
other topics such as the smallholder rubber sector, through
provision of training and consultants' services.
Part B: Rural Credit
1.    Financing to farmers of farm inputs, including fertilizers,
seeds, insecticides, animal feed and small farm equipment, through
short-term loans, and of on-farm investments, including agricultural
machinery, breeders for livestock production, and maintenance of
small irrigation, through medium-term loans.
2.    Strengthening the institutional development of VBA, including
Page  11
provision of staff training and consultants' services.
Part C: Rubber Rehabilitation
1.    Financing of the Rubber Companies' rubber plantations
rehabilitation programs, including agricultural inputs and
equipment, construction and equipping of new latex processing
factories and rehabilitation of existing latex processing factories.
2.    Supporting the institutional development of GRC and the Rubber
Research Institute of Viet Nam, through provision of consultants'
services and in-country and external training in such areas as
rubber cultivation, marketing and processing, standardization of
design and effluent treatment, accounting and finance, and provision
of office, laboratory and field equipment and materials, and
vehicles.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                               ANNEX
             Project Provinces by Implementing Agency
                                  AGENCY
                           MAFI                  VBA
                   Extension   Plant Protection  Priority
Province
Ha Noi                   x           x           x
Ha Tay                   x           x           x
Hai Hung                 x           x           x
Thai Binh                            x
Nam Ha                               x           x
Ninh Binh                x           x
Hai Phong                            x
Ha Bac                               x
Vinh Phu                 x           x           x
Hoa Binh                 x
Bac Thai                 x
Yen Bai                  x
Lang Son                 x
Quang Ninh               x
Than Hoa                 x           x
Nghe An                              x
Ha Tinh                  x           x
Thua Tien, Hue                       x           x
Quang Nam - Da Nang                  x
Quang Ngai               x           x
Binh Dinh                            x
Phu Yen                  x           x
Khanh Hoa                            x           x
Quang Binh               x
Lam Dong                 x
Gia Lai                  x
Long An                  x           x
Dong Thap                            x
An Giang                             x
Tien Giang                           x
Ben Tre                              x
Vinh Long                            x
Tra Vinh                             x
Can Tho                              x
Soc Trang                x           x
Kien Giang                           x
Minh Hai                 x           x
Ho Chi Minh City         x           x           x
Tay Ninh                 x
Page  12
Song Be                  x
Dac Lac                                          x
Kon Tum                                          x
Son La
Total                    23          30          10
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
                                for
                  Parts A and C.2 of the Project
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a) For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred
to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when
contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of
delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components
and the other to the local currency component of the bid price.
Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
      (b) In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Socialist
Republic of Viet Nam may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
      Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $5,200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association except that chemicals,
materials and equipment for Parts A.3 and C.2 of the Project
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $600,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
Page  13
      (a)   With respect to the first contract for the procurement
of goods and for each subsequent contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist in carrying out Parts A and C.2 of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.  For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall ensure that all training under Parts A and
C.2 of the Project shall be carried out in accordance with a program
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    The Borrower shall ensure that all studies under Part A.4 of
the Project shall be carried out in accordance with terms of
reference and time schedule satisfactory to the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall establish within MAFI, and cause GRC to
establish, and thereafter maintain, project coordinating units for
carrying out Parts A and C.2 of the Project, respectively, with
composition, funding and responsibilities acceptable to the
Association, and with competent staff in adequate numbers.
4.    The Borrower shall: (a) cause GRC to carry out a survey of
effluent treatment in each Rubber Company, by June 30, 1996, in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association;
and (b) cause each of the Rubber Companies to, by June 30, 1997: (i)
upgrade its effluent treatment facilities to international standards
acceptable to the Association, and (ii) complete a program
acceptable to the Association for training staff in environmentally
Page  14
sound use of agricultural chemicals.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2),
(3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
      (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                   each such request, the Association shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the
                   Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                   Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid
                   out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
Page  15
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocatedto the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
     Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6. (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
