Document of
The World Bank                 i               O
rlLw cop%y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1 990b-TUIN
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
June 2, 1978
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CU,RMCY gQUIVA4L S
Currency Unit    =       Dinar (D)
D 1               =      US$2.3
D 1,000                  US$2,300
D 1,000,000       =      US$2,300,000
US$1              =      D 0.435
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Systeni                   British/U.S. System
1 meter (m)               =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                 0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)            0.386 sq. miles (mi2)
1 hectare (ha)            =      2.47  acres (ac)
1 litre (1)               =      0.2200 Imperial gallons (I gal)
0.2642 U.S. gallonLs (gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =      2,205 pounds (lb)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BNT        - Banque Nationalede Tunisie (Tunisian National Bank)
CLCM       - Caisse Locale de Credit Mutuel (Local Credit Cooperative)
CRDA       - Commissariat Regional  de Developpement Agricole
(Regional Agricultural Development Commission)
DPA        - Direction de la Production Agricole
(Agricultural Production Department)
DPAEP      - Direction du Plan, de l'Analyse Economique et des Projets
(Planning, Economic Analysis and Projects Department)
DPC        - Direction des Ponts et Chaussees (Highway Department)
FOSDA      - Fond Special pour le Developpement Agricole (Special Fund for
Agricultural Development)
MA          - Ministare de l'Agriculture (Ministry of Agriculture)
MP          - Ministere du Plan (Ministry of Planning)
MPW        - Ministere de l'Equipement (Ministry of Public Works)
MTC         - Ministere des Transports et des Communications (Ministry of
Transport and Communications)
OC         - Office des Cereales (Cereal Board)
OMIVAN     - Office de Mise en Valeur de Nebhana (Nebhana Development Board)
OMVVM-PPI  - Office de la Mise en Valeur de la Vallee de la Medjerda et des
Perimetres Publics Irrigues (Medjerda Valley and Public
Irrigation Districts Development Board)
SCM        - Societe de Caution Mutuelle (Mutual Guarantee Association)
SONAM      - Societe Nationale de Motoculture (National Mechanized Farming
Company)
STIL       - Socigte Tunisienne d'Industries Laitiares (Tunisian Dairy
Industry Company)
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
APPRAISAL OF
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    TRANSPORTATION AND AGRICULTURE .....................                       1
A.    General  .......................................                     1
B.    Transportation ................................                      1
C.    Agriculture  ...................................                     3
D.    Previous Projects  .............................                     5
II.    RURAL ROADS AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT ....               .......        6
A.   Road Network ..................................                       6
B.    Road Administration ...........................                      7
C.    Agricultural Institutions  .....             ................        9
D.    Agricultural Credit  ...........................                    11
E.    Land Tenure ...................................                     12
III.    PROJECT AREAS AND APPROACH .........................                      13
A.    Project Areas  .................................                    13
B.    Approach  ........         ..............................           15
IV.    THE PROJECT ........................................                      18
A.    Objectives  ....................................                    18
B.    Description  ...................................                    18
C.    Sub-Project Review ............................                     22
D.    Costs and Financing ...........................                     23
E.    Implementation ................................                     26
F.    Disbursements  .................................                    31
G.    Environmental Impact  ..........................                    32
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in October!
November 1977, composed of Messrs. H.L. Beenhakker (Economist), P. Long
(Engineer), K. Vencatachellum (Loan Officer), G. Ludwig (Engineering
Consultant), P. Blom (Agricultural Consultant) and H. de Meel (Agricultural
Consultant).
This document ha a re tricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ................................       33
A.  Sector Lending Approach .....      ..................  33
B.  Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ....    ...........   34
C.  Marketing   .....................................     34
D.  Economic  Analysis   .............................    34
E.  Project  Risks   ........    . ..........I....35
F.  Government's Capabilities ....      .................  36
G.  Technical Assistance ..........................       36
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....  .........    37
ANNEXES
1.  Projects Previously Financed by the Bank
2.  Principal Engineering Criteria
3.  Terms and Conditions of Loans to Farmers
4.   Key Project Data
5.  Example of Application of Methodology
6.  Sample Farm Budget
7.  Cost of Means of Transport
8.  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
World Bank 18504 Organization of the Ministry of Public Works and
Highway Department
World Bank 18505 Project Implementation Schedule
World Bank 18872  Project Implementation Organization
MAPS
IBRD 13318  Project Areas
IBRD 13319  Project Roads and Zones of Influence in Le Kef
IBRD 13320  Project Roads and Zones of Influence in Siliana
IBRD 13321  Project Roads and Zones of Influence in West Kairouan
IBRD 13322  Project Roads and Zones of Influence in East Kairouan
IBRD 13323  Project Roads and Zones of Influence in South Kairouan and
Sidi-Bouzid
IBRD 13324  Project Roads in Nabeul
IBRD 13325  Project Roads in Kasserine
IBRD 13326  Project Roads in East Sidi Bouzid and Gafsa
IBRD 13327  Project Roads in West Sidi Bouzid and Gafsa
IBRD 13328  Project Roads in Gabes



I. TRANSPORTATION AND AGRICULTURE
A.   General
1.01      From an environmental view, Tunisia can be divided into three parts.
Northern Tunisia, with an average rainfall of more than 350 mm and favorable
soil conditions, produces rainfed crops, in particular wheat and barley; it
is the most developed part with a dense road system. In Central Tunisia, the
average rainfall is 200-350 mm and the dominant outputs are: rainfed tree
crops, mainly olives and almonds; cereal production, but at lower yields than
in the north; and sheep grazing. In Southern Tunisia the rainfall drops below
200 mm and agriculture is therefore limited to sheep raising and the produc-
tion of some date and vegetable crops in the oases. Agriculture is best
served by the road network in the northern part; going south the network
becomes less dense and the road standards become lower.
1.02      The population of about 5.9 million (1977) is heavily concentrated
in Northern Tunisia and in the coastal plain. There is significant migration
into the cities. The average annual population growth rate between 1966 and
1975 was about 2.3%. The rate of natural increase is about 2.6%.
1.03      During 1973-76, the period covered by the Fourth Development Plan,
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew in real terms at an average annual rate of
7.6%, resulting in a 1976 per capita GDP of about US$840 (Atlas basis).
During the same period, the annual growth rate of the basic trend in agricul-
tural production is estimated at 5.5%. Road traffic in terms of passenger-km
and ton-km is estimated to have grown at an annual rate of 7% and 6%, respec-
tively.
1.04      The Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) aims to maintain the growth
momentum; its average annual target growth rate of GDP is 7.6% per year.  In
particular, the new plan aims: (i) to create sufficient additional employment
to absorb the incremental labor force; (ii) to achieve self-sufficiency in
major food products by 1981; (iii) to raise the standard of living; and (iv)
to achieve social stability through wage and price harmonization and income
policies. The strategy to achieve these aims is to emphasize the creation of
employment through investment in industry and agriculture. The volume of
agricultural output is planned to increase at an average annual rate of 4.4%.
To achieve this target, the authorities recognize that agricultural infra-
structure, including rural roads must be improved and appropriate policies
introduced to strengthen the agricultural sector.
B.   Transportation
1.05      A detailed description of the transportation sector is contained in
Bank Reports No. 930-TUN of December 1975 and No. 1539-TUN of May 1977. Since
modes other than road transport have insignificant direct impact on rural road
development, no reference to them is made in this report.



1.06      The performance of road transport is critical for the agricultural
sector, because it is the dominant carrier of its outputs and inputs, as well
as other supplies and services for the rural population. With the public
investments made in the road transport companies during the Fourth Plan and
those planned for the Fifth Plan, together with the expansion of the private
sector, the vehicle fleet is not expected to be a constraint on the expected
growth of the agricultural sector.
1.07      Although certain sections are below standard for traffic require-
ments, the main highway network is generally adequate in coverage and length.
The First and Second Highway Projects were designed to improve the most criti-
cal sections. The rural roads, which are defined as roads outside urban areas
carrying predominantly agriculturally-related traffic irrespective of their
classification, are, however, in poor condition and an impediment to agricul-
tural development. They are essentially dry weather facilities which become
impassable during the rains. A large number of these roads have deteriorated
over the past two decades due to lack of proper maintenance. Improvement of
the rural road network now has high priority, as explained in more detail in
Chapter II.
Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
1.08      The Government exercises considerable control over road transport
and the road network, especially through the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC) and the Ministry of Public Works (MPW). Public road
transport (freight and passengers) is provided by large state companies while
private operators are limited to the transport of goods by light truck (pay-
load capacity below 3.5 tons), or the transport of persons by passenger car.
Upon the Bank's recommendation, regulations restricting owners of light trucks
to the transport of only their own goods have recently been abolished. Other-
wise, progress with simplification of regulations has been slow. Improvements
proposed by the MTC, but still awaiting Cabinet approval, include the aboli-
tion of zonal restrictions for transport by truck, and of distance restric-
tions for the use of trailers. The Bank plans to continue the dialogue on
these matters with the Government. -
1.09      Government-controlled transportation tariffs reflect the condition
of specific roads. Therefore, savings in vehicle operating costs due to road
improvements are passed on to the farmers, other producers, consumers and
passengers in the form of reduced tariffs.
1.10      The detailed planning, administration, construction and maintenance
of the classified roads (which constitute about 50% of the rural roads) and,
since 1974, also of the unclassified roads (which include the other 50% of
rural  oads) is the responsibility of the MPW, in particular the Highway Depart-
ment 'Lirection des Ponts et Chaussees, DPC) in the MPW. Until 1974, the
Ministry of Agriculture (MA) was responsible for the unclassified roads. The
MTC is responsible for the planning and overall administration of investments
in state transport enterprises. Both MTC and MPW suffer from a shortage of
qualified and experienced staff. To help fill this gap, they have contracted
she services of consultants, with Bank financing under the Second Highway
Project, to update the 1968 Transport Plan and in particular to prepare a
`ilot rural roads improvement project which is the subject of this report.



- 3 -
1.11       The Fifth Development Plan envisages investments in the road network
and road transport companies of about D 126 million and D 79 million, respec-
tively, in current prices. These investments represent 5% of total planned
investments and an increase of 59% in average annual investments over the
actual investments during the Fourth Plan. The planned investments are
adequate to cover high priority needs, including an initial program for
improving the rural roads.
1.12       The strategy of Bank lending for highways in previous years was to
improve: (i) the existing infrastructure; (ii) project preparation and imple-
mentation; and (iii) transport policies and the institutional framework. The
results of these efforts are described in Annex 1. The main thrust of future
lending would be to: (i) further improve the maintenance of the road network;
(ii) consolidate progress in institutional development and the formulation of
policies; and (iii) prepare and implement a comprehensive and continuing
program for the development and maintenance of the rural road network.
C.   Agriculture
1.13       A number of Bank reports deal in detail with the Tunisian agri-
cultural sector including No. 1133-TUN of October 1976, No. 1215-TUN and
No. 1539-TUN both of May 1977. Therefore, the present report covers only
those sector features which are relevant to the proposed project.
1.14       The total area suitable for agriculture is about 9.0 million ha,
of which 5.3 million ha are classified as cultivable; the remainder comprises
range land for extensive sheep grazing, low yielding forests and desert. The
cropped area is about 3.1 million ha (about 0.5 ha per capita), including 1.3
million ha under perennial crops. Only 110,000 ha are irrigated and devoted
mainly to the production of tomatoes, peppers, potatoes, melons and citrus.
1.15       Agriculture is an important economic sector; in 1976 it absorbed
about 45% of the labor force, constituted 21% of GDP, and provided 13% of
total value of exports, primarily olive oil, citrus, and other fruits and
vegetables. Imports of agricultural products, mainly cereals, edible oils,
dairy products, livestock and sugar, represented 12% of the total value of
imports in 1976.
1.16       Agricultural production was disrupted during the 1960s, when the
authorities attempted to organize the sector into cooperatives. This experi-
ment was abandoned in 1969 and, since then, about 4.5 million ha have been
returned to private farming. During 1973-76, the value of agricultural pro-
duction grew rapidly (para. 1.03) partly as a result of extremely good weather
and favorable terms of trade for olive oil, but also due to internal factors
such as Government policies supporting the resurgence of the private sector.
1.17       At present, the main constraints on the growth of agricultural pro-
duction are: the poor condition of the rural roads; inadequate supply of
credit, especially to low-income farmers; inefficiencies in extension services;
poor soil conservation; and insufficient development of water resources. The



- 4 -
potential benefits from Government efforts to alleviate the above constraints
other than roads have often not materialized because farmers were unable to
market their products and obtain necessary inputs on time due to the poor road
conditions.
Agricultural Policy, Planning and Coordination
1.18      The Government controls the ex-farm gate prices and marketing mar-
gins of the major agricultural products, partly to protect the cost of living
and partly to provide the necessary incentives to farmers. Prices of the main
foodstuffs are fixed by the Ministry of Economy, in practice once every year,
upon request from and upon consultation with the MA and the National Farmers
Association. During the previous plan period, domestic agricultural prices,
including those of foodstuffs at the retail level, rose less rapidly than the
prices of other items because the favorable weather and other conditions
raised production and thereby compensated the farmers at least partly for the
decline in prices. However, the authorities are aware that such favorable
conditions are unlikely to repeat themselves and overall farm prices are
expected to increase by 5% annually during the present plan period.
1.19      The Government also exerts a large influence on agriculture through
its credit policies, extension and other services in support of the farmers.
Encouraging efforts have been made in recent years to make these policies and
measures more responsive and more efficient to meet the need of the farmers,
but additional efforts need to be made during the current Development Plan.
1.20      The MA is principally responsible for the detailed planning, admin-
istration and implementation of agricultural policies, support measures, and
projects such as irrigation works, soil conservation, the provision of farm
equipment, extension services and agricultural credit. At the national level,
the Planning Department of the MA (Direction du Plan, de l'Analyse Economique
et des Projets, DPAEP) is mainly responsible for preparing the agricultural
plan and the collection of data and research needed for project preparation.
At the provincial level, the MA is represented by Regional Field Divisions
(Commissariats Regionaux de Developpement Agricole, CRDAs).
1.21      The Fifth Development Plan aims to intensify previous efforts to
remedy the principal deficiencies in agricultural development (para. 1.17).
During 1977-81, total agricultural investments are planned to reach D 500
million in current prices, representing 12% of total plan investments and
an increase of 103% in the average of annual investments over actual invest-
ments during the Fourth Plan.
1.22      Except for more emphasis on water resource projects, the Bank's
strategy in Tunisia's agricultural sector remains the same as in the past;
namely, to improve the use of fertilizers and seeds, to improve credit poli-
cies and institutions, to improve extension services, and to improve irriga-
tion programs and water development policies.



-5-
D.   Previous Projects
1.23      The Bank has lent a total of US$92.0 million equivalent for seven
transport projects,-and US$92.2 million equivalent for six agricultural proj-
ects, of which US$31.6 million was for agricultural credit. The proposed
project would be the third in the road subsector. The Irrigation Rehabilita-
tion Project (Loan 1068-TUN, US$12.2 million) and the Sidi Salem Multipurpose
Project (Loan 1431-TUN, US$42.0 million) include US$1.0 million and US$4.0
million, respectively, for the partial improvement of rural roads in the
Medjerda Valley and Nebhana area (1,700 km) and in Beja and Nabeul (660 km),
respectively. The Government's execution of the transport and agricultural
projects has been generally satisfactory. Annex 1 gives brief details of
previous projects.



- 6 -
II. RURAL ROADS AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
A.   Road Network
2.01      Tunisia's network comprises about 31,000 km of roads, of which
17,000 km are classified and 14,000 km unclassified. The breakdown by class
and surface type for the classified network is shown in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1: ROAD NETWORK IN 1976
Surface     Length       Administrative Classification (km)
Type        (km)        Primary    Secondary    Tertiary
Paved        7,679          3,306        3,290        1,083
Gravel         615             34          206          375
Earth       8,401             735        3,074        4,592
TOTAL      16,695           4,075        6,570        6,050
2.02      In 1974, the MPW, after it became responsible for the unclassified
network, started preparing an inventory of these roads, which is now almost
complete. About 5,000 km of the 14,000 km are forestry roads and the remainder
are roads serving agricultural areas.
2.03      During project preparation rural roads were defined as roads outside
urban areas carrying predominantly agriculturally-related traffic, irrespec-
tive of their classification (para. 1.07); they are mostly unpaved low-volume
roads. On this basis, the rural road network is estimated to total 18,000 km
comprising approximately 9,000 km of unpaved classified roads and 9,000 km
of unpaved unclassified roads.
2.04      Traffic counts were not normally made on rural roads; they are now
being carried out on the roads being studied under the proposed project.
Furthermore, the rural roads were rarely maintained by the MA (para. 1.10).
Since most of them were originally built to low design standards, they are
now practically impassable during the rainy season and beyond the capacity
of normal maintenance. As a result, farmers are unable to obtain essential
inputs and to sell their products on time and at reasonable transport costs.
Also, the full benefits of existing extension and other support services
cannot be realized, because experts cannot reach farmers without undue diffi-
culties, and credit is beyond reach. Many areas are virtually isolated for
many months each year and have not been able to realize their full development
potential.



2.05      The Government submitted the proposed project for Bank consideration
in late 1975 as a pilot scheme of high priority for launching a comprehensive
and continuing program for the development and maintenance of the rural road
network. The Bank's experience indicates that, to achieve optimal benefits,
it is frequently necessary to integrate road improvements and agricultural
development; the main reason for not achieving forecast economic returns (ERs)
of road improvements in the past is the absence of a complementary agricul-
tural development program. 1/ Thus rural road improvements often cannot be
expected to raise agricultural production automatically. Vice versa, most
agricultural investments by themselves would yield insufficient benefits to
justify their costs because the poor condition of the rural roads would weaken
their full potential impact. The pilot scheme would, therefore, comprise both
improvements of rural roads and complementary agricultural investments.
B.   Road Administration
2.06      The DPC is responsible for the construction and maintenance of the
main and rural road networks (both classified and unclassified). Its head-
quarters in Tunis consists of six divisions (programs, maintenance and
operations, major construction projects, studies, research and materials
laboratory, and equipment maintenance) plus a central administrative and
accounting service (Chart No. 18504).
2.07      In the regions, DPC has 11 field divisions (arrondissements), an
increase of 5 since 1975. A total of 18 are planned to be in place by 1981,
1 for each province. The corresponding 18 roads subdivisions are already in
place, although not all the maintenance crews have yet been established and
some are undermanned. The full complement of 133 crews for the whole country
is planned to be operational by the end of 1981. The subdivisions are pri-
marily concerned with maintenance, but also handle smaller construction
projects.
2.08      DPC has almost its full complement of engineering assistants and
technicians but its staff of 46 engineers is below strength. Recruitment
is difficult as civil service conditions are not attractive. Consultants,
including 4 competent Tunisian firms, are providing highway design services.
DPC engineers in charge are competent and most have been trained abroad,
mainly in France.
2.09      Supervision of road works, including those in the Second Highway
Project, is carried out by DPC. The supervision is adequate. Supervision of
works of the scope of the proposed rural road improvements would normally be
delegated to the field divisions (para 4.05). However, in view of the con-
centration of some of the items, and more particularly of the recent estab-
lishment of some of the field divisions, some assistance will be given from
headquarters divisions in the form of resident engineers and laboratory
technicians. This reinforcement of the field divisions is expected to ensure
competent administration and supervision of the road improvement works pro-
posed under the project. During negotiations assurances were obtained from
1/   Comparative Evaluation of Selected Highway Projects, OED, 1974.



- 8 -
the Government that it will make available, on site, sufficient qualified per-
sonnel and other resources necessary to ensure satisfactory construction
supervision.
Financing
2.10      The financing of rural road improvements is still evolving, both
because of the lack of priority given to these roads until recently and of the
recent change in administrative responsibilities. In principle, rural road
improvements may be financed from two capital budgets. The first is the Rural
Development Fund, which is administered by the governor of each province at
his discretion among the many rural development needs. The funds devoted so
far to rural road improvement have been modest and have generally been limited
to such spot improvements as paving fords. The second is the recently estab-
lished budget for the sole purpose of financing rural road improvements under
the proposed project. This budget will be administered by DPC.
Planning and Engineering
2.11      Prior to the proposed project, there was virtually no planning and
no engineering of rural roads in Tunisia. Criteria have now been developed
during project preparation by a joint venture of French and Tunisian consul-
tants, financed under the Second Highway Project. Annex 2 shows the principal
engineering criteria, which are satisfactory and were discussed and agreed
upon with the Government during negotiations. A technical manual for future
application by field divisions is being prepared and will be available before
project implementation starts.
2.12      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that it will continue the collection of technical, traffic,
and other relevant data as a means to monitor project results and as a
basis for the proper planning of the entire rural road network.
Construction and Maintenance
2.13      Other than spot improvements, little rural road construction has
as yet been undertaken in Tunisia. Construction works are normally carried
out under unit price contract. There are many large contractors in Tunisia.
For the Second Highway Project 31 foreign and 8 Tunisian contractors pre-
qualified, and the most recent tender call produced 7 bids, 4 of which were
from Tunisian firms. Moreover, smaller regional contractors are likely to be
interested in the proposed works; these firms can take on contracts up to a
value of about D 1 million (US$2.3 million).
2.14      Maintenance of the classified highway network was studied under the
First Highway Project, and the reorganization is now being satisfactorily
implemented by DPC (para. 2.07). The new headquarters division in charge of
Maintenance and Operations (Chart No. 18504) began tunctioning in 1976. The
field subdivisions carry out the maintenance of the roads and routine main-
tenance of the main roads is now reasonably well in hand. Although routine
maintenance of the rural roads is not effective because of their condition
(para. 2.04),the field subdivisions would be able to carry out routine main-
tenance of the proposed project roads once they are improved (para. 2.09).



- 9 -
However, the subdivisions would need additional road maintenance equipment
(para. 4.05). Routine maintenance of the 1,000 km of roads in the project is
estimated to require an annual budget of approximately D 250,000. This repre-
sents about 6% of the total highway maintenance budget. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that all rural roads improved to an appropriate
service level will be adequately maintained in accordance with sound engineer-
ing and financial practices, and the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for this will be provided promptly as needed. The DPC is
expected to be able to carry out this task.
C.   Agricultural Institutions
2.15      The MA has overall responsibility for agricultural planning and
development. Its DPAEP is responsible for the preparation of the agricultural
components of the proposed project, with the assistance of the same joint
venture of consultants which assists the DPC (para. 2.11).
2.16      For project implementation, several semi-autonomous public agencies
under the authority of the MA will be involved in addition to its Extension
Department, Crop Protection Department, Agricultural Production Department and
Livestock Production Department.  The main semi-autonomous public agencies are:
(i) the Office de Mise en Valeur de la Vallee de la Medjerda et
des Perimetres PublicsIrrigues (OMVVM-PPI) and the Office de
Mise en Valeur de Nebhana (OMIVAN), which are primarily respon-
sible for the management and maintenance of the irrigation
network and for extension services and credit in kind to
farmers engaged in irrigated crop production;
(ii)  the Office National de l'Elevage et des Paturages (ONEP),
which supplies farmers with high-quality farm animals on
credit and is encouraging farmers to grow fodder crops under
irrigation;
(iii)  the Societe Tunisienne d'Industries Laitieres (STIL), which
is responsible for the transport of milk from collection
centers to processing plants and the production and dis-
tribution of milk and milk products in the country;
(iv)  the Office des Cereales (OC), Cooperative Centrale de Ble
(COCEBLE) and Cooperative Centrale des Grandes Cultures
(CCGC), which market cereals and provide farmers with inputs
for cereal production and information about improved wheat
varieties; and
(v) the Societe Nationale de Motoculture (SONAM), which provides
equipment rental and maintealance services and sells equipmeniL
and spare parts.
To facilitate project implementation, the number of agencies would be kept to
a minimum.  For instance, OC would be responsible for all r-c7mmended -ictions
dealing with cereal production, rather than OC, COCEBLE . C? ZZGC.



- 10 -
2.17      MA's regional field divisions (CRDAs) are responsible for overseeing
the coordination of programs of semi-autonomous public agricultural agencies
and divisions of the MA, and would be responsible for coordinating the comple-
mentary agricultural investments in the field. The staff of the CRDAs and of
all of the agencies of para. 2.16 is capable of implementing and monitoring
the project. In view of the deficiencies in equipment and maintenance in
some of SONAM's regional work centers, the Government intends to strengthen
existing service cooperatives and to increase their number; these coopera-
tives have functioned satisfactorily. The total staff serving the agricul-
tural extension sector consists of about 175 chief engineers, 385 works
engineers, 240 assistant engineers, 1,060 technical assistants and 1,820
technical officers. Some of this staff could be made more effective by
improving its communications capabilities and procuring new equipment such
as mobile extension units and audio-visual equipment (para. 4.09). The
coordination among extension organizations also needs to be improved (paras.
3.06-3.07 and 4.06-4.10).
2.18      A Coordinating Committee consisting of one high-ranking Government
official  from each of the Ministries of Public Works, Agriculture, Planning
and Interior, especially created for the preparation of the proposed project,
is responsible for the overall planning and administration of the rural road
works and the complementary agricultural investments. This Committee, which
was established upon the Bank's recommendation, has been functioning satis-
factorily for project preparation but should be reinforced for project imple-
mentation (para. 4.31).
2.19      The marketing of most agricultural products is in the hands of
private traders, some organized into cooperatives. Vegetables and fruits
for export are usually graded, packed and exported through cooperatives.
Milk is mostly sold to STIL, but sometimes to industrial vendors, while live-
stock is sold by farmers in local markets, mostly to independent butchers.
Some capacity shortages of collection facilities for products such as wheat
and milk exist.
Agronomic Research
2.20      Agronomic research is concentrated around 3 main institutions:
the Tunisian National Agronomic Research Institute (Institut National de la
Recherche Agronomique Tunisienne) with central laboratories in Tunis and 16
experimental farms spread through the country, the Tunis National Agronomic
Institute (Institut National Agronomique de Tunis) and the Rural Engineering
Research Center (Centre de Recherche de Genie Rural). There are regional
research centers in Beja, Bizerte, Jendouba, Sousse and Gabes provinces.
According to Government claims, significant results were recently obtained
in the field of new varieties of high-yielding wheat, in improvement of cul-
tivation systems (crop rotation and weeding), in selection of fodder plants
suited to each region and in development of new varieties of vegetables and
fruit trees. There is no research in the proposed project since the tech-
nology to be applied would, except for the proposed production of medicago
in the provinces of Le Kef and Siliana, be known in Tunisia.



- 11 -
D.   Agricultural Credit
2.21       Report No. 1133-TUN describes in detail lending policies, procedures
and related issues. The main issues have been resolved although the Bank and
Government continue their dialogue under the Second Agricultural Credit Project.
2.22       The Tunisian National Bank (Banque Nationale de Tunisie, BNT) is the
main institution extending investment credit to agriculture. It is one of the
largest commercial banks and the largest provider of short-term agricultural
credit (about 65%). However, most of BNT's own resources are used for the
more profitable non-agricultural operations, and for agricultural credit it
relies mainly on outside funds.
Investment Credit
2.23       Investment credit from BNT to agriculture encompasses medium-term
(1-7 years) and long-term credit (more than 7 years); it is financed 97%
from budgetary and foreign resources provided by the Bank, the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID), the Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA), and the World Food Program (WFP). All resources
made available to BNT are placed in special funds with their own lending
rules and appraisal procedures. The most important fund is the Special Fund
for Agricultural Development (Fond Special pour le Developpement Agricole,
FOSDA), which is financed from yearly budget appropriations. For FOSDA,
which also provides investment grants, rules are specified for each type of
investment credit, fixing the proportion of loan, grant, and self-financing,
the maximum loan amount (per ha, tree or other investment unit), and terms
and conditions of the credit.
2.24       In 1977, the conditions for FOSDA credit were changed in the context
of the Bank-financed Second Agricultural CreditjProject. The new conditions
are described in Annex 3. The eligibility criteria for low-income farmers for
concessionary investment credit based on a family net annual income of D 600
are expected to improve their access to credit. To streamline the rate struc-
ture, the interest rate of FOSDA loans and loans financed with the Second
Agricultural Credit Project was increased in 1977 from 3.5 to 4.5% to a
standard rate of 6.0% for low-income farmers, with the Government providing
smaller subsidies than under the previous FOSDA regulations. Furthermore,
interest rates for commercial farmers were increased to 7% and those for agro-
industrial borrowers to 8%.
Short-Term Credit
2.25       BNT makes short-term loans from its own resources to large commer-
cial farmers and cooperatives. The 1974 creation of Mutual Guarantee Associa-
tions (Societes de Caution Mutuelle, SCMs) has in principle made production
credit from BNT more easily accessible to low-income farmers since they are
jointly liable as members of an SCM. Requirements for SCM membership have
recently been lowered from a 20-ha farm to a 10-ha farm for grain producers
in northern Tunisia, although loans to this lower category are in kind.
Interest rates for short-term loans are 6% for low-income farmers and 7% for
commercial farmers (Annex 3).



- 12 -
2.26      Short-term credit in cash is also provided by the local credit
cooperatives (Caisses Locales de Credit Mutuel, CLCMs), but about half of
these cooperatives have been plagued by poor management, poor repayment
and continuing losses. Of the 42 existing CLCMs, 14 are planned to be taken
over by BNT as agencies in 1978. Eventually, all will be taken over. If
CLCMs are considered to be part of BNT, over 90% of short-term credit would
have been made available by BNT. The remainder has been granted primarily
by the OC.
2.27      A number of government agencies provide short-term credit in kind
to low-income farmers (para. 2.16). In 1977, the OC extended about 10,250
loans, totalling D 461,000 to low-income farmers primarily for seeds, fer-
tilizers and herbicides.
2.28      Despite the improvements mentioned in para. 2.25, no more than 5%
of all low-incomle farmers in Tunisia received short-term credit in 1977 (para.
4.13).
BNT Management
2.29      BNT management practices are satisfactory; further improvements are
being discussed under the Second Agricultural Credit Project. Central BNT
staff approve short-term loans above D 3,000 and investment loans made from
its own and foreign funds. For investment loans from FOSDA and other special
funds, local BNT staff perform a credit-worthiness study, and the lending
decision is taken by the National Credit Committee on the advice of Regional
Credit Committees of which a CRDA representative is chairman. The technical
appraisal of investment loans is made by extension agents of the MA or its
semi-autonomous agencies. In 1977, local BNT staff were given the authority
to approve short-term loans under D 3,000. This procedure is satisfactory.
However, greater decentralization of investment credit decisions would be
desirable to accelerate the processing of loan applications. This issue and
related required training of local BNT staff is under discussion with the
Bank.
E.   Land Tenure
2.30      Private property and collective ownership are the two principal
forms of land tenure and account for about 90% of the cultivated land in the
zones of influence of the rural roads. The remaining 10% consists of State
Farms and Farmer Cooperatives managed by the State Lands Bureau (Office des
Terres Domaniales, OTD) of the Ministry of Interior.  In most provinces about
85% of the private holdings are less than 20 ha, 13% between 20 and 100 ha
and 2% more than 100 ha.
2.31      The OTD program to provide private titles to collective land is
making steady progress, though the process may require about 15 years to
complete. In the meantime, a simple property certificate ("Certificat de
Possession"), which takes about three months to obtain, is acceptable as
security by the BNT in cases where cadastral or Islamic titles are lacking.
Such security is only required for long-term credit.



- 13 -
III. PROJECT AREAS AND APPROACH
A.   Project Areas
3.01      The project areas would primarily consist of zones of influence of
rural roads in the provinces of Le Kef, Siliana, Kairouan, Sidi-Bouzid,
Kasserine, Gafsa, Nabeul and Gabes. The total area would be about 385,000 ha
and the total number of farm families would amount to approximately 32,000.
About 60% of the population in this area, which constitute primarily farm
families, belong to the rural poverty target group (para. 5.05). Annex 4 and
Maps IBRD 13319-13328 show the identified rural roads.
Land Use and Agricultural Potential of the Project Areas
Le Kef and Siliana
3.02      These provinces have a hilly terrain with an average rainfall
between 500 and 600 mm. The present land use consists mainly of dry farming
with a two-year crop rotation of cereals and fallow. The project would facil-
itate the accessibility of the region by improving rural roads, increase
inputs and credit availability, and improve extension services. The proposed
technical package would mainly include the introduction of fodder products
(medicago and vetch oats) in the crop rotation. Fallow land is expected to
decrease significantly and livestock production (cattle and sheep) to increase.
The proposed fodder crops and techniques have already been tested in the area.
However, medicago is still at an early stage of experimentation.  Based on
ongoing FAO and bilateral assistance projects, farmers' acceptability of the
new techniques is expected to be good. This is particularly true for farmers
not belonging to the low-income category (para. 2.24). The zones where rural
roads are to be improved would cover about 100,000 ha and 5,700 farm families.
Kairouan, Sidi-Bouzid, Gafsa and Kasserine
3.03      These provinces belong to the Central Tunisian region which is
adversely affected by low rainfall (200 to 350 mm) and consequently has a
limited agricultural potential. The identified roads' zones of influence
would cover about 250,000 ha and a population of 14,300 farm families. The
region is a marginal sector for cereals and is mainly oriented towards rainfed
arboriculture (olives and almonds), as well as extensive grazing for sheep.
The development would be mainly limited to expanding fruit trees and range
management. Some small irrigation schemes, primarily the drilling of new
wells and deepening of existing ones, would also be considered. The agri-
cultural potential of the zones of influence of rural roads in Sidi-Bouzid,
Gafsa and Kasserine is particularly poor. Under the highway sector lending
approach (para. 3.13), rural roads identified for possible improvement
would not be included in the proposed project if they are not economically
viable. In such a case, a shift to other regions would be considered (para
5.03). The Government wishes to examine the economic viability of improving
rural roads in the aforementioned three provinces since the Fifth Development



- 14 -
Plan objective of raising the standard of living (para. 1.04) applies partic-
ularly to Central Tunisia. The Bank does not object to this examination pro-
vided the cautious approach of paras. 4.20-4.23 is followed.
Nabeul
3.04       This is one of the richest of the proposed project areas.  Irrigated
vegetables, citrus orchards, vineyards and cereals are the main crops of the
region. Agricultural production is now limited by poor access to markets and
lack of basic agricultural supporting services, mainly for the small vegetable
and fruit growers of the Northern Cap Bon area. The proposed rural road works
are expected to improve marketing conditions, and although no innovation would
be introduced in cropping patterns, technical agricultural packages would sig-
nificantly improve present cropping techniques. The expected roads' zones of
influence would cover about 23,000 ha and 2,000 farm families.
Gabes
3.05      The main potential of the semi-desertic area of this province in the
south is date palm and vegetable production in oases covering about 12,000 ha
and 10,000 farm families. Since large underground water resources have been
identified in the south, the Government is planning to double the oasis areas,
mainly for date production, which is of a high quality in Southern Tunisia and
has a good potential market in Europe. Growing alfalfa and developing live-
stock are also envisaged. With the exception of some large State and private
farms, most of the date palm groves belong to low-income farmers living at or
below the absolute poverty level. Rural roads would facilitate the creation
of new oases as well as marketing of existing and future date and vegetable
production. The agricultural package would include improvement of date palm
and intercropped vegetable production techniques. New plantations are planned
in the framework of the Southern Irrigation Project now under consideration
for Bank financing (FY79).
Services in Project Areas
3.06       In addition to insufficient lending resources being channelled into
agriculture, the following main issues exist:
(i)  inadequate coordination among extension organizations such
as the MA's Extension Department, OMVVM-PPI and OMIVAM;
(ii) inadequate coordination between extension services and
suppliers of credit; and
(iii)  lack of detailed, uniform guidelines applicable to all
extension organizations.
3.07      As a result of insufficient coordination, farmers often obtain con-
flicting advice, and due to the shortage of credit they may not be able to
follow up extension agents' advice. The MA is aware of this issue and, under
its current five-year plan, aims to reorient its extension services in such a



- 15 -
manner that farmers will be in contact with only one extension agent. Small
regional extension units are planned to be introduced, which will group
together in the field the agents of the various organizations. These measures,
which have been discussed and agreed upon during negotiations, should be
effective and would be supplemented by extension manuals with specific action
programs (paras. 4.06-4.10).
B.   Approach
3.08      Upon the reques,t of the DPC in 1975, each province sent in proposals
for improvements of specific rural roads. Based on the estimated absorptive
capacity of the MPW and the MA, especially with regard to supervision, support
services and maintenance requirements, the Government and the Bank selected
from these proposals about 1,000 km of rural roads for immediate study. A
pilot scheme of this size was also felt to give appropriate impetus to a
follow up project and to fall within budgetary constraints. The 1,000 km of
roads are located in diverse areas, because the proposed project is intended
to cover representative terrain, soil and environmental conditions, and agri-
cultural potential in Tunisia. These areas are located in the provinces of
Le Kef, Siliana, Kairouan, Sidi-Bouzid, Gafsa, Kasserine, Nabeul and Gabes
(paras. 3.02-3.05).
3.09      To achieve optimal benefits from a rural road development program
(para. 2.05), the main features of the approach in project preparation are:
(i) focus on individual rural roads and their specific zones of influence;
(ii) the development of an integrated investment package for each road's zone
of influence; and (iii) the integration of these investment packages into
regional and national development plans. This integration was ensured by the
MA during project preparation by taking into consideration the development
plans of its semi-autonomous public agencies (para. 2.16). The main objective
is to develop integrated investment packages, not only for those roads whose
improvement could not be justified without complementary agricultural invest-
ments, but also for those roads where road user savings alone would warrant
improvement. Moreover, to support the above investment packages, project
preparation includes extension manuals with specific recommended actions,
production goals to be attained, and procedures for monitoring success in each
rural road's zone of influence. To ensure sound development proposals, a dis-
tinction between small, medium and large farmers, based on agro-economic con-
siderations, is made in setting the goals and recommended actions. In rainfed
areas, small, medium and large farmers are defined as holders of farms with
sizes below 20 ha, between 20 and 100 ha, and above 100 ha, respectively. The
respective ranges are below 1 ha, between 1 and 5 ha and above 5 ha in irri-
gated areas. The above distinction does not apply to investment credit, which
is granted mainly on the basis of income criteria (para. 2.24). The avail-
ability of investment packages for each road makes it possible, from the
outset, to identify key crops and actions to be taken for successful project
implementation. As a result, available extension and other support services
can be focussed from the start on these crops and actions and their effective-
ness should therefore be considerably improved. Annex 5 describes an example
of an investment package.



- 16 -
3.10      Investment packages may consist of:  (i) investments for rural road
improvements; (ii) rural road maintenance requirements; (iii) on-farm invest-
ments by participating farmers in land clearing, planting of permanent crops,
purchase of cattle, equipment and tool procurement, development of on-farm
storage, etc.; (iv) incremental working capital (purchased inputs, renting of
equipment, labor) required to achieve estimated production increases; (v)
incremental costs of improved extension services; and (vi) investments required
for collection facilities, equipment maintenance and rental facilities, etc.
Recommendations with regard to the inclusion of certain or all components in
the investment package are based on an analysis of the potential agricultural
development and traffic requirements in each rural road's zone of influence.
3.11      The zones of influence of the rural roads are determined by:  (i) the
rural road network around the road being analyzed; (ii) the distances between
farms and local markets; (iii) the terrain; and (iv) the means of transport
used such as pack animals, animal-drawn carts, agricultural tractors, pickups,
trucks, passenger cars, and buses.
3.12      A series of models has been developed and a computer program written
to carry out the calculations required to quantify the costs and benefits of
the proposed investment packages for each rural road and its zone of influence.
Given forecasts of agricultural potentials and implementation rates, together
with road and traffic data, the program calculates agricultural revenues,
future traffic and transport benefits, the ER and optimal year for project
implementation. The results can also be tested for their sensitivity to
single and joint effects of different design standards, different assumptions
on agricultural and transportation policies, development strategies and pro-
cedures. One of the advantages of the approach is that all roads, and their
related investments are treated according to a consistent methodology. This
methodology has been tested in the field and can handle a range of traffic
requirements and agro-ecological environments. Of the 19 roads totalling
about 400 km which have been tested and evaluated, 18 were found to be eco-
nomically viable (para. 5.01). Annex 5 presents an example of the application
of the methodology and the resulting investment package (para. 3.10). The
project file contains full details of all the 19 packages which have been
analyzed (Annex 8).
3.13      Appraisal of the proposed project follows the general lines of the
highway sector lending approach. However, it differs from many projects
appraised in accordance with this approach, since it includes:
(i) an evaluation of the detailed preparation and economic
analysis of 19 specific rural roads with a total length of
about 400 km (para. 3.12) and complementary agricultural
investments in three provinces (Le Kef, Siliana and Kairouan)
according to a methodology acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) the identification of a further 40 roads totalling about
600 km and related agricultural investments, which will be
subjected to similar analyses and evaluation;



- 17 -
(iii)  an assessment of the Government's capabilities to under-
take the analyses and evaluation related to these further
40 road sections; and
(iv)  an assessment of the Government's capabilities to implement
the proposed investments and other measures.
Chapter IV describes procedures and criteria for Bank financing of individual
road sections of the aforementioned 600 km and their related agricultural
investments (paras. 4.20-4.23).



- 18 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives
4.01      The proposed project would establish a pilot scheme for improving
rural roads and raising the agricultural production and standard of living
of the rural population. Better rural roads would facilitate the provision of
social and administrative services, while the increase in economic acti-
vity would create additional employment opportunities. Once established, the
pilot scheme would serve as a consistent methodology for and approach to the
development of the rural road network.
B.   Description
4.02      The project would be based on specific rural roads and would com-
prise both road improvements and complementary agricultural investments.
Because most of the proposed road improvements and agricultural investments
are highly interdependent, such an integrated approach would achieve an
optimal development package (para. 3.09).
4.03      The project would consist of:
(i)  civil works to improve about 60 rural road sections
totalling about 1,000 kIn;
(ii)  road maintenance equipment, spare parts and workshop
machine tools;
(iii) equipment and training for agricultural extension
services;
(iv)  agricultural credit;
(v)  agricultural equipment and the construction of col-
lection and equipment rental facilities and workshops;
and
(vi)  technical assistance.
The roads to be evaluated are listed in Annex 4 and shown on Maps IBRD 13319-
13328.
Rural Road Improvements
4.04       Improvements would consist of rehabilitation, upgrading or new con-
struction, all with particular attention to drainage, and would conform to the
design standards of Annex 2, which are satisfactory. Rehabilitation would
generally be on sections of roads that were previously engineered but
have not been maintained. Upgrading would generally follow the existing
alignment but would improve the pavement structure and longitudinal profile.



- 19 -
Rural Road Maintenance
4.05      As explained in Chapter II, rural road maintenance has been lacking
in the past, but the organizational structure necessary has recently been
established and MPW's field sub-divisions would be able to carry out the
maintenance of the roads of the proposed project (para. 2.14). Most sub-
divisions are short of road maintenance equipment. Therefore, the proposed
project includes the purchase of road maintenance equipment to maintain
about 1,000 km of rural roads. The equipment would be distributed to the
subdivisions responsible for maintaining the project roads once they are
improved. However, because of practical organization and job scheduling, the
equipment purchased under the proposed project would not be earmarked only for
maintenance of project roads. In some cases the equipment would be used to
carry out additional tasks on other roads, and in other cases, project roads
would be maintained with other equipment.
Agricultural Extension Services
4.06      The Fifth Plan proposes the introduction of agricultural extension
units (para. 3.07) and priority will be given to their introduction in the
roads' zones of influence. These units will be staffed by technical officers
of existing organizations. Such grouping would improve the coordination among
extension organizations. In addition, to improve the effectiveness of exten-
sion services, each officer would be made responsible for a given area. The
frequency of extension services would be in line with projected needs, which
are more frequent for small farmers than for medium farmers, while few addi-
tional extension services to large farmers are planned, or needed.
4.07      Extension manuals, with specific action programs geared to the
particular provincial problems, have been prepared for each of the provinces
of Le Kef, Siliana and Kairouan. Additional manuals are being prepared, one
for each province in which rural roads' zones of influence of the proposed
project are located. The action programs deal with diverse issues such as
crop rotation, coordination with credit suppliers, and indicators of progress.
Therefore, the availability of these manuals is an important instrument for
improving the efficiency of the extension services.
4.08      The proposed introduction of medicago in the provinces of Le Kef and
Siliana is the only technique with which Tunisian farmers have little expe-
rience. It is, therefore, proposed to increase works engineers from two to
four in Le Kef and from one to two in Siliana during the first year of project
implementation. The number of technical officers would be increased from five
to twelve in Le Kef and from two to six in Siliana during the first two years
of project implementation. The number of technical officers in Kairouan is to
be increased from 36 to 41, while an increase in works engineers is not neces-
sary. Based on the total number of ha of all the zones of influence of the
roads in the pilot project (385,000) and the total number of farmers' families



- 20 -
(32,000) and cropping patterns in these zones (paras. 3.02-3.05), it is esti-
mated that the total number of works engineers would be increased from about
385 to about 390. The increase in technical officers would be from 1,820 to
approximately 1,845 (para. 2.17), during the first two years of project imple-
mentation. The projection of graduates from agricultural schools indicates
that these additional staffing needs can be easily met. In addition, these
needs are not out of line with expectations about the normal growth of exten-
sion staff in Tunisia.
4.09      Most engineers and technical officers whose territories would
include zones of influence of the proposed project would require additional
training in specialized subjects such as communications with farmers. This
training, to be provided by about 6 man-months of consulting time, would take
place in the form of seminars in Tunisia. In addition, there would be visits
to demonstration farms abroad during the first year of project implementation.
The engineers and technical officers whose territories would include zones of
influence in the provinces of Le Kef and Siliana would receive training and
field assistance in medicago cropping from one expatriate expert (12 man-
months) during the first year of project implementation.
4.10      Additional extension equipment is needed (para. 2.17).  The proposed
reinforcement of extension services would therefore consist of the purchase of
equipment such as mobile extension units, audio-visual equipment, cars, light
motorcycles, furniture and brochures; and 18 man-months of expatriate experts
in Tunisia (para. 4.09). The proposed reinforcement of extension services is
realistic (para. 4.09) and is expected to remove existing problems (para.
2.17). Bank financing of the foreign costs, for the above training and equip-
ment, during the first five years of project implementation, is proposed. Dur-
ing loan negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that funds,
manpower, and other resources to reinforce the extension services in the zones
of influence of the proposed project roads will be provided promptly as needed.
Agricultural Credit
4.11      Chapter II indicated that insufficient lending resources are chan-
nelled into agriculture. Until recently other constraints in agricultural
investment credit included a multiplicity of credit terms and conditions, low
interest rates, ill-defined credit eligibility crtiteria and limited access to
credit because of lack of valid titles to land ownership. Policy and insti-
tutional measures were introduced under the Second Agricultural Credit Project
to remove these constraints. For short-term credit the multiplicity of credit
institutions in Tunisia, their inertia and overly prudent attitude towards
low-income farmers are the main constraints.
4.12      Long- and medium-term credit to private farmers would be required
to purchase agricultural machinery, dairy cows, and sheds for livestock; to
plant cactus; to introduce medicago; and to construct wells. The reinforced
extension program would result in additional investment credit requirements
estimated at US$17.2 million equivalent, including a foreign cost of US$6.8
million. About 50% of the foreign cost or US$3.3 million is expected to be
used during 1979-80 and would be financed under the Second Agricultural Credit
Project (Closing Date: December 31, 1980).



- 21 -
4.13       Short-term credit would be required to cover the recurrent cost of
inputs such as fertilizers, pesticides and feed concentrates. The short-term
credit requirements which are based on incremental needs would be included in
the proposed project to ensure that it would be available to low-income
farmers in view of present difficulties.
4.14      The foreign costs of the above credit requirements would be covered
as follows: (i) those of short-term credit requirements by the BNT; (ii)
those of the 1979-80 investment credit needs under the Second Agricultural
Credit Project; and (iii) those of the investment credit needs beyond 1980 by
the Government. During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment and the BNT that the necessary foreign and local funds will be made
available.
4.15      Annex 3 summarizes the terms and conditions of FOSDA investment
credit; although these have been accepted by the Bank (except for medicago,
para. 2.24), the terms and conditions set out in the Second Agricultural
Credit Project are proposed for this project. Loan conditions related to
medicago do not yet exist, since the production of this crop is not common.
Annex 3 shows the terms and conditions of credit and a related grant proposed
for medicago production; they would be for an initial period of three years,
in order to encourage farmers to introduce it.
4.16      BNT's terms and conditions for short-term credit (Annex 3) are
recommended. These terms and conditions together with those proposed for
medicago were discussed and agreed upon with the Government and the BNT
during negotiations.
Facilities and Equipment
4.17      Whereas the existing capacity of agro-industries such as canning
factories is sufficient to take the increased production resulting from the
proposed project, the number and capacity of collection facilities and of
workshops for the rental and maintenance services of agricultural equipment
are inadequate in some areas (paras. 2.17 and 2.19). For instance, project
preparation in the province of Le Kef indicates that increased production of
milk would require the construction of a refrigerated milk collection center
with a capacity of 9,000 liters along Road 101 (Map IBRD 13319). Another
example is the need for additional agricultural equipment for rent and for an
additional workshop to maintain such equipment in Tadjerouine (Le Kef) to
serve the zones of influence of Roads 106 and 110.
Technical Assistance
4.18      The experience gained with the pilot scheme would be applied by the
Government to the next phase of the comprehensive program of rural road devel-
opment consisting of the preparation and evaluation of 2,500 km of roads which
have already been identified. No physical improvements would be undertaken on



- 22 -
this second phase until sufficient experience had been gained with the pilot
scheme. However, to retain the impetus and expertise in project preparation
developed under the pilot scheme, it is proposed to continue with the analyses
at an early date. Consultants would assist the MPW and the MA in project
preparation in a similar manner as for the pilot project. About 130 man-
months would be required which, together with the 18 man-months of technical
assistance for extension services (para. 4.10), would result in a total of
148 man-months of technical assistance.
C.   Sub-Project Review
4.19      The appraisal is based on the detailed preparation and economic
analysis of 19 sections of rural roads with a total length of about 400 km
and complementary agricultural investments (para. 3.13). Annex 4 shows key
data pertaining to traffic and costs of each of these roads. Further details
are in the project file (Annex 8).
4.20      The criteria for the evaluation and approval of a further 40 pro-
posed rural roads totaling an additional 600 km and complementary agricul-
tural investments will be the same as those for the 19 roads (400 km) already
appraised. The first step would be the submission by the Government to the
Bank of a report showing that, based on an initial screening of the roads and
their related agricultural investments, their further preparation and economic
and financial analyses should be pursued.
4.21      The second step would be the submission of:
(i) a report covering preliminary engineering and cost estimates
of construction and periodic and routine maintenance;
(ii)  a report covering present and future traffic in the zone of
influence of each rural road and the related agricultural
development package in accordance with the agro-ecological
potential (paras. 3.03-3.05);
(iii) an extension manual applicable to each zone of influence; and
(iv)  computer input and output data for each road (para. 3.12).
4.22      With reference to Item (ii), if the introduction of a new product
is proposed, the report on an agricultural development package would contain
detailed results of research and subsequent field trials under typical farming
conditions. As a practical matter, the reports mentioned in (i) through (iii)
above would generally cover a group of rural roads and agricultural invest-
ments. These reports would be followed by the submission of final engineering
and contract documents, provided that the ERs and financial rates of return
are acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.23).
4.23      The criteria for Bank approval of sub-projects are that:



- 23 -
(i) the quality of the preparation and analysis of sub-projects
should be acceptable to the Bank (equivalent to that of
the sub-projects in Le Kef, Siliana and Kairouan already
appraised);
(ii)  the ER of the investment package is at least equal to the
opportunity cost of capital in Tunisia (1O0);
(iii) the financial rates of return based on representative farm
models are sufficiently high to provide incentives to farmers
to take advantage of the additional credit facilities for
agricultural investments; and
(iv) the implementation of an investment package will not be started
before its optimal year.
These criteria will be reviewed from time to time in the light of experiences
gained. During loan negotiations assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment and BNT that the procedures and criteria of paras. 4.20 to 4.23 will be
followed.
4.24      The review of the sub-projects, based on the further 40 identified
roads, would constitute a part of project supervision. In view of the
capability of the Government in project preparation, which has been estab-
lished during work on the 19 roads already appraised in detail, of which 18
were found to be economically viable (para. 3.12), a detailed review of all
potential sub-project roads by the Bank is not necessary. A detailed review
would only be made of those proposed sub-projects with a Bank participation
of US$350,000 equivalent or more, provided at least one investment package
related to each agro-ecological zone in each province is examined.
D.   Costs and Financing
4.25      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at D 40.7 mil-
lion (US$93.6 million equivalent) including a foreign cost of D 17.8 million
(US$40.9 million). Table 4.1 shows the estimated costs of the project compo-
nents. These estimates are derived from detailed quantities and rates for
the 18 roads and complementary agricultural investments so far appraised and
included in the project and, for the remainder, from order of magnitude
estimates based on the following assumptions:
(i) rural road improvements would consist of the upgrading from
earth to gravel of 45 km of 9 meter wide sections, 95 km of
6 meter wide sections, and 460 km of 5 meter wide sections;
(ii)  rural road maintenance equipment for approximately 9 main-
tenance crews would suffice;



- 24 -
(iii) improvements in equipment for extension services would be of
the same nature as those in the provinces of Le Kef, Siliana
and Kairouan (para 4.10) and are based on number of extension
engineers and officers in the remaining five provinces (para.
4.08);
(iv) investment credit for small irrigation schemes based on data
regarding underground water resources would be for the pur-
chase of equipment similar to that in Kairouan, credit for
sheds would be in line with present and potential livestock
production (paras. 3.03-3.05), and credit for the improvement
of range management would be similar to that of Kairouan;
(v) short-term credit requirements would be for the purchase of
fertilizers, pesticides and feed concentrates and are in line
with the expected development (paras. 3.03-3.05); and
(vi) improvements in agricultural facilities and equipment are based
on information obtained from semi-autonomous organizations
(para 2.16).
All of the above assumptions are based on a preliminary review and reconnais-
sance of most of the roads and areas concerned.
4.26      Except for technical assistance, final quantities and costs for the
additional 40 roads would depend on the detailed preparation and analyses of
each road and its related agricultural investments. Depending on these final
costs, the total number and length of the rural roads to be improved may,
therefore, differ from the estimated 60 and 1,000 km, respectively. The costs
of technical assistance (para. 4.18) are based on consultants' rates pertain-
ing in early 1978 (US$7,700 gross per man-month). The cost estimates of Table
4.1 were discussed and confirmed with the Government and the BNT during
negotiations.



- 25 -
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST
Dinars (Million)          US$ (Million)        Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Rural Road
Improvements               9.8    6.6    16.4    22.6    15.1    37.7         40
Road Main. Equipment        0.4    1.5      1.9      0.9      3.5      4.4     80
Extension Services          0.4    0.6      1.0      1.1      1.3      2.4     55
Investment Credit           3.4    2.3      5.7      7.8      5.3    13.1      40
Short-Term Credit           1.7    0.7      2.4      3.9      1.6      5.5     28
Agricultural
Facil. & Equip.           1.4    1.6      3.0      3.2      3.6     6.8      53
Technical Assistance        0.2    0.3      0.5      0.3      0.8      1.1     75
Subtotal                 17.3   13.6    30.9    39.8    31.2    71.0         44
Physical Contingencies    1.7    1.4        3.1      4.0      3.1      7.1     44
Price Escalation            3.9    2.8      6.7      8.9      6.6    15.5      43
Total                22.9   17.8    40.7    52.7    40.9    93.6          44
4.27      The costs of Table 4.1, which are expressed in beginning 1978 prices,
include a physical contingency of 10%.  Price escalation contingencies have
been included in the estimate of total project costs based on the proposed
implementation timetable (Chart No. 18505). The rates are 8%, 7.5% and 7%
for 1978, 1979 and 1980-83, respectively for civil works and consulting ser-
vices, and 7%, 6.5% and 6.0% for the same periods for agricultural equipment.
Duties and taxes are 20% on civil works, 16% on agricultural equipment and 11%
on livestock and sheds. The foreign exchange costs are 40% for civil works,
based on the assumption that one-third of the contracts will be awarded to
Tunisian firms and two-thirds to foreign firms. Foreign exchange costs for
other items are shown in Table 4.1.
4.28      Table 4.2 shows the proposed financing.  The Bank would finance
all foreign exchange costs except those for investment credit for the
period 1981-82, which amount to US$3.5 million and those for short-term
credit amounting to US$2.0 million. However, the Bank financing of the
foreign exchange costs of investment credit for the period 1979-80, esti-
mated to be US$3.3,million would be done under the Second Agricultural Credit
Project. Thus the Bank loan for the proposed project would be US$32.0 million.
The Government would provide the foreign exchange cost of investment credit
for 1981-82, the grant (paras. 2.23 and 4.15) and the local components of all
other items from its relevant budgets.



- 26 -
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING
------------------US$ (Million)--------------------
Sub-              x
MPW   MA   BNT   Grant  Borrowers Bank    Bank Total
Rural Road Improvements  30.3    -        -     -         -     20.2      40   50.5
Road Main. Equipment        1.0    -      -     -         -       4.4     80    5.4
Extension Services           -   1.2      -     -         -       1.6     55    2.8
Investment Credit            -     -   6.7    3.5        3.7     3.3 /1  19   17.2
Short-Term Credit            -     -   5.8      -        1.4       -       -    7.2
Agri. Facil. & Equip.        -     -   1.6      -        2.7     4.8      53    9.1
Technical Assistance        0.3  0.1      -     -         -       1.0     75    1.4
Total                31.6  1.3  14.1    3.5         7.8    35.3      38   93.6
/1   Financed under Second  Agricultural Credit Project.
4.29      The loan proceeds would be made available to the responsible Govern-
ment agencies (MPW and MA for rural road improvements, road maintenance equip-
ment, extension services and technical assistance) or on-lent to BNT (for
agricultural facilities and equipment) on the same terms and conditions as
those of the proposed loan (para. 4.36), which would be for a period of 17
years, including a 4-year grace period, at the current Bank rate. These
conditions reflect the average expected life of project components. The
Government would carry the foreign exchange risk. Similarly to the arrange-
ments made under the Second Agricultural Credit Project, the Government would
pay to BNT a compensatory commission equal to 3% of the portion of outstanding
loans financed by the Bank. This commission would cover BNT's project related
administrative expenses and would enable BNT to set up an adequate provision
for bad debts.
4.30      The sub-borrowers' contribution from their own funds in case of
investment credit to private farmers would average about 22% of investment
costs, but would vary according to the investment item. The sub-borrowers'
contribution in case of investment credit to organizations in charge of col-
lection facilities, equipment services, and workshops (para 4.17) would be
30%. Sub-borrowers' contribution in case of short-term credit is not stipu-
lated in the Government's credit regulations and varies between 10% for low
income farmers and 50% for commercial farmers. The share BNT would finance
from its own resources for individual short-term sub-loan amounts (US$5.8
million) was discussed and agreed upon with the Government and BNT during
negotiations.
E.   Implementation
4.31      The organization proposed for project implementation is shown
on Chart No. 18872. This organization is based upon the organization
which has satisfactorily undertaken project preparation. To ensure adequate



- 27 -
impetus for the project and to provide direction to the Coordinating Committee,
the overall responsibility for the project should be vested in the Ministry of
I iblic Works since the MPW is the major executing agency for the project.
DuLing loan negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that it
will assign specific overall responsibility for project implementation to the
MPW which will, in turn, administer the project through the Coordinating
Committee to ensure that all of the project elements are carried out in a
timely and coordinated manner.
4.32      The membership of the Coordinating Committee (para. 2.18) during
the project implementation stage would be increased by one member from the BNT
and an additional member from the MA. Two representatives from the MA are
proposed, namely one from DPAEP and one from the Agricultural Production
Department (Direction de la Production Agricole, DPA) since these departments
cover the planning and operational functions respectively. The MPW represen-
tative would be from DPC which covers planning, construction and maintenance
functions. In view of the successful experience with the Coordinating Com-
mittee and with the semi-autonomous agencies during project preparation, it
is considered that the proposed project implementation organization shown
on Chart 18872 would be effective. A condition of loan effectiveness is
the formal establishment of the Coordinating Committee including its legal
standing, powers and terms of reference.
4.33      Responsibility for the execution of the various project investments
and actions would remain with the existing agencies, and experience with the
project should enhance their capability in coordinating their activities and
annual plans. The Coordinating Committee would function through the MA and
MPW members, who have line authority over their regional offices. In the
case of other agencies the Coordinating Committee should have the authority
to enter into written agreements (para. 4.36). In the case of significant
problems the Minister of Public Works would raise the matter directly with
his responsible colleague.  The Coordinating Committee would meet not less
than once a quarter, or more often if necessary. It would review quarterly
progress reports (para. 4.35) and would determine appropriate action to be
taken to resolve any problems. It would also review future works programs
and budgets for each of the participating organizations (para. 4.35) to ensure
that all necessary activities are coordinated.
4.34      At the central government level, the DPC would be responsible for
implementing the: (i) rural road construction works; (ii) procurement of
rural road maintenance equipment; and (iii) technical assistance to MPW for
the preparation of sub-projects for 2,500km of roads; the DPA would be
responsible for: (i) improvements of extension services including training
of agents; (ii) construction works related to collection and equipment
facilities; (iii) agricultural equipment procurements; and (iv) technical
assistance to MA for the preparation of complementary agricultural investments
for the aforementioned 2,500 km of roads.
4.35      At the provipcial level, the heads of field divisions of the MPW
would be responsible for supplying the Coordinating Committee, through the
DPC, with quarterly reports about progress with rural road works and technical



- 28 -
data, and coordinating rural road works with agricultural activities. Simi-
larly, the heads of CRDAs would be responsible for supplying the Coordinating
Committee through the DPA with quarterly progress reports on the implementa-
tion of all agricultural components of the proposed project; to inform the
Coordinating Committee of unforeseen problems, whenever necessary; and to
coordinate the implementation of agricultural investments with rural road
works. Since the overall project covers a number of related activities and
the timing and scope of some activities will undoubtedly require adjustment
as experience is gained, a certain degree of flexibility in project execution
will need to be maintained. Each participating agency (para. 4.36) would,
therefore, review jointly with the Coordinating Committee an annual plan
detailing the activities and expenditures under the project for the following
year. The annual plans would provide the critical operational detail needed
to implement, and as necessary adjust, the timing of the road and comple-
mentary agricultural investments as well as the actions initially defined in
the manuals for the extension program. During negotiations assurances were
obtained from the Government that these annual plans will be submitted to
the Bank for review and comment by September 30 of each year, starting in 1979.
Operating Agreements
4.36      Apart from independent contractors for construction works, a number
of agencies which are not part of the MA or are largely autonomous would
participate in project implementation. The Coordinating Committee would enter
into written arrangements acceptable to the Bank, with such agencies specifying
their specific responsibilities with respect to project implementation. The
Government would enter into a written agreement with BNT for those components
of the project which deal with short-term credit to farmers, and investment
credit to farmers and organizations in charge of collection facilities and
equipment (para. 4.17). During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Government that all arrangements necessary to ensure the active
participation of the various executing agencies, including BNT, would be
entered into. Furthermore, the signature of the agreement with BNT is a
condition of loan effectiveness.
Executing Agencies
4.37      All rural road improvement works would be carried out by contract
and supervised by the DPC, which is competent for this purpose. The technical
assistance to MPW and MA for preparation of an additional 2,500 km would be
provided by qualified and experienced consultants according to terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Bank.
4.38      The strengthening of extension services (para. 4.10) would be
achieved by the introduction of extension cells to be staffed with personnel
from OMVVM-PPI, ONEP and MA's departments involved in extension work, the
additional training of this personnel, and the purchase of equipment (para.
4.10). The additional training would be given by specialists already employed
by these agencies and by qualified and experienced experts on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.09). The training procurement
will be supervised by DPA which is competent for this purpose.



- 29 -
4.39      In the provinces of Le Kef, Siliana and Kairouan, the construction
of collection and equipment facilities would be carried out by contract and
supervised by OC for grain facilities, STIL for milk facilities, and SONAM
or a service cooperative for agricultural equipment workshops. The agricul-
tural equipment would be primarily purchased by service cooperatives; SONAM
would only procure equipment for a workshop in a certain area if a service
cooperative does not exist (para. 2.17). For other provinces similar arrange-
ments would be made, as appropriate.
4.40      The BNT would make both investment and short-term credit avail-
able. The CRDAs would assist BNT in appraising loan applications. Lending
policies, procedures, terms and conditions of project sub-loans for investment
credit would be the same as for those under the Second Agricultural Credit
Project, while for short-term credit they would be the same as those in use
for short-term credit by BNT (Annex 3), both of which are acceptable to the
Bank.
4.41      During loan negotiations the Bank, Government and BNT discussed and
agreed that the arrangements for the percentages of default risk on sub-loans
to be assumed by the Government and BNT would be the same as those applicable
to the Second Agricultural Credit Project.
Audit of Accounts
4.42      Government agencies maintain budgets and accounts which are under
constant supervision by a "controleur financier," appointed to each agency by
the Ministry of Finance. The present system is satisfactory. Under the
Second Agricultural Credit Project, BNT subjects its accounts to an audit by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. During loan negotiations assur-
ances were obtained that each executing agency would maintain separate
accounts for its part of project work and that annual financial statements
would be forwarded to the Bank, in a form acceptable to the Bank, within
four months after the end of each fiscal year.
Land Acquisition for Right-of-Way
4.43      During loan negotiations assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that it will make available all right-of-way as needed for the timely
implementation of the proposed project. Since the roads are located in rural
areas, no delays in land acquisition are expected.
Procurement
4.44      Road construction contracts based on unit prices would be awarded
after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guide-
lines for Procurement. Contractors would be prequalified to undertake either
single or several lots. Lot sizes are small enough to be undertaken by
regional contractors. Several lots would also be grouped to be of interest
to large contractors or a consortium of smaller contractors. Except where
impractical for geographical and/or administrative reasons, the minimum size
of a group would correspond to one with a total cost of at least 2.5 million



- 30 -
dinars(US$5.8 million). Contractors should be allowed to bid for one or more
contracts, or for a group of contracts in combination, up to their prequali-
fied capacity. During loan negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Government that such bidding procedures would be followed. Maintenance
equipment contracts would be awarded by the MPW after international compe-
titive bidding, in accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.45      The range of goods to be financed by short-term and investment credit
or to be purchased by the MA or its associated semi-autonomous public agencies
is varied and not suitable for bulk procurement, and individual contracts would
be far too small to warrant full international advertisement. However, foreign
suppliers of fertilizers, herbicides, insecticides, farm machinery and equip-
ment are well represented in Tunisia; necessary service facilities are avail-
able; competition is keen and prices are competitive. Farmers would, therefore,
be enabled to purchase agricultural equipment and inputs of their choice on the
domestic market. Machinery and equipment to be purchased by the MA or its
associated agencies would also be procured through local channels on the basis
of the best offer out of no less than three. Well drilling works, the con-
struction of collection facilities and simple workshops would be carried out
after local competitive bidding had been announced in the local press which
allows foreign firms to participate. Experience with Bank agricultural credit
projects has shown that the local bidding procedures are satisfactory. Copies
of each contract would be sent to the Bank.
4.46      The terms of reference for consulting services related to the
preparation of a further 2,500 km (para. 4.18) would be similar to those used
for the consulting services on the pilot project; the terms of reference for
experts to train extension agents were discussed and confirmed during loan
negotiations.
Project Implementation Schedule
4.47      The schedule for carrying out the project (Chart No. 18505), which
covers about six years, was discussed and confirmed during loan negotiations.
Prequalification for road works was started early 1978 and a call for tenders
for the first group of lots is planned shortly after the approval of the
proposed p-oject by the Board.  The remaining two groups of lots would be let
later to spread the need for local financing.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.48      The monitoring and evaluation of the proposed project are important
in view of: (i) the Government's intention to use experience from this proj-
ect in launching a comprehensive program for rural road improvements and
raising agricultural production; and (ii) the desirability of being able
to identify and to respond quickly to any unexpected side effects of the
project.
4.49      DPC and DPA would, therefore, prepare quarterly progress reports
on the rural road improvements, purchases of maintenance equipment, the



- 31 -
strengthening of extension services, the provision of credit, the construction
of collection and equipment facilities and the purchase of agricultural equip-
ment. These reports would be based on: (i) the targets outlined in the annual
operating plans of participating agencies (para. 4.35) and extension manuals;
and (ii) the progress reports by CRDAs and MPW field divisions (para. 4.35).
The reports would be consolidated into a single report by the Coordinating
Committee. The Government would also be asked to prepare a project completion
report. During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will prepare a quarterly progress report covering the above matters
and send it to the Bank (the first one within six months of the Loan Effective-
ness Date) and the project completion report (within six months of the Loan
Closing Date).
F.   Disbursements
4.50      The proposed Bank loan of US$32.0 million would be equal to the foreign
exchange cost of all project components except short-term and investment
credit (para. 4.28) and would be disbursed over about six years as follows:
US$
million
(i)  Rural Road Works                  15.1    40% of total expenditures
(ii)  Rural Road Maintenance                     100% of foreign expenditures
Equipment                          3.5    or 80% of total expenditures
in local currency
(iii)  Equipment for Extension
Services                           1.3    55% of total expenditures
(iv)  Construction of agricultural               100% of foreign expenditures
facilities and purchase of                or 75% of amounts disbursed
agricultural equipment             4.8    by BNT (equivalent to 53% of
total expenditures)
(v) Consulting services and
training                           0.8    75% of total expenditures
(vi)  Unallocated                        6.5
Total                             32.0
4.51      Disbursements against (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) would be fully
documented. In accordance with the Clause III of CPM No. 7.15, the Government
should make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the audit of expendi-
tures covering disbursements und r this procedure. Disbursement applications
for (i), (ii) and (v) would be submitted by MPW:   r (iii) by MA; and for (iv) by
BNT, all in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. -Luring loan negotiations,
the Bank, Government and BNT discussed and confirmed details of disbursement
arrangements and the schedule of cumulative disbursements of Table 4.3. This
schedule is based on the percentages of para. 4.50 and the project implementa-
tion schedule (Chart No. 18505).



- 32 -
G.   Environmental Impact
4.52       The project would improve the rural environment by providing infra-
structure in the form of rural roads, storage facilities and workshops and
better access to markets and administrative centers. Since the roads are
located in rural terrain and most of the improvements would take place on
existing alignments, there would be little, if any, need to displace dwellings
and their inhabitants.
Table 4.3: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Cumulative Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year                                 at end of Quarter
and end of Quarter                                     US$'000
1978/79
March 31, 1979                                             100
June 30, 1979                                              300
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                         800
December 31, 1979                                       1,800
March 31, 1980                                           2,800
June 30, 1980                                           3,800
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                      4,500
December 31, 1980                                       8,900
March 31, 1981                                         13,200
June 30, 1981                                          14,700
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                     16,400
December 31, 1981                                      18,000
March 31, 1982                                         19,700
June 30, 1982                                          20,000
1982/83
September 30, 1982                                     20,400
December 31, 1982                                      22,200
March 31, 1983                                         24,000
June 30, 1983                                          25,900
1983/84
September 30, 1983                                     27,800
December 31,1983                                       29,700
March 31,1984                                          31,700
June 30, 1984                                          32,000



- 33 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Sector Lending Approach
5.01       In accordance with Highway Sector Lending, the ERs of sub-projects
may be calculated after loan approval, provided that the methodology and
criteria used to appraise the technical and economic feasibility of sub-
projects are satisfactory, only economically viable sub-projects are accepted
for financing and the capacity of the Borrower to implement the project is
adequate. The methodology is set out in detail in the project file (Annex 8,
B.16 and C.2) and is satisfactory. It has already been used to appraise 19
road sections (about 400 km) and complementary agricultural investments in the
provinces of Le Kef, Siliana and Kairouan. The quality of project preparation
is satisfactory, demonstrating the Government's capability to prepare sub-
projects (para. 5.16). The ERs of 18 of the 19 investment packages proposed
in these three provinces range between 11% and 27% (Annex 4), and meet the ER
criterion for Bank approval (para. 4.23). Road 105 (Le Kef) does not meet the
criterion (ER=9%) and is rejected. Financial rates of return, based on six
typical farm budgets of households deriving their incomes entirely from live-
stock and/or crop production, range from 9% to 53% and meet the financial
rate of return criterion for sub-projects (para. 4.23). Annex 6 shows a
sample farm budget. The optimal years for implementing the investment
packages show that the proposed investments in the above three provinces
are appropriately timed (Annex 4). The Government and BNT have the capacity
to implement the project (paras. 2.09, 2.17 and 4.16).
5.02       Sensitivity analyses testing the aforementioned ERs show that a sig-
nificant reduction (75-80%) in complementary agricultural investments, and,
consequently, in benefits,resulted in unacceptable ERs (Annex 4) for all
proposed roads in the above three provinces except Roads 104 (Le Kef), 202
(Siliana), 402, 405 and 408 (Kairouan). The improvement of these five roads
could be justified by savings in transport costs alone; nevertheless, an
integrated investment package, including agricultural investments, is recom-
mended, because the ER of the integrated investment package is significantly
higher than the ER of the rural road improvement only. Sensitivity analyses
testing the ERs under assumed 10% cost overruns or 10% reduction in benefits
resulted in acceptable ERs.
5.03       It is possible that, as in the case of Road 105, some of the addi-
tional 40 road sections under study by the Government and consultants will be
ineligible for financing because they do not meet the criteria of para. 4.23,
especially since some of them have not yet been screened (para. 4.20) and are
located in areas of Central Tunisia with limited development potential (para.
3.03). Therefore, as long as loan funds remain available, such roads will be
replaced by roads from the additional 2,500 km to be studied under the pro-
posed project (para. 4.18). Any such additional roads will be studied on a
province by province basis in the following order of priority: Jendouba,
Beja, Mahdia, Monastir, Sousse, and Zaghouan. This priority was discussed and
confirmed during negotiations.



- 34 -
B.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.04      The proposed project has been designed as a pilot project to assist
the authorities in developing a country-wide rural roads program. Thus, a
main benefit would be that the Government would have a consistent methodology
for and approach to project preparation and analyses and would gain valuable
experience in project implementation.
5.05      Successful project implementation would raise farm incomes, includ-
ing many farmers now with incomes below the Bank's estimated absolute poverty
level of US$191 per capita who represent about 60% of the population in the
proposed project areas (para. 3.01). The project would also support the high
priority which the Government attaches to rural development as well as its
specific objective of achieving self-sufficiency in major food products by
1981.
5.06      The proposed project would also generate important demonstration
benefits to area residents outside the project areas in addition to benefit-
ting families in the project areas due to increased mobility on the part of
children (better school attendance), school inspectors, social workers and
health officials. Finally, it might reduce migration of the rural population
into the cities and urban centers.
5.07      Savings in transport costs due to road improvements would accrue to
farmers and consumers in the case of transport by farmers and service coopera-
tives. Savings in costs of transport by truckers and bus services would
largely be passed on to farmers, other producers, consumers and passengers
since the Government-controlled tariffs reflect the condition of specific
roads (para. 1.09).
C.   Marketing
5.08      In view of the size of the pilot scheme, the impact of the proposed
project on marketing would be small. Incremental production of cereals, meat
and milk would help to substitute for imports, while the increase in output of
fruits and vegetables (fresh or processed) would be absorbed in the domestic
market, which is growing rapidly due to urbanization, rising consumer incomes
and tourism demand. Processing facilities, particularly for vegetables, are
operating at low capacity because of a shortage of input materials and. there-
fore, would benefit from higher production.
D.   Economic Analysis
5.09      All ER calculations are based on a planning horizon of 30 years,
since some agricultural investments have a rather long gestation period. The
quantifiable benefits of the agricultural components are based on the fore-
cast increase in the net value of animal and/or crop production, including
better ex-farm prices of inputs and crops. In estimating the benefit stream
over time, account is being taken of the phased entrance to project partici-
pation of small, medium and large farmers and resulting increases in areas
planted and yields obtained, and changes in cropping patterns and animal
husbandry.



- 35 -
5.10      The quantifiable benefits of the transport components are based on
the reduction in the costs of transport of: (i) passengers and non-
agricultural merchandise on the rural road itself; and (ii) passengers and
merchandise diverted to the rural road. In general, these reduced costs
of transport are only about 15% of total benefits.
5.11      Annex 7 shows the operating costs of transport by various means
(four categories of pack animals, four categories of animal-drawn carts,
pickups, trucks, tractors, passenger cars and small buses). Savings in
operating costs due to rural road improvements are realized because the
improved road (i) reduces the operating costs of motorized means of transport,
and (ii) makes the use of more economical means of transport (motorized) possi-
ble. For instance, for the provinces of Le Kef and Siliana, it has been esti-
mated that during the first year after improvement, 10% of the non-motorized
transport will be replaced by motorized transport; during the next 19 years
a gradual substitution of motorized transport amounting in total to 35%, for
non-motorized transport has been assumed. Corresponding percentages for
Kairouan are 7.5% (first year after improvement) and 40% (19 years).
5.12      Various aspects of the project would have significant benefits which
are not readily quantifiable and have not been included in the ER estimates.
Para. 5.06 gives examples of such benefits; other examples are reductions in
travel time, accidents and losses associated with immobile vehicles.
5.13      Agricultural inputs, rented land and hired labor have been valued at
prevailing prices and rates. The same foreign exchange rate has been applied
to tradeable and non-tradeable agricultural products since import and export
taxes are not levied on these products. Family labor in the provinces of Le
Kef, Siliana and Kairouan has been costed at 50%, because of the limited
employment opportunities on farms affected by the proposed project. Costs of
privately owned farm land in these provinces have not been included because
most of this land cannot be used for other activities (for instance, industry
or tourism). Prices of all inputs and commodities have been adjusted for
import duties, taxes and subsidies.
E.   Project Risks
5.14      The project's success will depend on the timely implementation of a
variety of investments and activities by a number of agencies. The risk of
not achieving adequate coordination and active participation should, however,
be lessened by the establishment of a Coordinating Committee and the arrange-
ments already made to involve directly high level officials of the principal
participating agencies.
5.15      Another type of risk lies in the fact that the experience of some
of the participating agencies (e.g., extension services and BNT) in carrying
out programs directed more intensively at low-income farmers is relatively
recent. Hence, it is possible that, for example, the steps proposed to
achieve greater extension services and credit coverage will prove to be
inadequate or not fully appropriate. However, it is expected that the review
of annual plans with each participating agency (para. 4.35) and the carrying



- 36 -
out of project monitoring (para. 4.49) should help resolve problems which
might arise in this regard. Overall, the potential of the proposed project,
especially its benefits for low-income people, make the project risks well
worth taking.
F.   Government's Capabilities
5.16      The Coordinating Committee, DPC and DPAEP, with the help of consul-
tants have demonstrated their capacity to plan, prepare and evaluate rural
road improvements and their complementary agricultural investments as evi-
denced by the high quality of project preparation and analyses of the 18 roads
already completed as well as the good quality of the manuals for extension
services (Annex 8). In addition, DPC and DPAEP have prepared or supervised
various feasibility studies for highway and road maintenance projects and
agricultural projects, respectively.
C.   Technical Assistance
5.17      The costs of expatriate experts to train extension agents for the
proposed project components in the provinces of Le Kef, Siliana and Kairouan
have been included in the ER calculation by allocating portions of these costs
to the investment packages. The same procedure will be followed for ER calcu-
lations of other investment packages.
5.18      The costs of technical assistance to the MPW and the MA to assist in
the preparation and evaluation of another 2,500 km of rural roads and comple-
mentary agricultural investments have not been included in the aforementioned
ER calculations; they would have to be included in the investment costs of a
subsequent project.



- 37 -
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on various issues
referred to in the report, including the following matters of particular
significance:
(a)  the Government will promptly provide the resources
required to reinforce agricultural extension services
in the zones of influence of the proposed project
roads (para. 4.10);
(b)  the Government and BNT will follow the procedures and
criteria established for the preparation and Bank
approval of sub-projects (paras. 4.20-4.23);
(c)  the Government will cause BNT to finance up to $3.3 mil-
lion equivalent for the foreign costs of the 1979-80
investment credit needs from the Second Agricultural
Credit Project and ensure availability of all funds
necessary for all credit needs in the zones of influence
of the project roads (para. 4.14);
(d)  the Government will assign specific overall responsibility
for project implementation to the MPW (para. 4.31); and
(e)  the Government will cause each executing agency to maintain
separate accounts for its part of project work and submit
annual financial statements to the Bank (para. 4.42).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness will be:  (i) the formal establishment
of the Coordinating Committee including its legal standing, powers and terms
of reference (para. 4.32), and (ii) the signature of the agreement between
the Government and BNT (para. 4.36).
6.03      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$32.0 million to the Government of Tunisia for a 17-year term, includ-
ing a 4-year grace period.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
APPRAISAL OF
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
TUNISIA
Projects Previously Financed by the Bank
Transport Sector
1.        Loan 52-TUN, (1969, US$0.8 million) was for engineering studies
for highways included in the First Highway Project. It was satisfactorily
completed.
2.        Loan 746-TUN, (1971, US$24.0 million, First Highway Project) was
for partial financing of construction and improvement of 274 km of highways,
resurfacing and rehabilitation of 1920 km of roads, reconstruction of 51
bridges and consulting services. The project encountered difficulties with
the rise in costs at the time of the oil crisis. In addition, further studies
showed that the Tunis-Turki section should be constructed as a four-lane
freeway rather than as the three-lane road included in the project. The Board
therefore approved exclusion of the Tunis-Turki road form the project; this
road was later financed by the Kuwait Fund. The disbursement rate was reduced
on the remaining items. All other construction items and consulting services
have now been satisfactorily completed.
3.        Loan 1188-TUN, (1976, US$28.0 million, Second Highway Project) was
for the improvement of about 225 km of primary and secondary roads, and
consulting services to assist in the updating of the 1968 Transport Survey
and to assist with the preparation of a Rural Roads Program. Construction
has started on two lots of highway G.P.8, Tunis-Bizerte, but is delayed
on other lots because of budgetary constraints. The rural roads study is
proceeding satisfactorily, but the updating of the 1968 Transport Survey
is behind schedule due to a late start.
4.        Loan 606/Credit 150-TUN, (1969, US$17.0 million SNCFT, Railway
Project) was for a project, the major components of which were the renewal
of 352 km of track, purchase of rolling stock, improvement of workshops and
consulting services. The project was delayed by about two years due to the
disastrous floods of 1969 and 1971 and shortages of funds resulting from slow
payments by the railway's principal customer (SFAX/GAFSA Phosphate Co.) prior
to 1973, when the Government assumed the debts of the phosphate company. The
project was satisfactorily completed.
5.        Loan 724-TUN, (1971, US$7.5 million, Societe Tunisienne de l'Electri-
cite et du Gaz, Gas Pipeline Project) was for a project the major components of



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
which were procurement and installation of pipelines, compressors, and
auxiliary facilities. The project was satisfactorily completed.
6.        Loan 380-TUN, (1964, US$7.0 million, Republic of Tunisia, First Port
Project) was for a project the major components of which were dredging and
refilling at La Goulette, the construction of berths, transit sheds and other
infrastructure and consulting services. The project was satisfactorily com-
pleted.
7.        Loan 573-TUN, (1969, US$8.5 million, Offices des Ports Nationaux
Tunisiens, Second Port Project) was for a project the major components of
which were dredging, the provision of dredges and cargo handling equipment,
provision of a grain berth, training and consulting services. The project was
satisfactorily completed.
Agricultural Sector
8.        Loan/Credit 484/99 TUN, (1967, US$18.0 million, Cooperative Farm
Project) for a total amount of US$18.0 million was subsequently reduced
to US$9.8 million. Following major changes in Tunisia's agricultural policy
in 1969, the original project was substantially revised and then completed
in 1973. The Project Performance Audit Report which was circulated to the
Board on January 8, 1976, discussed the difficulties of Tunisian agriculture
under the collective system in effect until late 1969. The project was
satisfactorily completed.
9.        Loan/Credit 779/263 TUN, (1971, US$8.2 million, First Agricultural
Credit Project) was to finance part of Banque Nationale de Tunisie's (BNT)
lending to commercial farmers for investment in grain farm mechanization,
dairy farming, and date palm plantation. Implementation was slow initially
but the loan is now fully disbursed and the project satisfactorily completed.
10.       Loan 1340-TUN, (1976, US$12.0 million Second Agricultural Credit
Project) became effective July 19, 1977 and aims at supporting a two-year
lending program for on-farm development of small and commercial farms and
for agro-industries and a four-year lending program for small holder date-palm
plantation development.
11.       Credit 270-TUN, (1971, US$2.0 million, Fisheries Project) was
for a project aimed at development of Tunisia's inshore fisheries. Imple-
mentation is generally satisfactory although problems have been experienced
in gaining acceptance by some of the fishermen of the marine engine of
the project boats.
12.       Loan 1068-TUN, (1974, US$12.2 million, Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project) is for a project to rehabilitate and improve the use of existing
water resources as set out in the primary stages of the Water Master Plan.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
This project covers the Lower Medjerda Valley and Nebhana. The Lower Medjerda
Valley component includes about 20,000 ha of which 75% is already equipped
with irrigation and drainage facilities; the remainder lacks secondary and
tertiary distribution networks. The Nebhana component includes the rehabili-
tation of existing irrigation, drainage and road networks over about 5,000 ha
net in the Nebhana area. The loan became effective in September 1975 and the
physical implementation is satisfactory. Although limited access by small
farmers to credit has now been resolved, delays in enforcement of certain
aspects of land reform legislation are still a problem.
13.       Loan 1431-TUN, (1977, US$42.0 million, Sidi Salem Multipurpose Proj-
ect) has a terminal date for effectiveness of March 1978, and work on some
of the co-financed elements has already begun. This project is the first
phase of execution of the Northern Tunisia Water Master Plan. It includes
the irrigation of 10,600 ha in Testour/Medjez el Bab and Nabeul areas,
prevention of the decline of 6,000 ha of citrus in Nabeul, improvement of
agricultural production on 32,800 ha in the Lower Medjerda Valley, helping
meet portable and industrial water requirements, reduction of periodic
flood damage, generation of electricity and the improvement of rural roads.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
APPRAISAL OF
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
TUNISIA
Principal Engineering Criteria
Geometric Design Standards
1.        Geometric design standards have been determined for design speeds
of 40, 60, 80 and 100 km per hour. The standards are based on the French
ICTAR (Instruction sur les Conditions Techniques d'Amenagement des Routes
Nationales). The principal standards are shown in the table below.
GEOMETRIC DESIGN STANDARDS
Design Speed km/hr
40      60       80       100
Absolute minimum radius m           40      120      240      425
Desirable minimum radius m         120      240      425      665
Absolute maximum grade /1 %          10       9        8         7
Desirable maximum grade %            8        7        6        5
/1 These values are 2 percentage points greater than ICTAR
values in view of the low cost character of rural roads.
2.        The following table shows recommended design standards based on
forecast traffic and topography.
RURAL ROAD DESIGN STANDARDS
Traffic Class (ADT)/
Item              < 50      50-100     100-300      300-1000
Roadway Width m
Carriageway            5          6           6.0           6.0
Shoulder               0          0           1.5           2.5
Total                  5          6           9.0          11.0
Design Speed, km/hr
Flat terrain          ) no formal             80          100
Rolling terrain       )  design               60           80
Mountainous terrain  )  speed                 40           60
/1 ADT = Average Daily Traffic.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Engineering Soil Classification
3.        Four classes of subgrade soil were identified.  They are described
below.
Soil Class      Description
S1         In general, fine materials with poor geotechnical character-
istics, including a plasticity index greater than 20, such as:
(i)  very plastic, fine soils, (clays and very plastic
silts);
(ii)  poorly-drained, fine soils of low plasticity, (clays,
silts);
(iii) very poorly-drained, plastic, clayey-or silty-sands;
and
(iv)  poorly drained, weathered marls.
S2         In general, materials with medium geotechnical characteristics
such as:
(i)  well-drained, fine soils of low plasticity;
(ii)  clayey- and silty-sands;
(iii) well drained, weathered marls; and
(iv)  "Tuf" (the North African term for a calcarious crust).
S3         In general materials with good geotechnical characteristics,
including a plasticity index less than 15, such as:
(i) fine sands;
(ii)  well-drained, low plasticity, clayey- or silty-sands;
(iii) well drained, low plasticity, "tufs";
(iv)  poorly-drained, clayey-gravels; and
(v)  unweathered marls.
S4         In general materials with very good geotechnical charac-
teristics such as:
(i) gravels;
(ii) well-drained clayey gravels; and



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
(iii) rocky materials.
Roadway Structures
4.         The roadway structures for the proposed project were developed
considering traffic volumes and the four classes of subgrade soil, described
in para 3. The structures are shown in the table below.
ROADWAY STRUCTURES /1
Soil                               Traffic Class (ADT)
As sociate                                                                   /
Average        < 50              50-100            100-300         300-1000/
/2
CBR-    Subbase  Base    Subbase  Base    Subbase  Base    Subbase  Base
Class    %          mm       mm         mm     mm         mm      mm         mm     mm
S1     5           0      250        150    150        250    150         300    150
S2     9           0      200          0    250        200    150         250    150
S3    22           0      150          0    200        150    150         200    150
54    37           0      150          0    150          0    150         150    150
/1   All subbase and base courses are natural gravel except base course
for ADT greater than 100 vehicles per day which is crushed gravel.
/2   CBR = California Bearing Ratio.
77-   Bituminous surface treatment provided.
5.        The surface of some sections of the rural roads proposed for
improvement consist of fine plastic soils of classes SI and S2. Passage
is easy in the dry season, but these sections are impassable to motor traffic
during the rainy season from October to February. Such a level of service
is inadequate for the agricultural development envisaged in the richer
agricultural areas, which involves products which cannot tolerate such long
delays. In such cases the level of improvement proposed will assure all
weather service. In areas where no products or agricultural inputs need
to be transported during the wet season the natural subgrade material could
be used as the running surface.
Stream and River Crossings
6.        Small streams are crossed with culverts, but for rural roads it is
too costly to construct bridges across larger flows. The range of possible
crossings therefore includes, in ascending order of service: a ford, a
paved ford (Irish crossing), a paved ford with culverts, and a submersible
bridge. A decision on the type of crossing and the associated level of



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
service is based on a comparison of the cost of the crossing and the losses of
agricultural production which the higher level of service would avoid. The
computer program developed for the analysis of rural road projects contains
the required data for this comparison.



ANNEX 3
- 45 -
APPRAISAL OF
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
TUNISIA
Terms and Conditions of Loans to Farmers
FOSDA Investment Credit
Max. Cost
per Unit of    % to Be Financed frou-/ Interest   Term
Investment                      Own          Ratell  No. o    Credit/Grant        Preparation
Type of Investment              D       Loan  Grant  Contribution         %      Years_/ Giving Instit.   and Follow-up-
Long-Term Credit
Sheds (milk cows)                300        70      10        20           6       15 (2)        BNT         CRDA/OEP
Sheds (sheep)                     30        70      10        20           6       15 (2)        BNT         CRDA/OEP
New wells                      2,500        65      25        10           6       20 (2)        BNT         CRDA/Genie Rurale
OMVVM
Deepening of wells           800-1,300      60     20         20           6       10 (2)        BNT         CRDA/Genie Rurale
Medium-Term Credit
OMVVK
Pumps                          1,200        70     20         10           6        7 (2)        BNT         CRDA//Genie Rurale
Purchase of milk cows            300        70      10        20           6        5            BNT         CRDA/OEP
Tractors and appliances       variable      70       -        30           -       5-7           BNT         CRDA/Prod. Agricole
Cactus planting                56/ha        50     30         20           6        7 (4)        BNT         CRDA/Prod. Agricole
Associated range
protection where             30/ha/yr       -    100          -           -        3            CES/       CRDA/CES
cactus replaces
cereals
Medicago introduction5/
Farms ClO ha                  21/ha        30     65          5           6        5            BNT         CRDA/OC
Farms >10 ha                  21/ha        30     50         20           6        5            BNT         CRDA/OC
Short-Term Credit
Loan Ceiling-/    Interest  Duration
Rainfed  Irrigated    Rate    of Loans   Credit Giving
Crops         Farm Size_/  Type of Loan   D/ha          D/ha        X      (months)-7  Institution
Cereals              s          kind           10-20       30          3          12          OC
S,M        cash/kind-/   10-20        30          6          10          BNT/SCM
L         cash           10-20       30          7          10          BNT
L         cash           10-20       30          3          12          OC
Fodder crops        S,M         cash/kind-/      10        20          6          10          BNT/SCM
L         cash             10        20          7          10          BNT/SCM
Irrigated           s,S         cash-            -       100-270       3         6-12        OMVVM
hortic.crops       S,M         cash             -       100-270       6        6-12         BNT/SCM
L         cash              -      100-270       7         6-12         BNT
Rainfed trees       S,M         cash           25-35        -          6          10         BNT/SCM
L         cash           25-359/      -          7          10          BNT
1/  Minor differences exist between the percentage  to be financed under FOSDA conditions and
those under the Second Agricultural Credit Project.
2/  No more than the indicated number of years; grace period between parentheses.
3/  Organizationsassistingin the preparation of request for credit and follow-up.
4/  CES = Conservation des Eaux et du Sol (Soil and Water Conservation)
5/  Proposed terms and conditions to be discussed and confirmed during negotiations.
6/  s - very small farmer or a farmer under the limit for eligibility to be a member of a SCM
(below 10 ha of rainfed area in north; below 20 ha of rainfed area in south; below
1 ha of irrigated land)
S = small farmer; below 20 ha in rainfed area and below 1 ha in irrigated area
M = medium farmer; between 20 and 100 ha in rainfed area and between 1 and 5 ha in
irrigated area
L = large farmer; above 100 ha in rainfed area and above 5 ha in irrigated area
7/ Range implies dependency on type of crop.
8/ "In kind" only for SCM members with between 10 and 20 ha rainfed crops.
9/ In central and southern Tunisia, D 0.5 per acre for olives.
Source: BanqueNationale de Tunisie (Tunisian National Bank)/Office de Cereales (Cereal Board).



- 46- A-EX
3                 0         4  4 a         0               -  a  -  a4       
e *!....  .00040.                                                               0.     0 
C3               0 v"                              'S        -   'C'   9 v v 8 S   
O                 4         4*   4 W       4         4         4    4   4l         4 W4   = W =
CI Cf           C   C        C   C    C   C    C   C    C    C   C    C  0          C    C 
5.4 v      r     -4o              4'4I4'4'_              '4'00a             '   '   ' w    $4 
O . IIeI         0     0 0 0             0 00                    00 4l  '0   0              0    4      
CI I 
44CI                                 V                             -   s N <l   s i      0    _ --t 
00 01+ 4   4> 0t   4                4 0           4        4         o   1_   4       .n      0    0    0
oC C S                      4   -    4   4   0    0    4    4{      0    4t -h   _      0t 4o     4    0    0, _
X   X   j           1       a                                                                                                                                                                                    v 1  C=
iY~~014    Yo   4   4   CI  _ 0    4   04   4   4)   4 0 0 0 0 0W0W
,I   0     2N@rlZ     
El  -                                                                                                                                                                                    --
.I jo       l                _    :_          ooc  rc    o_:  n.w    w      =   
4~~ u                                e r _ o c   o   e       q    o  0 0 0 0 4   0   0_  r0' o 0    0   0
I                                             -2^                    ^                                 
1 00000440000004044400404C-40044-04                                                                         000s00CC                      0 4    _4                      a*             0   RRRR Soooo D  
0.4000ol    0           00-   a 0_    N    -I     .'   - 0 00 0.004g0 Oa  ,,40  44 00000 4                                                                                                 '   ODO COD
04I040.4.-00,-4wl_>_                           O     4Cro0>      0>s C0o00c-                         4Iwosvvc =D
-    Z  1     v  .e                                                                                       C                                                                                      CCCr as         x^ nv     eo_1.v       <Vr         e>o    
I ov 91 e o o r W N S s e~4'   C                                                                                                                                       2           
4o                                                                                                                                                                             0 ". 440-   X @  'o > @ e          -^                      fl         -r| 0@>@         
4004040000                    0000004004                  0000040400                                                                                                         !'0       a.-.-oNi ~ 
i    04                                               4.         00400040000000                                                                                                           D-04        _0C
21~~~~~~~~~~ 00                                                                 04 3                                                                                         .S                  o2  0RR0iRR  0 So4so9$a-
1.                                                                                                      v                                                                                  4c4  ~ 0    3 $ 
0400004     ~      ~       _ 40000000 0004044 00044000                                                                                                            OCOC         = o    DS
C    00000                 00000          04004          00000           44000          000                                                                                              S                w4 I



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
APPRAISAL OF
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
TUNISIA
Example of Application of Methodology 1/
I. GENERAL DATA
Subproject Road:    No. 101
Location:            From Ebba Ksour to Le Sers, Le Kef province
(Map IBRD 13319)
Length:              21.2 km + 8.0 km of spur roads
Present Condition:  km 1 to km 18, earth track, impassable in wet season.
km 18 to km 21.2, old macadam surface, 3 m wide.
Zone of Influence:  11,500 ha
Population:                         Without            With
Project           Project
1977           4,370              4,370
1983           4,732              4,830
1988           4,973              5,170
1993           5,227              5,543
Climate:             Annual average rainfall           520 mm
Annual average temperature        160C
January average temperature        70C
July average temperature          260C
1/   All costs are expressed in early 1978 prices.



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
II. AGRICULTURAL DATA
Agro-ecological environment: Zone A- 1/
Farm System                                      Farm Size
Small       Medium        Large        All
Area per farm (ha)                < 20        20-100        > 100
Number of farms                    465             73          12         550
% of all farms                      85             13            2        100
Total area (ha)                  2,650         4,140        4,710      11,500
Cultivable area (ha)             2,140         3,350        3,810       9,300
% of cultivable area                23            36           41         100
Pasture area (ha)                  510           790          900       2,200
Rate of Implementation of New Techniques
All farmers in the zone of influence are contacted by extension
agents. The following percentage of farmers adopt the advocated innovations,
the remainder continue with traditional methods and yields.
Size of Farm                        % of Farmers
Class           ha            1983         1988         1993
Small        < 20              50           67          75
Medium      20-100             65           80           90
Large        > 100             75           88          90
These percentages are conservative compared with farmers' acceptability expe-
rienced with ongoing FAO and bilateral assistance projects.
1/   Four agro-ecological zones are distinguished:
A+:  high potential for cereal production, potential yields between 1.5
and 2.0 t/ha.
A-:  good potential for cereal production, potential yields between 1.5
and 1.8 t/ha.
B : medium potential for cereal production, potential yields between
1.2 and 1.5 t/ha.
C :  low potential for cereal production, potential yields between below
1.2 t/ha.



- 49 -
ANNEX 5
Optimal Crop Rotation           Present Techniques             New Techniques
Farm Size                    Farm Size
Crop                     Small   Medium   Large        Small   Medium   Large
Rainfed Crops
Cycle length                   3 yr    3 yr    3 yr         2 yr    2 yr      3 yr
-  Wheat                        50%      50%     55%         45%      45Z      60%
-  Barley                       20%      13%      5%          5%       5%        6%
-  Fallow                       30%      37%     40%          -        -         -
-  Medicago                      -        -       -          50%      25%       -
-  Improved fodder fallow        -        -       -           -       25%      34%
Irrigated Crops
No rotation
Irrigation Potential
Basin of Zouarine River; 3.6 million m3 of water available in
the zone of influence, which with an application rate of 6000 m3/ha gives a
maximum potential irrigated area of 600 ha.
Irrigated Agriculture: Wells
Wells to be         Wells to be        Total No.
Deepened             Drilled          of Wells
1977
Farm Size:  Small                  -                     -               40
Medium                -                     -               20
Large                 -                     -               20
Total                              -                     -               80 /1
1983
Farm Size:  Small                 12                    12               64
Medium                2                     1               23
Large                 2                     1               23
Total                             16                   14               110
1988
Farm Size:  Small                  7                    6               77
Medium                2                     1               26
Large                 1                     1               25
Total                             10                    8              128
1993
Farm Size:  Small                  2                    2               81
Medium                0                     1              27
Large                 1                    0               26
Total                              3                    3              134
/1   Includes improvements planned for 1978 which are not financed under
the proposed project.



Crop Areas with the Proiect (ha)
1983                                                 1988                                                  1993
1977                                 Farm Size                                             Farm Size                                             Farm Size
Farm Size               Small            Medium             LsrRe            Small            Medium             Large             Small            Medium             Large
Small   Medium   Large   U. .   I  T.   U. T.   I. T.   U. T.   I. T.   U. T.   I. T.   U.t T                       I, T. U. T,   IT.   U. T,   I. T. U. T.                        I. T.
Rainfed
Wheat                       973      1,530   1,988    350       510      551      895      716    1,402      184      639      289    1,131    376    1,773        130      674      204    1,206    265    1,891
Barley                     355         298       75    128       57      107       99       27       140      67       71       56       125     14        177     47        75      40        134      10       189
Fodder                      41          93       74     15       18       33       41       27       397       8       14       18       32      14       502        5        6       12        13       8      535,
Olives                       64        143       58     64       -       143       -        58        -       64       -       143        -      58         -       64       -       143        -       58        -
Medicago                     -          -        -      -       567       -       497       -         -       -       710       -       628      -          -       -       749       -       670       -         -
Fallow/Green Barley        582      1,223   1,553    210         -       440      497      559       397    110        -      213       629    293        503       78       -       163      670    207        536
Pasture                    506         792      902    164      324      244      507      325       577      82     410      118       642    170         732     62      439        93       686    120       782
IrriRated
Wheat                        23         16       22      8       78        6       24        8        24       4      106        3        33       4        33       3      120        2        38       3        38
Tomatoes                    43          21       21     16       39        7       12        8        12       8       53        4        17      4         17       6       60        3        19       3        19
Fodder !/                   16           5        3      6       16        2       17        1        17       3       21        1        22       1        22       2       24        1        24       0        24
vegetables                  43          21       16     16       62        7       12        6        12       8       85        4        16       3        16       6       96        3        19       2        19
U. T. - tlnimproved Techniques
I. T. - Improved Techniques
1/  Irrigated fodder is weighted average of Berseem, Fodder sorghum, Raygrass, Luzerne (double cropped).



Crop Yields
1977                  1983                    1988                   1993
___Far& Size               Farm Size               Farm Size              Farm Size
CROP YIELDS -/              Small Medium  Large  Small Medium  Large  Small  Medium  Large  Small  Medium Large
Rainfed:
Wheat (t/ha)               0.6    1.3    1.3    0.8    1.4    1.4    0.9         1.5    1.5    1.0    1.6    1.6
Barley (t/ha)              0.7    1.0    1.0    0.9    1.2    1.2    1.0         1.4    1.4    1.1    1.5    1.5
Fodder ('000 FU/ha)        0.6    0.6    0.6    0.7    0.7    1.0    0.7         0.7    1.0    0.7    0.7    1.0
Olives (t/ha)              1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0         1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Medicago ('000 FU/ha)       -      -       -      1.0    1.0      -      1.7     1.7      -      2.0    2.0      -
Green
Barley ('000 FU/ha)    0.5    0.5    0.5         -     1.0    1.0      -       1.0    1.0       -     1.0    1.0
Pasture ('000 FU/ha)       0.1    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2         0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2
Un
Irrigated:
Wheat (t/ha)               2.2    2.2    2.2    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.5         4.5    4.5    5.0    5.0    5.0
Tomatoes (t/ha            10.0   10.0   10.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   30.0    30.0   30.0   35.0   35.0   35.0
Fodder.J/ ('000 FU/ha)    3.6    3.6    3.6    5.3    4.2    4.2    6.6          4.8    4.8    7.8    5.7    5.7
Vegetables (t/ha)         10.3   10.3   10.3   16.8   15.6   16.0   24.0    21.3   22.3   33.4   27.6   29.8
1/ Crop yields for 1977 apply to crop areas with the present situation and to crop
areas with unimproved techniques for future years. Rates quoted for 1983, 1988
and 1993 apply to crop areas with improved access to inputs, credit, and
extension services.
xn



Aorli,.lt-.Al N-do,.tiloo    rith the  ftoi..t
1983                                                              1988                                                              1993
1977                                        FeSi.e                                                            Fare li.e                                                         FRO   S.*ge
Fare Si.e.ac                                        Medi-               L-Rge                       0,alS.AXt......111Mdi                                                                                  .i..
Frodoot                 ~~~~uolte  SealS    Nedi,      Lr        Total   Ui. T.   I.. T.       TT .0           U. T.   I. T.   Total    U. T.   I . 0         U.ILT.   1. T,   U. T.   I. T.   Total    U.0.   T           .-    U  T.     . T.   U. T.   I. T.   TOWO
Babi.fd
Whea                                       496     1.851      2,405   4,753        179      372      666    1,190       866    1,864   5.138          94      524      350    1,608       454    2,520   5.549          66      591      247    1,780        321   2.792   5,797
Barley                           t         217       271         68      556        78       47       98      114        25      161       522       41        66       51       165       13      234       570       29        73       36       184         9      260      592
Fodder                        '000 F0       27        60         48      135        10       12       28        26       17      397       484        5         9       11        21        9      302       538        4         4         a        8         6      5333     585
Oli_ag                           t          64       143         58      265        84       -       143        -        38        -       265       64        -       143        -        58        -       265       64        -       143        -        38        -       265
Medioago                       000o 80      -         -                                     624       -    1.093         -         -    1,717        -    1.104         -     1.955        -         -    3.059        -      1,373             2,456         -        -     3,829
FelloqdCreo  la-loy           '005 8u    291         811        777   1.879       105        -       220        -       280      397    1,002        33        -       116        -       147      503       821       39        -        82                104       536      781
Poetoe                        '000 89       51        79         90      220        16       65       24      101        32      113       355        8        82       12      128        17      146       394        6        88         9      137        12      158      409
1-rigated 
Whea               t                        51         36        50      137        19      398        13      130       18       130      699        10      590        7       195        9      197   1,008           7      713         5      237         7      268    1.214
Tateat                                     300       240        240      980      180    1,071        86      366       887      366    2,156        94   2,018         45      680        45      690    3,573        67   2,507          32      840        32      882   4,360
FOdder                        'OOO Fu       65        22         14      101        23      108        8        95        5        95      355       12       178        4       141        3      144       482         9      223         3      173         2      182      391
VOget.bl..                       t         463       222        167      852      167   1,427         80      263        60      263   2,260         88   2.647         42      490        32      504   3.801         62   3,642         30       675        22      7354   5.165
Li-etook
Beef                          li-et         41        21         10       72        15       35        8        24        4        15      100        8        56        4       44         2        29      143         1       70         3       54         1       55      169
Milk                          '000 1       328       170         80      578       118      344       61      315        29      222   1.089         62       469       22      420        15      292    1,291        44       522        33      476        11      335    1.408
Wool                             t           6          4         2        12        2        8         1        5        1         2       19         1       14         1        8        0         4       28         1       21         0       12         0        6        40
86,ttoo                       liv. t        40        22         11       72        14       67        8        38        4        19      150        8       124        4        70        2        34      243         5      175         3       99         2       48       333
I/  Yield. ti-e.- orp  reg  pdo ,ot al1sy.  qoa1 prod.otlg doe to dooble
or-ppi.8 eod/o   oe of pat of th.  -pO .o  oead..
U. T, - Ueip-Frod T..h.iqogo
1. T. - Tprovd Teohoiqooe



*                              =     -                                  *           I           V
'.4                  r                              .4    0-       0-     0-                 e'
-.             4.              5     -        -      -                  4           0.
-                                        00          -           -
4*0                                                                                             a                        -
H              .4    .4       .4     4      .4              0              0.00. 4            4
.44.4            0      0       S      0                                          '        .4*  p
00.0.           0       0.      0      0.      00                     0           0.
0.    S                                                                Z3   3It  r.t
-                            0
a              *      4        5      1     0                         .4           1   4    4    "5"
0.             0.              .4           0                                           S           5      0-
4 4 -                                                                                                                =
.4    .4                                         .4
0-44        4.4.44444.4  '0.44.44444  44444.444.4044   0.4.44              .4  .4.444.0.4 0.4.4  .444440   'I.440'00
.4 .4.40.4.4.4.4.4,4.4.4L.,.4.4    0 00.40.4.4.4 00.0.4.4.4.4 0.4 .4.4.4
400.44.40.4    .40...4.4.4  .P.4.44.4.J'0.4.4.4  00.4.4.4        -  - .4.40.44  W.4.4   0004.4.4  - ag.4=J.4
a.4                                                                        .4 .4                  .4          3                .4.
-           -
5,00  .4                                                                                                   .4  05
4..4.4.J4..4.4             .4          0-0-.404'4                               0    44.4.4.4   .4.4.40.4.4    '1 0
.4.400.4.4.4.4.4 0-...4.4.4.4.4.4....4  0
*4.4                                                           . . ...5 -
444.400444    444.4.4   '04'0
.4.4              .4          .4
.4.4              .4          .4
.4.4.4.4   .4.4.4.4   .4  .4.4.4                                 -                .4           -
:0                      0.0.0.L0000.4 0'0'0'.00044
.4  .440-            .4
.4.4. .4* . . ,  .4.4.4.4..4.    .4.4.4.4            .4.4-
.
.4.4   00'44O4  0.0M.4.4                                                                  44.4
.4.4.4.4..4 .4.4-
.4  .4.4.4.4.4.4  .4  .4.4.4  .4  .4.4-  .4
-  .4      .4.4-  .4       .4.4.4
.44'440,   .4.40  40    00    44.4  O.4   .4.40-*
04.4  .444    0-0.4  .4.4.4   .40.4  .4.44  .4.4.4   .4400
0-40  .4.44   .4.4.4  .4.4.4   .4..4.4.4
.4.4.4 .4
.4.4.4         .4.4.4        .4.4.4
.4.4.4         .4.4.4         .4.4.4        .4.4.4.4
0.4          .4.4           .4.4.4             .4
.4.4.4         .4.4.4         .4.4.4                .4.4.4.4                             .4-          -.4
.40..4  .4.4.4   4.4                                . . . ...                                                     V
000.4                               .4.4         0.4
..4
.'0.0.4 .4.4.4
'0o.4.40-.
-..4--
.4.4.4..4                                                                           frI
--.4                   .4.4.4.4.4..4  .4.4.4.4.4.4.4.4.4.4  .4.4.4  .4.4  .40.4.4.4.4
.4.4.4                                        .4.4          .4   .4     .4   .4
...44.44.440.4
.4.4   .400.4.4.4.44.4  0-0-  .4.4.40                            00  .4.40-.4.44.44.4  0-44  .4.4  .4.4.4.4  .4     .1:



- 54 -
ANNEX 5
Number of Extension Agents 1979-1983
Type of                                              Zone of       Equivalent
Agriculture      Coverage                             Influence    No. of Agents
Rainfed          1 agent/200 farmers                  550 farmers       2.75
Irrigated        1 agent/250 ha                       500 ha            2
Total number of agents required                        4.75
Proportionate /1 number of agents at present           2
Additional agents required                             2.75
/1   On provincial basis, in Le Kef:
Total length of subproject roads    =  124 km
Number of extension agents, present =    7
proposed  =   16
Additional agents  =    9



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
III. ROAD CONSTRUCTION
Forecast Daily Traffic
Animal                                                   Total
Pack   Drawn   Total   Agric.   Pass.                            Motor
Year  Animal   Cart  Animals  Tractor   Car   Pickup  Truck  Bus  Vehicles
1979   122        9      131      25        94      57      15     2      193
1983   167       12      179      36       145      86      21     3      291
1988   225       17      242      53       229    134       31     4      451
1993   335       24      359      80       410    231      46      7      774
1998   356       25     381       97       511    285      54      8      955
Proposed roadway width
Carriageway          6 m
Shoulders            2.5 m
Roadway structure
Soil class (Annex 2) = S1/S2
Base Proposed: 150 mm crushed gravel
Subbase proposed: 200 mm natural gravel
Spur roads
Width  =  5 m, structure  =  200 mm natural gravel
Construction Cost Summary
(Dinars)
Total
Clearing                                     48,195
Earthworks                                  194,870
Pavement structure                          349,420
Drainage                                      62,098
Paved fords and structures                  107,432
Signs, etc.                                      784
Subtotal                                  762,799
10% contingencies                            76,280
R.O.W. and damages                            5,000
Total (including taxes)                   844,079
Economic cost (without taxes,
including supervision)                    709,826



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Periodic Maintenance Costs
After 7 and 21 years,
Regravel base course, 100 mm = D 135,280 with taxes
or D 113,635 without taxes
After 15 years,
Reconstruct pavement and drainage = D 532,370 with taxes
or D 425,896 without taxes
Routine Maintenance Costs
Annual cost, project road 300 D/km x 21.8 km n D 6,540
spur road    110 D/km x  8.0 km - D   880
Total     D 7,420
Estimated cost of present maintenance
- 110 D/km x 21.8 km = D 2,398
Increased maintenance cost with project = D 5,022 with taxes
or D 4,218 without taxes
Salvage Value
After 30 years = D 141, 965 without taxes.



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
IV. COMPLEMENTARY AGRICULTURAL INVESTMENTS 1979-1983 A
/2
Unit    Price    Total-  Cost
with   without    with   without
Item                           Unit  Quantity    Tax         Tax       Tax      Tax
---------- Dinars -----------
Improved dairy cows             ea        65        300       270   19,500   17,550
Cowsheds                       Z.U       140        300       270   42,000   37,800
Sheepsheds /3                  Z.U       568         30        27   17,040   15,336
Medicago seeding                ha    1,441          21.1      21.2 30,473   30,525
Farmers Equipment Purchase
- 55-65 HP Tractor             ea         8      5,082    4,231   40,656   33,848
- 35-55 HP Tractor             ea         5      4,200    3,505   21,000   17,525
- Tractor tools                ea        13      3,271    2,740   45,523   35,620
Combine                      ea         2    13,000   10,757   26,000   21,514
- Fodder tools                 ea         1      5,177    4,330    5,177    4,330
Rental equipment                         None
Deepen wells                    ea        16      1,300    1,170   20,800   18,720
Drill wells                     ea        14      2,500    2,250   35,000   31,500
Well pumps                      ea        30      1,200    1,032   36,000   30,960
Milk collection center /4       ea          1    33,176   28,965   33,176   28,965
Extension Services                                                   78,682   66,119
Credit Infrastructure                                                  499       419
/1   Include investments by private farmers, and by provincial and central
governments.
/2   Without grant for medicago seeding.
/3   To house only 50% of sheep on medium farms and 100% of sheep on
large farms.
/    To serve Road 101 and Road 103.



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
V. SUMMARY OF INVESTMENT PACKAGE
Costs (dinars
including taxes)
Road Construction (including physical contingencies)             844,079
Livestock                                                         19,500
Livestock Sheds                                                   59,040
Medicago                                                          30,473
Agricultural Equipment                                           112,837
Small Irrigation Schemes                                          91,800
Extension and Credit Infrastructure                               79,181
Milk Collection Center                                            33,176
Subtotal Agricultural Investments                                426,007
Physical Contingencies on Agricultural Investments                42,601
Total Complementary Agricultural Investments                     468,608
Total Investment Package                                       1,312,687



VI. SUMMARY OF ECONIIIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Costs of             Costs of  Costs of                                              Total                         Benefits Benefits      Total
Const. &    Costs of  Compl.   Extens.             Benefits   Benefits   Benefits  Benefits Benefito  Benefits        to        to       Benefits     Grand     Total
Periodic    Routine   Agric.    Credit   Total        to         to         to        from   to Pass.  to non-Ag. Diverted Diverted   net aego.    Total    Benefits
ikint,      Maint.  Invest.      Etc.    Costs   Farmers    Consumers  Truckers  AR. Inv.  on Road    Freight    Passen.  Freight        . Aaric.  Benefits  minus Costs
1978        .0        .0         .0        .0        .0         .0        .D        .0        .0         .          .0        ,0         .0           .0        .0        .0
1979  -6896.0         .0         0         .0  -e896.0          .0        .0        .0        .0         .0        .0         .0        .0            .0        .0  -6896.0
1980        .0    -37.9   4Z16.2   -215.0   -479.1    128.5            21.6       22.9    173.0       193.0       3.0      34.7       17.7        248.4     421.4    -57.7
1981        .0    -37.9   -296.2   -215.0   -549.1          249.1       22.2      24.4    295.8      225.4        3.3      42.1       20-3        291.2    586.9        37.9
1982        .0    -37.9   -366.2   -215.0   -619.1          427.2       23.0      26.3     476.5     24.55        3.5      46.5       21.8        317.4    793.9    174.9
1963        .0    -37.9   -436.Z   -215.0   -689.1    663.4            24.0    2z.S        715.9     267.4        3.8      51.3       23.4        345.9   1061.8    372.8
1984        .c    -37.9   -506.2   -215.0   -759.1          95B.0      25.2       31.1   1014.4      291.2        4.0      56.7       25.1        377.0    1391.3    632.3
1985        .0    -37.9    -71.3   -215.0   -324.1   1311.8            26.6       34.0   1372.4      317.0        4.2      62.6       26.9        410.8    1783.2   1459.0
19S6   -985.0    -37.9    -74.7   -186.7  -1284.3   1577.7             27.7       36.8   J642.3      345.0        4.5      69.1       ze.9        447.5   2009.8    805.5
1987        .e    -37.9    -78.1   -158.4   -274.4   1867.0            29.0       39.9   1935.9      375.6        4.7      76.3       31.0        487.6   2423.5   2149.1
1938        .0    -37.9    -81.5   -130.1   -249.6   2180.1            3D.4       43.3   2253.8      408.7        5.0      84.3       33.2        S31.2   2784.9   2535.4
19e9        .0    -37.9    -85.0   -101.8   -224.7   2517.3            31.9       47.0   2596.3      444..7       5.2      93.1       35.6        578.6   3174.9   2950.2
1990        .1    -37.9      -16-3    -73.5   -127.7   2879.2          33.6       51.0   2963.8      483.9        5.4     102.7       38.2        630.3   3594.1   3466.4
1991        .0    -37.9    -16-3    -69.7   -124.0   3084.2            34.6       52.9   3171.7      677.3        5.7    164.3        55.0        897.4   4069.0   3945.1 
1992        .0    -37.9    -16.4    -65.9   -120.2   3292.0            35.6       54.9   3362.5      700.0        6.0     171.5       56.7        934.3   4316.8   l96.6
1993        .0    -37.9    -16.4    -62.1   -116.4    3502.8           36.7       57.0   3596.5      728.7        6.3     179.0      S8.5         972.6   4569.1   4452.7
1994  -4137.6         .0    -16.5    -58.3  -4212.3   3716.6           37.8       59.1   3813.5      758.5        6.6    186.9        60.3       1012.#   4825.8    613.5
1995        .0    -37.9          .0    -54.4    -92.3   3933.3         38.9      61.3   4033.5       789.5        6.9    195.1       62.2        1053.7   5037.2   4994.9
1996        .0    -37.9          .0    -50.5    -88.4   4132.3         40.1       63.2   4235.5      821.6        7.2    203.7        64.1       1096.6   5332.1   5243.7
1997        .0    -37.9          .0    -46.6    -e4.5   4332.5         41.2       65.2   4438.9      854.9        7.5    212.6        66.1       1141.2   5580.0   5495.5
1998        .0    -37.9          .0    -42.7    -80.6   4533.9         42.5      67.-   4643.5       869.5        7.8    222.0       68.1        1167.4   5B31.0   5750.4
1999        .0    -37.9          .0    -38.8    -'6.7   4736.5         43.7       69.2   4849.S      95-.4        8.1     231.7       70.2       1235.5   6085.0   6008.3
2000        -0    -37.9          .0    -38.8    -76.7   4736.5         43.7       69.2   4849.5      925.4        8.1    23i.7        70.2       1235.5   6085.0   6008.3
2001   -985.0    -37.9           .0    -38.8  -1061.7   4736.5         43.7       69.2   4849.5      923.4        8-1    231.7        70.2       1235.5   6085.0   5023.3
ZC02        .0    -37.9          .0    -38.5    -76.7   4736.5         43.7       69.2   4a49.5      925.4        8.1    231.7        70.2       1235.5   6085.0   6008.3
2003        .0    -37.9          .0    -38.8    -76.7   4736.5         43.7      69.2   4849.5       9zs.4        8-1    231.7        70.2       1235.5   6085.0   600&.3
NO.         .0    -37.9          .0    -38.8     -76.7   4736.5        43.7      69.2   464'.5       925.4        8.1     Z31.7       70.2       1235.5   6085.0   6008.3
2005        .0    -37.9          .0    -3a.8      -76.7   4736.5       43.7       69.2   4849.5      925.4        8.1    Z31.7        70.2       1235.5   608S.0   6008.3
2006        .0    -37.9          .0    -38.8    -76.7   4736.5         43.7      69.2   4849.5       92.5.4       8.1     231.7       70.2       1235.5   6085.0   600a.3
Z007        .0    -37.9          .0    -38.8    -76.7   4736.5         43.7      69.2   4844.S       925.4        e-.    231.7        70.2       1235.5   6085.0   6008.3   I
2008        .0    -37.9          .0    *38.8    -76.7   4736.5         43.7      65.2   4a49.5       925.4        8-1    231.7       70.2        1235.5   6085s.    60OR.1
2009        .0    -37.9          .0    -38.8    -76.7   4736.5         43.7      h9.2   4849.5       925.4        6.1    231.7        70.2       1235.5   6085.0   6008.3 
2010   1379.2         .0   1083.7   4773.9   7Z36.8            .0         .0        .0        .0         .0        .0         .0        .0            .0        .0   7236.8
Source: Appraisal Mission
May 1978



- 60 -
ANNEX 6
APPRAISAL OF
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
TUNISIA
Sample Farm Budget
1.        Farm budgets were made to examine future benefits from the proposed
project accruing to farmers and farmers' loan repayment capacity. The selec-
tion of typical farm models is based on considerations of environmental
conditions, dominant crops, farm size, and proposed innovations.
2.        All values of agricultural inputs and products are expressed in
early 1978 prices. The terms and conditions of investment and short-term
credit are those of Annex 3. All financial rates of return obtained are
conservative, since the "with project" yields of 1983 are held constant
during 1983-1998.
3.        The following six models were made for the provinces of Le Kef,
Siliana, and Kairouan. Model 1 is described and analyzed in this annex,
the others are available in the project file.
sawef d Iul.abl  Tta
Ara AC       t    Icologicl rt
Pkdel  Province ..)  (br) ea A    Zolo_/&   kiLfed    Irrigated    Livetack
1   La 1sf   12      2    14     b    psturt, fallow, toastoes, chilli"s, sheep
Siliana                           whbet, barley  vegetables
2   La KOf    29     -    29     C    pasture, fallow.            sheep
Siliana                          cactus, wheat,
barley
3   La 1Of    50     2    52     a    pasture, fallow, fodder, grain,    ailk, sheep
Siliana                           wheat, barley,  sorghum
fodder
4   Kirouan   a      2    10     C    wheat, berley,  vegetables,  sheep
fodder, pasture, apricots
cactus
5   KXirouan  40     -    40     C    olive, cactus,    -         sp
pasture, wheat.
barley, fodder
6   Kairou_   79     2    51     C    wheat, barley,  vable      sheep
fodder, Qlivee,  *orgp
1/   See Annex 4.



- 61 -
ANNEX 6
4.        In Model 1 the farmer's investment would consist of the construction
of a well and the introduction of medicago on fallow land. The investment of
D 4,095.00 would be- financed with investment credit according to terms and
conditions of Annex 3. In addition, the farmer would obtain short-term credit
(Annex 3) for the purchase of fertilizers and seeds, and for the renting of
agricultural equipment. The financial rate of return of the investment would
be over 16%, due to both the introduction of irrigated crops and the more
intensive use of agricultural inputs.



Model 1
Technical Coefficients/Coefficients Techniques
Without Project                     With Project
Sans Projet                       Avec Projet
Crop Area                        ---------------------- ha --------------------
Wheat                                   4                                  4
Barley grains                           1                                  1
Medicago fallow                         0                                  5
Pasture                                 2                                  2
Irrigated tomatoes                      0                                  1
Irrigated chillies                      0                                  1
Irrigated vegetables                    0                                  1
Sheep                                   2                                 15
Yields                           --------------------- T/ha -------------------
Wheat                                  0.5                               0.8
Barley grains                          0.6                               0.9
Irrigated tomatoes                       -                              25.0
Irrigated chillies                                                      10.0
Irrigated vegetables                     -                              30.0
Sheep (liveweight)                     0.025                             0.030
Wool                                   0.003                             0.004
Year 1
Number of                           Foreign           % Foreign
Units/Nombre   Unit Costs             Exchange          Exchange
d'Unites    Cout Unitaire  Local  Devises   Total  % Devises
Investment Items                            ----------------- D -----------------
Well construction                  1             2,500      1,300   1,200    2,500        48%
Pumps and pipes                    1            1,200         648      552    1,200       46%
Subtotal                                                 1,948   1,752    3,700
Medicago introduction             10 ha             20         126      74       200       37%                         X
Subtotal                                                 2,074   1,826    3,900
Physical contingencies (5 %)                                  104       91       195
Total                                                    2,178   1,917    4,095



- 63 -
ANNEX 6
Model 1 (Continued)
Income and Expenditures         1977   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1989   1994   1999
_______________________----- D ------ ------- -----------
Income:
Wheat                          140    160    180    200    200    224    224    224    224
Barley                          30       0      0       0      0       0      0       0       0
Sheep (liveweight)              20     30      50      80    130    250    250    300    300
Wool                             5       5     10      20     30      40     40      45      45
Tomatoes                         -    120    200    270    360    500    550    600    600
Chillies                         -    200    300    400    500    700    850  1,000  1,090
Vegetables                       -    200    300    400    500    500    700    750    750
Total                         195    715  1,040  1,370  1,720  2,214  2,614  2,919  3,009
Operating expenses:
Unskilled labor                 45      55    110    247    385    540    580    600    690
Skilled labor                    4     10      14      14     14      17     27      27      27
Water                            -      95     95      95     95    130    165    165    165
Animal traction                  0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0       0
Motorized traction              10    190    190    190    190    220    250    250    250
Special machinery                8     40      40      40     40      40     40      40      40
Seeds                            -     23      23      23     23      25     25      25      25
Fertilizers                     70    150    100    250    350    500    650    740    740
Pesticides                       -      10     20      20     20      30     35      35      35
Short-term credit int. (6 %)    -       -      10      10     15      15     18      18      18
Miscellaneous                    -       2      2       2      2       2       2      2       2
Total                         137    575    714    891  1,134  1,519  1,792  1,902  1,992
Net Income Before Taxes           58    140    326    479    586    695    822  1,017  1,017
Taxes (5Z of sales)               10      36     52      69     86    111    130    146    146
Net Income                        45    104    274    410    500    584    692    871    871
Cash Flow Statement
Cash Inflow:
Income                                715  1,040  1,370  1,720  2,214  2,614  2,919  3,009
Medium-term loan                        63      -       -      -       -      -       -       -
Long-term loan                      2,465       -       -      -       -      -       -       -
State grant                           970       -       -      -       -      -       -       -
Farmers' contribution                 412       -       -      -       -       -      -       -
Short-term loan                       200    200    300    300    360    360    360    360
Total                              4,825  1,240  1,670  2,020  2,574  2,974  3,279  3,369
Cash Outflow:
Operating expense 1/                  611    766    960  1,220  1,630  1,950  2,048  2,048
Investment                          4,095       -       -      -       -      -       -       -
Debt service:
Interest                            151    151    150    134    118         -       -       -
Principal                            12      12    270    270    270       90      90      90
Repayment short-term loan                -    200    200    300    300    360    360    360
Total                              4,869  1,129  1,580  1,924  2,318  2,400  2,498  2,498
Surplus (deficit)                        (44)   111      90     96    256    574    781    871
Incremental revenue                      520    845  1,175  1,525  2,019  2,419  2,724  2,724
Incremental expense                      464    619    813  1,073  1,483  1,803  1,901  1,901
Investment 2/                         4,095       -       -       -      -       -      -       -
1/ Including taxes.                                      Results:
Financial rate of return         16%
2/ Residual value of 410.                                   Sensitivity tests
Expense             +10%       12%
Investment          +10%       15%
Revenue             -10%       11%



APPRAISAL OF
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
TUNISIA
Costs of Means of Transport
(in mils of a dinar per km)
Road Surface
Motor Vehicles                          Bituminous Surface Treatment                              Gravel                                         Earth
Recently                                      Recently
Improved            Deteriorated              Improved            Deteriorated         Good Condition         Poor Condition
Vehicle                             Speed       Cost       Speed       Cost       Speed      Cost       Speed       Cost       Speed       Cost       Speed       Cost
Type             Terrain           km/hr      per km      km/hr      per km      km/hr     per km      km/hr      per km      km/hr      per km      km/hr      per km
Flat                72        49.77        60        52.36        60       57.77        50        64.46        40        71.75        30        81.23
Passenger         Flat-Rolling        72        48.85        60        52.44        60       57.85        50        64.53        40        71.82        30        81.31
car            Rolling             72        49.92        60        52.50        60       57.92        50        64.60        40        71.89        30        81.38
Mountainous         64        50.24        56        52.72        56       58.13        47        64.88        37        72.71        28        82.14
Flat                66        46.82        55       49.56        55        56.39        47        67.41        38        79.61        30        92.80
Pickup            Flat-Rolling        64        46.93        54        49.75        54       56.58        46        67.54        37        79.96        29        93.25
Rolling             62        47.02        52       50.00        52        56.83        45        67.65        36        80.30        29        93.36
Mountainous         60        47.19        50       50.33        50        57.16        44        67.84        34        80.96        27        94.21
Flat                60       88.57         50       96.63        50       112.01        44       145.63        36       181.86        30       219.25
Truck             Flat-Rolling        57        90.23        48        97.20        47      113.07         42      147.14        34       184.42         28      223.52
Rolling             54        91.07        45       99.12        45       114.50        40       148.57        32       186.86        27       225.85
Mountainous         51        92.02        43      101.00        43       116.38        37       152.51        30       190.86        25       230.52
Flat                60      127.27         50      138.88        50       155.32        44       194.08        36       235.85        30       280.57
Bus               Flat-Rolling        57       128.10        48       140.22        47      157.47        42       195.94        34       238.97        28       286.06
Rolling             54       129.65        45      142.89        45       159.33        40       197.80        32       Z42.08        27       288.91
Mountainous         51       131.76        43      144.98        43       161.42        37       202.59        30       247.80        25       294.63
Flat                24        62.43       20        69.73        20        81.45        17       109.28        14       135.30        12       161.76
Agricultural      Flat-Rolling        23        63.60        19        70.94        19       82.26         16      110.54        13       137.47        11       165.39
Tractor         Rolling             21        64.19        18        71.53        18       83.34        15       111.73        12       139.53        11       167.37
Mountainous         20        64.86        17       72.89        17        84.77        14       115.00        11       143.41        10       171.34
Animal Transport
Pack Animal 1/                                                   Animal Drawn Cart -
Provinces         Terrain                C-se                  Case 2 1/              Case 3 4/              Case 1 Z/              Case 2 3/              Case 3 4/
Flat                   23.37                  25.21                  45.34                  87.00                  95.26                 115.12
Kef and           Flat-Rolling            25.24                 27.23                  48.97                  93.96                 101.80                 124.33
Siliana           Rolling                26.17                  28.24                  50.78                  97.44                 105.57                 128.93
Mountainous            28.04                  30.25                  54.41                 104.40                 113.12                 138.14
5/       Flat                    23.07                                                               81.52
Kairouaro         Flat-Rolling            24,92                                                               88.04
Rolling                25.84                                                                91.30
Mountainous            27.68                                                                97.82
1/  A weighted average of donkeys, camels, horses and mules.
2/ Animals used to transport agricultural commodities and water and to plough.
3/ Animals used to transport agricultural commodities and water but not to plough.
4/ Animals used to transport agricultural commodities but not to transport water or to plough.
5/ Only "Case 1" animals in Kairouan.
Source: Appraisal Mission



- 65 -                            ANNEX 8
APPRAISAL OF
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
TUNISIA
Related Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
A.  General Reports and Studies on the Transport Sector
A.1 Transport Survey, Italconsult, 1969
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the. Project
Projet Pilote des Pistes Agricoles
B.1 Termes de Reference - Ministere de L'Equipement, June 1976
Rapports de SETEC - HYDRATEC-SOTUETEC-SOTINFOR
Rapport Initial
B.2 Vol. 1, Texte - April 1977
B.3 Vol. 2, Annexes - April 1977
B.4  Vol. 3, Localisation des Pistes a Etudier - June 1977
B.5 Note Complementaire - Juin 1977
Rapport de Factibilite - October 1977
Vol.1, Etudes Agronomiques,
B.6     -   LeKef, Siliana; Texte
B.7     -   LeKef, Siliana; Annexes
B.8     -   Kairouan; Texte
B.9     -   Kairouan; Annexes
-   Resultats Detailles des Calculs du Model Agroeconomique
B.10         -  Annexe 2.1 LeKef
B.11         -  Annexe 2.2 Siliana
B.12         -  Annexe 2.3 Kairouan
Vol.2, Etudes Techniques,
B.13     -   Texte
B.14     -   Annexes
B.15     -   Hydrologie-Dossier de Plans



- 66 -
ANNEX 8
Vol.3, Etudes Economiques
B.16    -   Texte
B.17    -   Annexe 1
-   Resultats Detailles des Calculs de Rentabilite
B.18        -  Annexe 2.1 - LeKef
B.19        -  Annexe 2.2 - Siliana
B.20        - Annexe 2.3 - Kairouan
Vol.4, Etude des dispositions institutionnelles
B.21    -   4.2 La Vulgarisation
B.22    -   4.3 Manuel du vulgarisateur - LeKef
B.23    -   4.4 Manuel du vulgarisateur - Kairouan
B.24         -  Manuel du vulgarisateur - Siliana
B.25 Vol.5, Dossier de Plans
Vol.6, Enquetes de Trafic
B.26    -   6.1 LeKef
B.27    -   6.2 Siliana
B.28    -   6.3 Kairouan
B.29    -   6.4 Mahdia
Dossier d'Appel d'Offres International (Provisoire) November 1977
B.30  -  Dossier A Vol.1 Soumission
B.31  -  Dossier A Vol.2 Cahier des Prescriptions
Dossier B Plans
B.32     -  LeKef
B.33     -  Siliana
B.34     -  Kairouan
Dossier C Estimation Confidentielle
B.35     -  LeKef
B.36     -  Siliana
B.37     -  Kairouan



- 67 -
ANNEX 8
C. Selected Working Papers
C.1 Identification and Preparation Mission Report, H. Beenhakker
et al. February 19, 1976
C.2 Methodology for Preparation and Appraisal of proposed rural
roads project, H. Beenhakker, July 1977.






TUNISIA
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY
OF PUBLIC WORKS AND
HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
L    MANDSTER D
|UNDEFtSECRIETARY|
DIRECT                                     
OTHER                           H  -ltGiSWAY 
DEPARTMENS          M             DEPARTMENT
ADM| AINISTRATIVE
A,ND ACCOUNIN
SERVICE     
HEADQtJARTERS DIVISIONS
PROGRhMS  | M~AINDEAC          MAJOF.A                        STUDIES         LABORATORY       MAINTENANCE
OPERATIONS        PROJECTS      _          _ _           _TA
t IELD DIVISIONS
| TUNtS   | | BIZERTE      SOUSSE         SFAX          KEF           GABES       KAIROUAN       NASEUL        MONASTlR|    GAFSA          KASSERINE
Tunis         Bizerte       Sousse       StaK Ief                     aes_ Kairouan             _Nbeul          Monastir      Gafsa
Beja         Mahdia                      ieudouba      Medenine       Siliana       Zaghouan
Sbeitla
World Bank - 18it4






TUNISIA
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year           1978                       1979                      1980                       1981                       1982                       1983
1     2     3      4      1     2      3     4      1      2     3      4      1     2      3     4      1      2      3     4      1    .2       3     4
RURAL ROAD VVORKS                                                                 
Group 1        Prequalify Contractors                                                                   L
Evaluate Prequalification
Prepare Bid Documents             *         
Call Tenders
Evaluate Tenders
Approve Award
Execute                                                                     --
Group 2        Prepare Bid Documents
Call Tenders
Evaluate Tenders
Approve Award
Execute-                                                                                             -                   m
Group 3        Prepare Bid Documents
Call Tenders                                                                                                                         M
Evaluate Tenders
Approve Award
Execute                                                                                                                                             _      _      _
MAINTENANCE AND WORKSHOP EQUIPMENT
Prepare Bid Documents
Call Tenders
Evaluate Tenders
Approve Award
Deliver
EXTENSION SERVICES
Train Extensionists
Install Extension Cells                                 _
Provide Extension Services                              _
CREDIT
Provide Credit                                         _  _
FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
Construct Collection and
Equipment Facilities                                                                                _                       I               _     m                              I -
Purchase Agricultural Equipment                                                                       -     -      -            -      -      -                          - _
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Consulting Services
Source: Appraisal Mission-
World Bank-18505






TUNISIA
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION
MINISTER OF   J
PUBLIC WORKS
CHEF DE CABINET
MINISTRY OF           I
AGRICULTURE
COORDINATING
COMM ITTEE
-  ~~0 o                                  mv~
_    _S    wo    ss dh                                  __
DIRECTOR OF          DIRECTOR OF            TUNISIAN              DIRECTOR
AGRICULTURAL  PiCO      LMCANALISIS          NATIONAL              HIGHWAY     j
PRODUCTION       AENOD IRCOJECTS              BANK             DEPARTMENT
REGIONAL
AGRICULTURAL        SEMI-AUTONOMOUS           BRANCH                 FIELD
DEVELOPMENT         ORGANIZATIONS            OFFICES              DIVISIONS
COMM ISSIONS                                    .
T                    F                     t
-- - ------    _____j-
inLine Authority
_ _ _Project Authority
- -  -Regional Liason                                             World Bank - 18872






TUNISIA
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION
MINISTER OF
PUBLIC WORKS
CHEF DE CABINET
MINISTRY OF                       I
AGRICULTURE
COORDINAT ING
COMMITTEE
|DIRECTOR OF            DIRECTOR OF   1        TUNISIAN          DIRECTOR
AGRICULTURAL          PLANNING              NATIONAL       JHIGHWAY
PRODUCTION       ECONOMIC ANALYSIS           BANK             DEPARTMENT
L     K          ~~~~AND PROJECTSBAKLDPRMN
REGIONAL                                 I                   i       r
AGRICULTURAL       SEMI-AUTONOMOUS          BRANCH                FIELD
DEVELOPMENT         ORGANIZATIONS           OFFICES             DIVISIONS
COMM ISSIONS
-                      _ -                  ______J
LiIIIIIIILine Authority
_ m Project Authority
- - -Regional Liason                                            World Bank - 18872






IBRD 13318
l                                              - 9 > T~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                          TU N IS 51A
Med t<rr                                                                              -                 -                               A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
7                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREAS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ El''M^X^h
-        ar dUface Rhads
MZosrah ~~~~~~  ~ ~              Beni   "~~~~~~~ct ~EafTh and Gravel Roade
Grmba            Kholled k?rto         |                              ored Ctassifitatobn
or                 nIP/BhPraimays
uAraInternat  imonal Bounrdaries
so                                                                   0       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  20  30  40O  Bi 0  7?    SO
-36 -i
-                            El Diem                Ctobb            j
0;t.8IERKENVA ISLANDS
.,  /      >        G        o                IBRD 13327            _ =_= c\    iRSvBRD13
Tamerz o          Redeyef =-=\
rp 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
--         ------                                                                        )                                                                            tISLAND OF OEPBA
--------    -                                                                                                                                Dl <or     g l        fr
6                          Matmctc T           "       c /f) Ma                                     Is
(                                                                /                           r    lX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eder,s/e 0_-3
Tunisic                                                                                             Beni Khedache t
Goumrassen  a spr             *
t1 I C A tg T --t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L I B Y A
*                         This map has beent prepared by the Won/d Bank s scoff oncloO,vefY for the conventence  so 
\   \  |                ~~~~~~~of the readers of she retport to whoPh it tt attached Thte denominatons ustted an t the I 
hoondelas sho-  on Pt/ mp do notocply, on sh p-r of the Wofd Bank anI to
*,  ,          a ffih-  --iett.siOd Ota-t-  h. li n of  .nitor ,torioianyandnrsamentor
ac-eptan-e of -ch  -oondaria-
B                                                                                                    IOq  \   10-               Remada                                                             MARCH  1978






-5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
TUNISo                                                                1                                       TUNISIA
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Roads and Zones
W   J                   .                                                                                             of Influence in Le 4(ef
5,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~Project Rural Roads
0        T U N I SIA                          1L/                                                    1                       Boundary of Zone of Influence
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EKFHard Surface Roads
-Jy
,0:    GGafst                                              -                                                                Gravel Roads
.. z <j ( / \ }D >> \/2{9  1    1Railways
"34-'-                                                                                         Rivers
oKebit GaSes
\   /2107    /    |            ~ ~ ~ 0  / oz g/!ol   \\   ,-'                                         X        \^ _~~~~10    /
\46,4  )~~~7                                                                     101/1 /   /"     
,c\   \   \\  SJ  g/   Ksour/ |                                 5
g \ \\ t~~~~~~Todierouine /j<V
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS\  \
I       I                                                                                                                       -_
[ttD






To Medjez e/ blb Bo
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IF 
Teboursouc                                                                                                                                       A Fl Aroussa  MC47
El~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lFh
rC,9/:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ti map he b\npgen yteWd dk tf nhnol o h nunnu
-               T  9    \                \\    \    _-   /                        t                                        >    0d  S                   l~202  T
of thn -eder of the Wdut Ce edh t a thd  -  amen- u-d and the
\bn@dannes ahown o- fhis p d -  P     Wad B8nk and it
-y,,taay jdgment n- th. .. 1.f-  --  -yend--enetto
SILta,                    <              Pr~~~~ofec Infueoc  ind Zonesna                                 T U N I S I A                 2
\--- Boundary of Zone-of Influence        - b- G- o
/ - -                                         \                                                                                                                                    1 Hard Surface Roads   . ,,wR     
SILIAN                                                  P              KI RLOMETEnRS      Zones






A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Roads and Zones           402
of Influence in West Kairouan
I    /   s-            Project Rural Roads     - - - -i --
Boundary of Zone of Influence     .                                AreaolMap
,/       \                Hard Surface Roads
Gravel Roads
-+--f+-I--  Railways                   |.                              oGofsa
L-~-.    3   Cro\tRivers
\, \ / / j_ 3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~Chofts                                                                                       34. iGres
,   /   >   O    4     8      i2    1 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h -| Wtrd7h- b.- ffp,e/p.,dsvh by ah  oKebili   @
J   )              ~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS        Th tht-otohci.srahd  G":" th
.   {   '     -NEC - ~~~Mr46                                             d \    -t-p., -'h.pd fthf    T U N  ISIA        t-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W.d B-k ,d i'% fff-     IY                                        S
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Id- -//            th, 1.g l   .1
,&EI~~~~~~~~~AD Ala  a\-                                     .,-p. f.- b.         \fi-
407~/                     l                  46      /     <            \                                     % 
0    D TrozzaQ   a:                     X nz oo841  V    <   8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0






TUNISIA
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Project  Roods  and   Zones                  - <        I 
GP12 .t7    \J  oof Influence  in East  Kairouan
4) 0
A                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project Rural Roads     ISue
Boundary of Zone of Influence                                        tt I     B55
_________ \Hard Surfoce Roads
-  -  -   Gravel Roads
Tracks                                         ~1
--s-t-Railways
| <             ,- -     *------                                                                               Rivers - - Rivers
-/   ~~~~~t   }  ^ >  9\          %\                              >            3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Chotts                      -Gle&g                             -- 
G. bee
/   \>( '   /       \         \                    <   =  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~0    4    et    1 2    16                             K.l 
_ / / \ / \ 5->C-- -- = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS. .
----      -------- - - -tt- r-
_ , \ \; zt \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T    U    N    I  S I 1
406~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
}   a         \\                            \>                                                   ''''''''':.gk.S,           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100   ,A,
/t5btl   .0e          1ySi Amor                                                                                         \                      I
p   bou Hadjila    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~p. - -:          N. ~~~~~~Souassi
5~~~~~~~~~~
///~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-f #//                                                                                                           Al \\        /\0
IE Diem
lool t\//    {                       \                                                        Chorbone
404                                                          \/                                                      
'6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
This map has bees. trpared by the Word Basko staf e-cl--oy for the soeeo   
f'5  |  |   t  \  @  1 :  @ of the  reeders of the repoN to which It ls atStached t@Thof th  reaers o the eportto whohh, is atache   The  eeomsat,oo sas  asd heCl
T Io,daarfirs shoerdr-s- th,-ompd-o-not ,mply, olfh.sthe partfthe WorldBask-andto  10
aftltaee  asljdgment as the legalstatu  of as- esoy s-.Yol asp endoromes or
-cetsro uh bo-daries                                               3"






501                                               TUNI SIA 
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Roads and Zones of Influence in
South Kairouan and Sidi Bouzid  x      lb
404                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~idi Amor
-  404-  Project Rural Roads                                                                              bou Hadiila
--Boundary of Zone of  Influence  Hadjeb el Ao    
Hard Surface Roads)t  i e
----- Gravel Roads                  /                             pt J Si Nasr Allah
- - - - - - Trccks        <>         ,,                                    f       __               ,
_    Rivers/                                     /                                      ,/
A  X    08X                              \ \  I <   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TUN 15<
|   //t   F >    X                                        /  j        1 S  ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U N IS I A 
r / t } ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  /  Aea of Map F 
/  \         u d a                  (  /      -/ ~~esoud
/   >  \\      / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-P 13~id7
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h <    / / t  --  h. a:=d: f
zD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t-a /-Y\\\t-W,4                           12    16 /
cs  Jro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~od              657s<          Th      -d -d KlhOErR  






.  W  0  -  .  D  .. Rt . - :<r$ f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1ozorrrrat .e
$  5.~~~~~ .,::    r                             :                     '/<                                                                                                                   r-
P 3~ ~ ~ ~~4
TUNISIA X2.2.L    R A A-
I            -~~~~j  i
Lo32                                                                                                                            w:-.:.- 54-\. -:
,4 1 4                                                                                                                                        \-         7 / g
t     W               U  N    I                                                                                                                                                                                                    - I  A
l r nb < - t + \ AB..                                                                                                                                                               ' en4rai        e 
TrSgif f dzfiraf.ft feX6A^TUeWos_ U 4 . - S . S - . t o 9 4. - fs 12 16~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                             12         1
.                                       t    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.    e".. F                                                  ,      '            .                        :.1           '.      1.       .   -        I        _






TUNISc
MC71
-   -    -T -/  -   - '- - -  -   -   -   -     -    - - -             o t -  -    -
'0                                                                                                                                           N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h
___ ,/---                                       -,                                                                                    \                                   Koi,,,,,uan
Kalaa Dierda,                                                                                                                   U N  I S I A
@   \   tto   <   \  k  @?3?>  7  |bo 3<-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mtt ~    o
-    i                             /                                        \                        50
?                                          ))l                                                                         502sag5eI                                        s etirsvl    O 
TALA 
-, < | 5/                                         C                                              / >'~' @ &S6i6
N                  -zz                                                                   UA   OD   RJC 
-  ,                 - lHord                                       Surfoce Roods5 0                                1
0jTo\  5
xf                          -h-- Internotical                                          a bee pep-d by th.
The d--.y,nti-t  -od and tt.
WodId Bank nod t ayi/,att  n
503    Project Rural Roads               ~~~~KILOMETERS
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
Hard Surface Roads~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O a
Gravel Roacis~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n a
Tracks~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-






658
f-                  \                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T U N I S I A/
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Roads in East Sidi Bouzid
and Gafsa                                                 651
Bir El Af et                                                   602    Project Rural Roads
__________ Hard Surface Roads
Gravel Roads
Tracks
------Railway                       Er Regueb3
Rivers                                /                           iaerte
0 9                         ts      0                                           J~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/    \  I t|ty 
/                     ~~~~~~~~~~~TUNI$
0       /      U     $ ,8 1,  1                   6526              oeK e               -
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U N 1   S I A
02                  G,;-'             
ThKs map hs bn prepred by the
World  -ak   tf   -Zlniey  o
th0 /psr t 5h,nh tia attayheS
Majoura                                                                                                           The d-e-o,o,n usd an the
a07 654b-dr S4                                                      o thi mp
do nmply, on the pe   f the w
World Bank and- to rlm-eo on
603                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~judgment on the legal stato nf
ony territoy or any eod-rsmet
ornrpau   f.-oh b-udarit
70560
706  ~~~~~~~~'1~~~~60
01~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~N0
50                                                                                                                                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~640
so    (A               704                                                                                                                               laS
ID~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 6






T U N I S I A                                                                       8irElAfey                                                                        "B,e
A RURAL ROADS PROJECT                                                                                                                        661                                             TUN15   r
Project Roads in West Sidi Bouzid
and   Gofso                                                                                                                                                       oLeK.f
660
Project Rural Roads                                                                                                                                                               Sous,eo      L
-       -   Hard Surface Roads
Gravel Roads                                                                                               660                                                     T U N I S I A
Tracks
-----Ra i way                             NKsor Ouergha                                                                                                                        1                   /
Rivers                                                                                                                                Haouita
659                                                                                                           Area of Mop
0         4         8         12         16                                                /
KILOMETERS
602
l S Scli A,ch 
Madjene El Fedi                                                                                                   607
0Dech El Mojoura
55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
\\\Ss 1's\\ / : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~65S01  t604
0\o     \/                         \'                                                                                                                                                                       Meich
5 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
4  <        \           'I                        /                                             7     0     2 \\/                           04 /
~~~ \\   21)   / ~~~~~~~~~~Zannnc                                                                                  Sened
;t'>    \\             /                                     _  
N"'\ /5  /    \  701
>                                                                                                                        Fili, "P h- b-    by lb. W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Id B-V~~~~~~TindodhoVWe oeo,d-rth-Wl Bok tyf elo,oS tn h thee,OO
of he  aes  om  tph es retS porret to ohhe iWrri,s attaricheds The dtenoe,inat,ons rsed and thes
b-oundrli s*hon n       ntth,s ma^P  Wn notnotry,on the eonothe,r W k orsldabendor 
i  GAFSA n  , / >/  /                                                                                                               -cceP-ance -f-h suchb-underSt f






fX  =              C         0   -ff<r > _   _X  0oW *t+   -9''"NS,t--'7    '- ''-. 
Bechri   _           Menchia
t:X0:===Si:X:ff: TVN-FSIAS - =  :ze-C: -                       :=                              -t06
A 'RURAL ROADS ROIEC-T
804
Project Rural Roods                                                               ---                      El Boioz
Hard Surface Roads
~0-= ---   Gravel Roods
          -g=a= == Trocks                                                                                                        803
Chotts
------ far ~ ~ ~        ~          ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        --.~T
-a                 12 --  r: = = =--                                         f-                    -h                      7
-            .-- --- -------
f = ~~~--00fV=Cf   --3-=-   -==f=-2==2=t-- =----       -= == - ~-nsWg~-~-_---tn
DX it - f:= iV=9 W; 0 =gL=; . 7= - - 7S===S=ySSA=A=; =SmaS - ==- - = X X=X$a tUmoD0: 9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ . -_
= |t 4 _ X 9 _ 9/ 9 / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TUNIS< 
~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ g SR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hin mop boo  bee, p                            aodbys the
) > = cf / { /802 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bonkes Otaff wcoloejeelY hor    "'                                             Area of MA lp 
--   --------               or ine~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th enmnainsueded h
> C  ~$do not impy  ov the po e  f the. _
< 1_ 1 / S Sobria /uds/ment on rh Iesta/ sr rus of 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1ogmntonth lealottu o
or eonyeptonYerostnsyuechbosndaneie  N                          A.,-tXKr
ui~~~~~~~~oytatc rm  noemn
on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                                                   T100I 



