Document of
FILE COPY                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2303-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
June 2, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation. I



CURRENCY UNIT - Tunisia Dinar (D)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The
rate used in the appraisal report, which approximates the current
rate, is:
D 1         -   US$ 2,3
D 1,000     -   US$ 2,300
D 1,000,000 -   US$ 2,300,000
US$ 1       -   D 0.435
Fiscal year       January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
BNT   -  Banque Nationale de Tunisie
(Tunisian National Bank)
CRDA  -  Commissariat,Regional de Developpement
Agricole (Regional Field Division) of MA
DPA   -  Direction de la Production Agricole (Agricultural
Production Department) of MA
DPAEP -  Direction du Plan, de l'Analyse Economique et des
Projects (Planning Department) of MA
DPC   -  Direction des Ponts et Chaussees (Highway Department)
of MPW
MA    - Ministry of Agriculture
MPW   -  Ministry of Public Works
MTC   -  Ministry of Transport and Communications



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Public Works (MPW)
Ministry of Agriculture (MA)
Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT)
Amount:              US$32 million in various currencies.
Terms:               The loan would be repayable in 17 years, including a
4-year grace period, on a level principal payment basis;
interest at 7.5 percent per year; commitment charge of
3/4 of one percent on the principal amount of the loan
not withdrawn.
Project
Description:         The project would establish a pilot scheme for raising
tie agricultural production and standard of living in
rural areas by improving about 1,000 km of rural roads
togetlher with complementary agricultural investments. It
would provide credit to farmers, improvements to extension
servilces, purchases of rural road maintenance equipment,
and technical assistance to the Ministries of Public Works
and Agriculture. Main benefits from the project would be
in the form of assured and less expensive transport of
essential agricultural inputs and crops, and increases of
farm income and employment. Realization of the expected
benefits will depend heavily on the timely implementation
of a variety of investments and activities by a number of
agencies, on the pace of farmer acceptance of proposed
improvements and innovations, and on access to credit by
low income farmers.
Estimated Cost:                                    US$ Millions
Foreign        Local       Total
Rural roads improvements              20.2          30.3         50.5
Road maintenance equipment             4.4           1.0          5.4
Agricultural facilities
and equipment                        4.8           4.3          9.1
Investment credit                      6.9          10.3         17.2
Short-term credit                      2.0           5.2          7.2
Extension services                     1.6           1.2          2.8
Technical assistance                   1.0           0.4          1.4
40.9          52.7        93.6
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:                                        US$ Millions
Foreign        Local        Total
Bank                     35.3 /1          -          35.3 /1
Government                -             36.4         36.4
BNT                       5.6            8.5         14.1
Sub-borrowers              -             7.8          7.8
40.9          52.7         93.6
/1  Including $3.3 m. to be financed under Second Agri-
cultural Credit.  (Loan No. 1340-TUN.)
Estimated
Disbursements:                                         US$ Millions
Bank FY       1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual               0.4    3.4   10.9    5.3    5.9    6.1
Cumulative           0.4    3.8   14.7   20.0   25.9   32.0
Rate of Return:       Between 11 percent and 27 percent (for 18 road sections so
far appraised).
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 1990a-TUN dated June 2, 1978
EMENA CPIIB
June 2, 1978



INTERNATIONAL ]BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EX]ECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Tunisia for the equivalent of US$32 million to help
finance a rural road project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, includ-
ing 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A special economic mission visited Tunisia in December 1976 to
review the draft Tunisian Fifth Plan, 1977-1981. A special economic report
entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Tunisia, Review of the Fifth
Development Plan, 1977-81" (No. 1539-TUN) was issued on May 2, 1977. Country
data sheets are attached in Annex 1.
3.        Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with natural resources, but it is
close to European markets and has large untapped labor reserves and tourism
potential. Much of the country is arid or semi-arid and there is an acute
shortage of surface water. Most of the agricultural activity is concentrated
along the coast, in Northern Tunisia and in a few oases. The main crop is
wheat, which is subject to sharp year-to-year fluctuations because of irregular
rainfall. The main export crop is olives, but good olive harvests are also
subject to a natural output cycle. Tunisia's most important raw materials are
phosphates, petroleum and natural gas. However, except for phosphates, proven
deposits are relatively small. Tunisian phosphate rock is of low quality and
exploitation costs are comparatively high. The production and export of
petroleum have become increasingly important. Recently, deposits of natural
gas were discovered off-shore in the Gulf of Gabes, which might become
important for the future development of the country. Industrial development,
albeit quite impressive, haLs been hampered by a shortage of industrial entre-
preneurs and skilled labor. The service sector, a quarter of which consists
of government administraticon, remains the most important one, generating about
half of GDP in 1976. Tourism has developed rapidly and workers' remittances
have become a significant item in the balance of payments. Tunisia has
enjoyed a large amount of e!xternal aid and used it to expand economic and
social infrastructure, broaden the industrial base, make available a wide
range of social and welfare services to a large part of the population, and
increase the rate of growth.
4.        Tunisia's overal]L economic performance during 1970-76 has been excel-
lent. Real GDP grew at an average annual rate of 9 percent, about twice as
fast as during the 1960's. GNP per capita reached $840 in 1976, which in real



- 2 -
terms is 60 percent above its level in 1969. The shift in policy orientation
from the centrally controlled inward-looking investment strategy of the 1960's
to a freer export-oriented economy and the drive towards industrial develop-
ment proved highly beneficial for the country. Two other factors also contri-
buted to this performance: favorable weather conditions resulted in good
agricultural crops and the change in world commodity prices during 1973/74
brought sizable windfalls. National savings during 1970-76 were high and
on average amounted to about 22 percent of GNP. Savings, however, originated
mainly in the private sector and Government, and they were temporarily boosted
by favorable changes in petroleum and phosphate prices since 1973. Public
enterprises, as a group, did not make a contribution to national savings that
was commensurate with their importance in the economy, primarily because their
sale prices were not raised sufficiently to reflect cost increases. National
savings financed about 85 percent of investment during the period. Tunisia's
dependence on external financing declined sharply from about 32 percent of
investment in 1969 to 21 percent in 1976. The balance of payments had been
in continuous overall surplus since 1967, but in 1975 and 1976 this was no
longer the case as the terms of trade deteriorated while imports continued to
increase.
5.        Tunisia has made impressive social gains.  By 1976, primary school
enrollment had reached 90 percent, and secondary enrollment 20 percent of the
relevant age-groups. Public health services have been expanded with many pro-
vided free. A family planning program has been introduced and has met with
considerable success. Attempts have been made to tackle regional imbalances
and to improve income distribution. Total social expenditures during 1970-76
increased by about 10 percent per annum and on average accounted for 9 percent
of GDP and for 30 percent of total public expenditures. Nonetheless, major
social issues remain.
6.        The most important problem facing the Tunisian economy is widespread
open and hidden unemployment. Employment creation was one of the main objec-
tives of the Fourth Plan. Chiefly because of the Government's generous incen-
tives to - and the consequent growth in - labor intensive private investment,
the planned creation of new jobs was exceeded by 37 percent. However, some
form of unemployment still affects close to one third of the labor force
(about 22 percent of the non-agricultural labor force was unemployed in 1976
and about 40 percent of the agricultural labor force was under-employed). In
1976 there were some 265,000 people unemployed, 54 percent of whom were seek-
ing employment for the first time. An increasing number of young people born
during the high birth rate years are reaching working age. This is of major
concern to the authorities, especially since the European outlets for Tunisian
surplus labor have been all but closed, and an increasing number of women is
joining the labor force.
7.        Income distribution seems to have improved since 1966 in the wake of
increased employment creation, minimum wage legislation, tax exemptions and
family allowances for low income earners. The real impact of these measures
was safeguarded as domestic price inflation during 1966-76 was kept to an aver-
age of 4.0 percent, mainly because of strict credit and price controls and



- 3-
government subsidies for basic consumer goods, housing and services.  The
increased standard of living during the period is reflected in the reduced
share of food expenditure in the average household budget and in the increased
share of housing expenditure. The share of the population living in absolute
poverty declined from 30 percent in 1966 to 18 percent in 1975. Because of
great internal migration, the majority (55 percent) of the population below the
absolute poverty line now lives in urban areas. Important disparities continue
to exist between the income levels along the coast and in the interior. Per
capita income in the poorest region amounts to about one third that of the
richest region and that of the rural population to about half that of the
urban.   Existing efforts to distribute the fruits of development more evenly
among regions are still embryonic and insufficient to overcome the attraction
of the capital and the coast.
8.        During 1970-76, agriculture provided about half of total employ-
ment, 27 percent of merchandise exports and 21 percent of GDP. Food process-
ing accounted for another 3 percent of GDP and over a third of value added in
manufacturing. During this period agricultural production rose substantially,
largely as a result of favorable weather. Large infrastructure investments
were made during the last decade. Current policy emphasizes projects that
make a rapid and direct contribution to production and recognizes various
constraints on agricultural development: absentee ownership, insecurity of
tenure, inadequate access to agricultural credit, inadequate extension ser-
vices, insufficient agricultural education, and underutilization of irrigation
investments. Under the Fourth Plan, about $140 million has been allocated to
a rural development fund which has been executed by the provincial adminis-
trations.
9.        During the 1960's, manufacturing production in Tunisia increased by
8 percent annually. There has been a remarkable acceleration of growth in the
1970's due in part to record years for the olive oil processing industry and
to favorable developments in the textile and chemical industries. The early
thrust of industrialization was supplied by large import substitution projects.
These suffered, however, from the limited domestic market and shortages of
experienced staff and management. More emphasis has been put on export-
oriented private industries since 1970. Under the Fourth Plan, private
manufacturing investment, particularly in food processing, textiles, fertili-
zers and metals transformation, was expected to average D 25 million per year,
compared with D 12 million in 1972 and to account for two-thirds of total
investment in manufacturing; these targets have been exceeded. Foreign and
domestic private investment is now stimulated by a comprehensive incentive
framework, and facilitated by the streamlined approval procedures of the
investment promotion agency. Foreign investors are expected to contribute
know-how and overseas marketing. A new agreement between Tunisia and the
European Community was signed in April 1976. Although it provided for duty
free entry into the countries of the Community of nearly all Tunisian
industrial products, new restrictions have recently been imposed. The Govern-
ment has established a special fund to encourage growth of small industries
and industrial decentralization, and has started a program to establish
industrial estates.



- 4 -
10.       The development of tourism in Tunisia is relatively recent.  Foreign-
visitor arrivals reached 1 million in 1976, with an average annual rate of
growth during 1970-1976 of 15 percent, -- sharply higher than that of the
Mediterranean tourism market as a whole. Since 1970, earnings from tourism
have been a major source of foreign exchange, having reached $338 million in
1976, more than twice the earnings from all manufacturing exports and slightly
more than petroleum exports. The rapid development of tourism in Tunisia has
unfortunately not been accompanied by adequate development of infrastructure
(particularly recreational facilities), trained manpower and services. The
Government is endeavoring to alleviate these constraints through a variety
of measures, including revised investment incentives, increased marketing and
training efforts, codes to enforce quality standards and more stringent zoning
laws.
11.       The main objectives of the current Fifth Development Plan (1977-81)
are (i) full employment of the additional labor force, (ii) self-sufficiency
in major foodstuffs, defined as a balanced trade account for agricultural
goods, (iii) increases in the standard of living, and (iv) social stability
through incomes policies and wage and price harmonization. To reach these
objectives, the Plan foresees an average annual rate of real GDP growth of 7.6
percent, the same as the one achieved during the Fourth Plan. This growth is
to be generated by investments projected at D 4.2 billion ($9.8 billion) in
current prices during the Plan. In real terms average annual investment would
be 54 percent greater during 1977-81 than during the preceding Plan, but owing
to the high investment level reached in 1976, its annual growth would be 3
percent only in real terms. The Fifth Plan's strategy emphasizes in particular
export-oriented industrial development and agricultural growth. Special atten-
tion will be given to employment creation and to balance of payments considera-
tions. Substantial investments are to be made in hydrocarbons, manufacturing,
water development, transport and housing. The Plan prescribes increased
domestic production and processing of Tunisia's mineral resources (phosphates,
petroleum) to export as much as possible. Extraction and distribution of the
newly discovered offshore gas deposits in the Gulf of Gabes rank prominently
among the list of major projects. This gas is to be used to substitute for
petroleum based fuels that would be freed for export. Eventually gas would
also be used as an input for the chemical industry. Private sector initiative
is expected to dominate investment in textiles, mechanical and electrical
industries and tourism. In these activities the authorities primarily expect
employment creation to take place. Education and training programs are to be
expanded sharply to meet more adequately the economy's skilled manpower needs
and workers' expectations for upgraded jobs. The strategy proposed for the
Fifth Plan does not represent any major departure from the strategy pursued
successfully during the preceding Plan.
12.       Tunisia's existing resource base, its institutional and infrastruc-
tural framework, its excellent performance in the earlier part of this decade,
and the desire of the authorities to promote further development and to sup-
port it with appropriate policy measures and institutions, are fundamental
ingredients pointing towards continued rapid economic growth during the Fifth



- 5 -
I-an.  The 7.6 percent target set for the average annual real growth of GDP
in the Plan is in line with the possibilities of the Tunisian economy. The
investment priorities formi'lated in the Plan are considered necessary to sup-
port the sectoral strategies. There are some less favorable signs, however.
Tunisia's development recentLy benefited from the structural changes in world
market prices and excellent weather conditions. It would be unreasonable to
expect that these fortuitous factors will continue to work in Tunisia's favor
to the same extent as in the past. Substantial efforts in domestic and ex-
ternal resource mobilization will therefore be of crucial importance to finance
the planned level of investmient. On the domestic side, there is a great need
for increased savings and improved financial intermediation. The Government
sector, in particular, will again be called upon to contribute substantially
to the savings effort. The Plan suggests that this should be done by prudent
expenditure policies and increased revenue collections (selective tax increases
and better tax collection). In addition, the public enterprise sector will
have to increase substantially its contribution to public savings through
management improvements, and especially through cost-related increases in the
sale prices of selected enterprises. Externally, Tunisia would have total
financing requirements (disbursement basis) of some $3.5 billion during 1977-81.
Given the country's creditworthiness, it seems reasonable to assume that Tunisia
should be able to mobilize such an amount without putting undue strain on the
country's debt servicing capacity (para. 14).
13.       Since the early 1960's, Tunisia has obtained relatively large amounts
of official aid. A Consultative Group chaired by the Bank has provided a
forum for aid-coordination among major donors (see para. 22). During 1970-76,
annual loan commitments from public sources averaged $177 million, or about
$33 per capita. About 72 percent of these commitments came from bilateral
public sources, chiefly from France, Canada, and the Federal Republic of
Germany. About 20 percent came from oil-producing countries, whose share
rapidly increased from 8 percent in 1970 to 21 percent in 1976. Commitments
from the Bank Group during 1970-76 accounted for 24 percent of total public
commitments. Most aid has been obtained on concessionary terms; during
1970-76, the average terms cf borrowing from bilateral sources were 3.5
percent interest and 23 years to maturity, including 6 years of grace; from
multilateral sources, they were 6.0 percent interest and 26 years to maturity,
including 5 years of grace. During the same period, Tunisia also received
annually some $43 million in grants. Loan commitments from private sources
averaged $35 million a year. Direct foreign private investment has been com-
paratively small, but recently it has picked up momentum following increased
activity in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign in-
vestors in manufacturing. T'hus, net direct foreign investment increased from
$19 million in 1970 to $63 million in 1976.
14.       At the end of 1976, total foreign debt disbursed and outstanding
was estimated at about $1.3 billion or 27 percent of GDP, compared with
some 40 percent in 1970. The debt service ratio in 1976 was 8.3 percent,
compared with 20 percent in 1970. This significant decline in the debt ser-
vice ratio was mainly due to the sharp increase in export earnings following



the changes in world market prices in 1973/74. In the future, the external
borrowing requirements of the 1977-81 Plan (para. 12) will again increase debt
service obligations in relation to exports, to around 13.3 percent by 1981 and
16.9 percent by 1986 according to current Bank projections. While these are
relatively high levels, debt service would be a manageable burden on the eco-
nomy and balance of payments, particularly when considering Tunisia's long
record of prudent and skillful external debt management. Tunisia is considered
creditworthy for further Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
15.       Since 1962, Tunisia has received a total of thirty-one loans and
eleven credits amounting respectively to $439.4 million and $70.1 million, net
of cancellations. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1978, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. While disbursements of some loans and credits have been
slower than foreseen at appraisal, on the whole, project execution has been
satisfactory. As of December 31, 1977, total disbursements amounted to 71
percent of initial appraisal forecasts, and to 85 percent of revised forecasts.
In a number of sectors, important institutional improvements have been achieved
and independent agencies have been created or strengthened.
16.       The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to (a) increase employment, (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups, (c) promote export-
oriented policies and investments, and (d) provide selective support for the
development of infrastructure and for institution building in key public serv-
ices. The main supporting feature of this lending strategy is to encourage
the Tunisian authorities in timely and well-coordinated preparation of proj-
ects, with emphasis on technical assistance. The Bank is also cooperating
with the Government in its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic
and foreign resources, in part through encouraging project cofinancing; the
latter is particularly important in view of the extent of Tunisia's external
resource needs, the large size of many priority projects, and the limited
availability of Bank resources relative to the country's needs.
17.       Within this broad framework, past Bank Group lending has emphasized
support for long-term investments in infrastructure and social development.
Lending for urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage,
education, family planning and the Tunis urban planning and public transport
project has accounted for 30.4 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia
since 1971. Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure has
accounted for 18.6 percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 20.4
percent of total commitments. Industrial and hotel financing through the
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) has accounted for 23.6
percent, and the Gafsa phosphate development project received 7 percent of
total commitments.



- 7 -
18.       The Bank has financed seven projects in the transportation and
six projects in the agricultural sectors in Tunisia, totaling $92 million
and $92.2 million respectively. In the transportation sector, these projects
include two highway projects, a railway project, a pipeline project and two
ports projects. With the exception of the last highway project still under
execution, all have been completed satisfactorily. Bank financing of highway
projects in Tunisia has so far aimed to modernize heavily travelled trunk
roads, introduce institutional improvements, improve maintenance operations
and strengthen the road user taxation system. In agriculture, Bank involve-
ment has met in some cases with success, in other with difficulties. Funds
for the Cooperative Farms project, and the First Agricultural Credit project
have been fully disbursed. Disbursements on the credit for the Fisheries
project have been slow because of slower than expected demand for project
vessels attributable to construction and after sale services problems. The
Irrigation Rehabilitation project and the Sidi Salem project are being imple-
mented satisfactorily. The Bank has attempted, over the past three years, to
play a more active role in rural development in Tunisia. The proposed project
is a first step in this direction since about 60 percent of the population in
the project areas belong to the target group. Efforts are being pursued with
the Government to define rural development policies and to identify viable
projects in this difficult but high priority sub-sector.
19.       Lending in the next and subsequent fiscal years will emphasize
projects promoting agricultural and industrial production, such as an irriga-
tion project in Southern Tunisia, a second fisheries project and continued
assistance for agricultural credit. Bank assistance to industry will focus on
small-scale enterprises and will also include finance for the Miskar Project
for the development of Tunisia's offshore gas resources. Complementary to
this primary focus, the program would also finance selected priority urban and
social development projects. Projects under discussion with the authorities
include a second population project, a second sewerage project, an urban
development project, a third port project and a fifth water supply project.
20.       The Bank Group accounted for about 24 percent of total public com-
mitments to Tunisia during 1970-76. The Bank Group's shares in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1976 (including loans from private
sources) and in debt service during 1976 were 15 percent and 14 percent
respectively. The Bank Group's share in Tunisia's disbursed external debt
by 1981 is expected to remain unchanged from about 15 percent in 1976, and
its share in debt service would amount to about 10 percent.
21.       IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development) and in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which will produce alumin-
ium fluoride from local fluorspar for export. IFC's most recent investment,
in May 1975, was in the Sousse-Nord integrated tourism development project.
IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $16.5 million. IFC's Board has ap-
proved the sale of IFC shares in NPK Engrais to the Tunisian Government.



- 8 -
22.       Since 1962 the Bank has chaired a Consultative Group for Tunisia
bringing together the principal donor countries and institutions concerned
with the country's development. The most recent meeting of the Group, held
in Paris in June 1975, welcomed new participants which included Saudi Arabia,
Japan, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development and the Commission
of the European Communities. Last year, a development conference was organized
by the government in Tunis in early July, in lieu of a meeting of the Consul-
tative Group.
PART III - THE TRANSPORTATION AND AGRICULTURAL SECTORS
General
23.       Road transport is crucial for the development of agriculture, be-
cause it is the dominant carrier of outputs and inputs as well as other
supplies and services for the rural population. Whereas road transport is
generally satisfactory on the principal highways it has serious deficiencies
in rural areas, mainly because the rural roads are in poor condition. Rural
roads are defined as roads outside urban areas carrying predominantly agricul-
tural traffic, irrespective of their administrative classification.
24.       Rural road improvements by themselves would have limited impact on
agricultural output and would usually generate insufficient benefits to jus-
tify the road investments. The principal reason is that farmers, especially
the low income farmers need credit and other support services to raise agri-
cultural production. The proposed project, therefore, provides for an
integrated development package of rural road improvements and complementary
agricultural investments, and other support measures.
TRANSPORTATION
25.       The Transport Sector.  A detailed description of the transportation
sector is contained in Bank Reports No. 930-TUN of December 1975 and No.
1539-TUN of May 1977. Since modes of transportation other than road transport
have little direct impact on rural road development, no reference to them is
made in this sector analysis.
26.       Public road transport of passengers and freight is largely handled
by state enterprises, because private operators are restricted to taxis and
light trucks. Mainly due to lack of experience, some of the state enterprises
suffered losses, which endangered the renewal of their fleets. However, as a
result of the investments authorized by the Government in recent years and
those provided for under the Fifth Plan, the vehicle fleet should be suffi-
cient to meet current and forecast transport requirements. In addition, the
Government is making efforts to improve the management of state enterprises.



-9-
, 1.      The ?rinrcipai highways are in reasonable condition, partly as a
result of improvements introduced under the First and Second Highway Projects.
28.       The rural network :Ls estimated to include approximately 18,000 km of
unpaved roads, of which aboul: 50 percent are unclassified. Since most rural
roads were originally built ito low design standards, and have not been main-
tained during the past two decades, they are now practically impassable during
the rainy season. Many areas are virtually isolated for several months each
year. As a result, farmers are unable to obtain essential inputs and to sell
their products at the best time and with reasonable transport costs. Also,
the full benefits of existing extension and other support services cannot be
realized, because experts cannot reach farmers without undue difficulties.
Credit institutions are often reluctant to grant credit if they foresee diffi-
culties in the transport of inputs and outputs. In sum, many of the areas
served by rural roads have not been able to realize their full development
potential.
29.       Road Administration.  The Highway Department (DPC) is responsible
for the construction and maintenance of the main and rural road networks. It
has almost its full complement of engineering assistants and technicians, but
its staff of 46 engineers is below strength. Recruitment is difficult as
civil service conditions are not attractive. Consultants, including 4 compe-
tent Tunisian firms, provide highway design services to DPC.
30.       Supervision of road works, including those in the Second Highway
Project, is carried out by DPC. Supervision of road improvement works in the
proposed project would normally be delegated to field divisions. However,
in view of the recent establishment of some of the field divisions, some
assistance will be given from headquarters divisions in the form of resident
engineers and laboratory technicians so as to ensure competent administration
and supervision of the road improvement works. During negotiations of the
proposed project the Government has agreed to make available, on site, suffi-
cient qualified personnel and other resources necessary to ensure satisfactory
construction supervison (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a)).
31.       Policy and Plannirng.  The Government exercises considerable control
over road transport and the road network, especially through the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MTC) and the Ministry of Public Works (MPW).
The main constraints in road transport identified under the Second Highway
Project (Loan 1188-TUN of November 1976) are: (i) the absence of an effective
road transport policy and planning machinery; (ii) an excessive degree of
regulation; and (iii) distortions in passenger tariffs. These issues are
being addressed under that project. In particular the Government has started
to update the 1968 Transport Plan, with the assistance of consultants financed
under the above project, and has recently abolished the regulation restricting
owners of light trucks to the transport of only their own goods. Furthermore,
the authorities are considering lifting the zonal restrictions on transport
by trucks of state enterprises and the distance restrictions on the use of
farmers' trailers.



- 10 -
32.       Transport tariffs are set by Government to reflect the condition
of specific roads. Therefore, the reduction in transport costs resulting
from road improvements, including the proposed improvements on the rural
roads, can be expected to be passed on to farmers, other producers, consumers
and passengers.
33.       The detailed planning, administration, construction and maintenance
of the road network is the responsibility of the MPW's Highway Department
(Direction des Ponts et Chaussees, DPC). Until 1974, the Ministry of Agri-
culture was responsible for the unclassified roads. The MTC is responsible
for the planning and overall administration of investments in state transport
enterprises. Both MTC and MPW suffer from a shortage of qualified and expe-
rienced staff. To help fill this gap, they have contracted the services of
consultants, with Bank financing under the Second Highway Project, to update
the 1968 Transport Plan.
34.       The Fifth Plan (1977-81) envisages investments in the road network
of D 126 million, in current prices ($289.8 million), which is adequate for
the main highway network, and for the first time, includes a reasonable
allocation for improving rural roads.
AGRICULTURE
35.       The Agricultural Sector.  Agriculture plays an important role in
the economy. In 1976, it employed 46 percent of the labor force, contributed
21 percent to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and about 13 percent to the total
value of exports. During 1973-76, the annual growth rate in agriculture was
5.5 percent, partly due to good weather, favorable prices for olive oil and
renewed Government support of the private sector. About one-third of Tunisia s
total land area, or about 5.3 million hectares, are classified as cultivable;
the remainder is range land suitable for extensive sheep grazing, low-yielding
forest and desert. The cropped area covers about 3.1 million ha, of which 1.3
million ha are under perennial crops, and 110.000 ha, or 3.5 percent, are
equipped for irrigation.
36.       At present, besides agro-ecological factors and the poor condition
of the rural roads, the main constraints on agricultural development are:
(i) limited investments made in water and soil conservation; (ii) inefficien-
cies in extension services benefitting low income farmers; and (iii) limited
access to credit for low income farmers.
37.       Agricultural Institutions.  The Ministry of Agriculture has overall
responsibility for agricultural planning and development. Its Planning
Department (Direction du Plan, de l'Analyse Economique et des Projets, DPAEP)
prepared the agricultural component of the proposed project, with the assis-
tance of consultants (para. 42). Several semi-autonomous public agencies
assume responsibility for management and maintenance of irrigation infra-
structure, extension services, production and marketing services for the main
agricultural products, and equipment rental and maintenance services. There
is a lack of coordination among these agencies, and duplication of effort



- 11 -
between the departments of the Ministry of Agriculture on the one hand, and
these agencies on the othe!r hand.
38.       Several institutions are also involved in extension of shbrt-term
credit. Credit in kind is extended by the semi-public autonomous agencies to
farmers for seeds, fertilizers and herbicides.  Short-term credit in cash is
provided by the Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT) to commercial farmers and
to cooperatives, under an agreement with Government which gives BNT access to
rediscounting facilities with the Central Bank. The establishment in 1974 of
Mutual Guarantee Associations (Societes de Caution Mutuelle, SCM) resulted in
improving low-income farmers' access to short-term credit, by providing joint
SCM liability for loans to individual farmers. Local credit cooperatives
(Caisses Locales de Credit Mutuel, CLCMs) also provide short-term credit in
cash to farmers; but they have rendered limited assistance to farmers because
of poor management and continuing losses. Despite the creation of SCM's,
existing short-term credit institutions have been ineffective in delivering
credit to low income farmers. In 1977, only about 5 percent of low-income
farmers had access to short-term credit.
39.       The Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT) is the main supplier of
medium- and long-term credit. The Government's Special Fund for Agricultural
Development (FOSDA) provides most of investment credit available to BNT for
low income farmers. The lJnited States Agency for International Development
(USAID), the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) and the World
Food Program (WFP) also provide BNT with medium- and long-term resources.
These resources are placed in special funds, each with different lending rules
and procedures. The main problems of credit organization in Tunisia (namely
lack of eligibility criteria for concessionary investment credit, low interest
rates, Government subsidiies and risk coverage by the Government and the agri-
cultural lending institutions) were addressed in the context of the Bank-
financed Second Agricultural Credit project (Loan 1340-TUN). The terms and
conditions agreed for that project will be applied to the medium- and long-
term credit component of the proposed project (para. 49).
40.       Policy Planning.  Government strategy for the agricultural sector
during the Fifth Plan emphasizes intensification of production through
increased use of inputs, modernizing technology and irrigation. Further
improvements in agricultural policies and support services are envisaged in
the Plan to ensure an annual growth rate of 4.2 percent in output so as to
acnieve equilibrium in the trade balance of agricultural products. Total
investment is projected at D 500 million (or $1.15 billion equivalent) in
current prices, or an average annual increase of 43 percent, in real terms,
over the average of the previous Plan (1973-76). Major emphasis would be
placed on water development projects (44 percent of total investments), but
also on cereal, tree crop and livestock production. In addition to these
investments, the Government has also allocated D 100 million ($230 million
equivalent) to a special rural development fund, primarily to be used at the
discretion of provincial administrators to finance small infrastructure
(including some rural roads) projects in rural areas. Total agricultural
investment during the Plan period is expected to generate about 30,000
permanent jobs in agriculture, or 12 percent of planned employment creation.



- 12 -
41.       The main thrust of the Bank's program in agriculture is to help
increase output through irrigation and credit projects, in support of the
Government's strategy for the sector. Further institutional improvements in
water resource development policies, price policies and credit organization
would be pursued in the context of such projects. Emphasis would also be
placed on defining a strategy and suitable policies for rural development
projects and on improving income distribution through the appropriate location
of Bank-financed agricultural and other projects. It is expected that the
proposed project would support this strategy by improving low income farmers'
access to credit and extension services and by improving the network of rural
roads in areas of Tunisia that have received little assistance.
IV. THE PROJECT
Background
42.       Following the transfer of responsibility of the rural road network
from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Public Works (para. 33),
the Government asked the Bank in 1975 for assistance in developing a pilot
scheme, as a first step for launching a comprehensive and longer-term program
for the development and maintenance of rural roads. Thirty roads were ini-
tially selected for preliminary evaluation and subsequent detailed prepara-
tion. The roads are located in diverse areas in order to cover a range of
traffic needs as well as different terrain, agro-ecological conditions, and
production practices. Subsequently, at the request of the Government, which
was concerned with reducing regional disparities, an additional thirty roads
in Central Tunisia (provinces of Kasserine and Sidi Bouzid) were selected for
analysis. The project was prepared by the Ministries of Public Works and
Agriculture with the assistance of a joint-venture of local and French consul-
tants. The methodology of project preparation follows a new approach for
rural roads projects, involving a detailed analysis of each road and its zone
of influence, including traffic needs, and agricultural potential. It also
includes the preparation of an integrated development package for each road
and its zone of influence, as well as the extension manuals specifying input
and production targets, recommended actions to be taken and procedures for
monitoring progress in implementation. Preparation of these development
packages make it possible, from the outset, to identify key crops and to focus
the attention of the extension and other support services on these crops.
43.       The appraisal of the project combined the conventional highways
appraisal methodology with that of a highways sector approach. It consisted
of the detailed analyses and evaluations of 19 roads (about 400 km) and comple-
mentary agricultural investments located in the provinces of Le Kef, Siliana
and Kairouan, out of which 18 were considered economically justified and are
included in the proposed project. This was followed by the identification of
a further 40 roads (about 600 km) and related agricultural investments, which
appeared prima facie economically justified and would be subjected to similar
analyses and evaluations. Furthermore, the Government's capability to under-
take these analyses and evaluations and to implement the proposed investments



- 13 -
was assessed and found satisfactory. The latter 40 roads are located in the
provinces of Nabeul, Gabes, Kasserine, Sidi Bouzid, and Gafsa. To ensure full
utilization of the proceeds of the proposed loan, in case some of these roads
are not economically justifiable, rural roads in other areas of Tunisia, from
among the 2,500 km of roads for which project preparation based on the same
methodology and criteria would start in late 1978 under the proposed project
(para. 52), may be considered for financing. The additional 2,500 km roads
will be studied on a province by province basis in the following order of
priority: Jendouba, Beja, Mahdia, Monastir, Sousse and Zaghouan.
44.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission in August
1975 and was appraised in November 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington
in May 1978. The Tunisian delegation was headed by Mr. A. Zarrouk from the
Ministry of Planning and included Messrs. A. Soula, R. Chamari, Ben Romdhane,
Ben Zoubir and A. Tekaya. A report entitled "Tunisia Staff Appraisal Report
of a Rural Roads Project" (No. 1190a-TUN), dated June 2, 1978 is being circu-
lated separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the Loan
and the Project are mentioned in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex
III. A map showing the location of the roads to be improved under the project
is also attached.
Project Objectives
45.       The proposed projetct would establish a pilot scheme to improve
rural roads, raise agricultural production and improve the standard of living
of the rural population through complementary agricultural investments in the
zones of influence of each road. Better rural roads would also facilitate the
provision of social and other administrative services, while the increase in
economic activity would create additional employment opportunities. Once
established, the pilot scheme would provide a consistent methodology for the
development of the entire rural road network.
Project Description
46.       The project would consist of:
(i) civil works to improve about 60 rural road sections totalling
about 1,000 km;
(ii) purchase of road maintenance equipment, spare parts and workshop
machine tools;
(iii) purchase of equipment and training for agricultural extension
services;
(iv) provision of agricultural credit;
(v) purchase of agricultural equipment and construction of
collection and equipment rental facilities and of workshops;
and



- 14 -
(vi) technical assistance for the Ministries of Public Works
and Agriculture.
47.       Improvements and Maintenance of Rural Roads.  Improvements would
consist of rehabilitation, upgrading or new construction, all with particular
attention to drainage, and would conform to satisfactory design standards.
Rehabilitation would generally involve road sections previously engineered
but which are in poor condition due to lack of maintenance. Upgrading would
generally improve the pavement structure and longitudinal profile on the
existing alignment. The organizational structure necessary for rural road
maintenance tasks has been established under the First Highway Project. These
tasks would be handled by the subdivisions of the Ministry of Public Works.
However, most subdivisions have insufficient road maintenance equipment. The
proposed project therefore includes the purchase of road maintenance equipment
which would be distributed to the subdivisions in charge of maintaining the
project roads. Because of practical organization and job scheduling, the
equipment would not be earmarked solely for maintaining the project roads; in
some cases, it would be used on other roads and in other cases, project roads
would be maintained with other equipment. It has been agreed with the Govern-
ment during negotiations that all rural roads improved to an appropriate
service level will be adequately maintained in accordance with sound engineer-
ing and financial practices, and that the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for this will be promptly provided as needed (Draft
Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
48.       Agricultural Extension Services.  The effectiveness of agricultural
extension services in the zones of influence of the rural roads would be
improved through a gradual increase in the number of agents in the field.
Extension agents now operating separately on behalf of various field organi-
zations would be brought together into small units with one agent responsible
for a given area, thereby ensuring consistency in advice to farmers. The
mobility and expertise of extension agents would be improved with equipment,
and with technical assistance for training them in the introduction of new
cropping patterns to be made available under the project (para. 51). The
extension manuals prepared or being prepared for each province in which rural
roads of the proposed project are located, should provide a more effective
extension system than at present. The Government has agreed to provide,
promptly as needed, the resources required to strengthen the extension ser-
vices in the zones of influence of the proposed project roads (Draft Loan
Agreement, Sections 3.01(a) and 3.05).
49.       Agricultural Credit.  Long- and medium-term credit to farmers would
be required to purchase agricultural machinery, dairy cows, and sheds for
livestock; to plant cactus and medicago (a fodder crop); and to construct
wells. Short-term credit would be needed, particularly by low-income farmers,
to cover the recurrent costs of such inputs as fertilizers, pesticides and
feed concentrates. The foreign costs of the 1979-80 investment credit needs
(about $3.3 million equivalent) are expected to be financed under categories
A and B of the Second Agricultural Credit project (Loan No. 1340-TUN, Closing
Date: December 31, 1980), subject to availability of funds (Draft Loan Agree-
ment, Recital (C)). The Government would cover any balance of the foreign



- 15 -
costs during 1979-80 as well as all foreign costs beyond 1980. All short-term
credit would be provided by Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT), partly from
resources made available by Government (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(iv)).
Thus, agricultural credit to farmers would not be financed under the proposed
loan.
50.       Agricultural Facilities and Equipment.  Whereas the existing capac-
ity of agro-industries such as canning factories is expected to be sufficient
for the increased production resulting from the proposed project, the number
and capacity of collection facilities and of workshops for the rental and
maintenance of agricultural equipment are inadequate in some areas. For
instance, project preparatiLon in the province of Le Kef indicates that
increased production of milk and wheat would require the construction of
a refrigerated milk collection center with a capacity of 9,000 liters along
one of the roads and a simple grain collection facility with a capacity of
500 metric tons along another. The project therefore would provide $9.1 mil-
lion for the establishment of necessary agricultural facilities and equipment
in the project areas.
51.       Technical Assistance.  About 148 man-months of consulting services
would be provided under the project for technical assistance, as follows:
(a) 130 man-months over a period of about two years to assist the Ministries
of Public Works and Agricu:Lture in the preparation of an additional 2,500 km
of rural roads (para. 43); and (b) 18 man-months to assist the Ministry of
Agriculture in the training of extension agents in the introduction of new
cropping patterns, including 6 man-months for organizing and conducting
seminars (para. 48). The itechnical assistance would also include comple-
mentary short-term traineeships abroad. During negotiations the terms of
reference of these consulting services were discussed and confirmed with the
Government.
Methodology of Sub-project Review
52.       The criteria for the evaluation and approval of proposed sub-
projects, covering the remaining 40 rural road sections (600 km) and comple-
mentary agricultural investments, would be the same as those applied to the
19 road sections (400 km) already studied. The first step would be the
submission by the Government to the Bank of a report showing that, based on
an initial screening of the roads and their related agricultural investments,
their further preparation and economic and financial analyses should be
pursued. The next step woluld be the submission of (i) a report covering
preliminary engineering anid cost estimates of construction and maintenance;
(ii) a report covering present and future traffic in the zone of influence of
each rural road and the related agricultural development package; (iii) an
extension manual applicable to each zone of influence; and (iv) computer input
and output data for each road.
53.       The criteria for Bank-approval of subprojects are as follows:
(i) the quality of the preparation and analysis of subprojects
should be acceptable to the Bank (equivalent to that of the
subprojects for the 19 road sections (400 km) already
appraised);



- 16 -
(ii) the economic return of the investment package is at least
equal to the opportunity cost of capital in Tunisia, which
is at present estimated at 10 percent;
(iii) the financial rates of return based on representative farm
models are sufficiently high to provide incentives to
farmers to take advantage of the additional credit facili-
ties for agricultural investments; and
(iv) the implementation of an investment package will not be
started before its optimal year.
These criteria will be reviewed from time to time in the light of experience
gained. During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that the above procedures would be followed (Draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.06).
54.       TIhe review of 40 further subprojects would constitute a part of
- ,-- ~     In view of the capability of the Government in project
pie.paratloti, which has been established during the appraisal of the 19 roads
(400 km), a detailed review of all sub-project roads by the Bank is not
considered necessary. A detailed review would only be made of those sub-
Drojects with a Bank participation of at least $350,000 equivalent, provided
o    -- i~' ~- i 4    '-.  >--kase related t'  each agro-ecological zone in each
itTn71,ict- it exarnL -  Subprojects witr, Bank participation of below $350,006
would be reviewed in less detail without field inspection.
Costs Estimates and FinancinR Plan
55.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $93.6 mil-
lion, including a foreign cost of $40.9 million, and duties and taxes of $12.7
miiltuil.  The estimated costs of the project components are $50.5 million for
-ne .oad improvement works, $5.4 million for road maintenance equipment, $9.1
miliion for agricultural facilities and equipment, $17.2 million for invest-
ment credit, $7.2 million for short-term credit, $2.8 million for equipment
and training for extension services, $1.4 million for technical assistance to
Ministries of Public Works and Agriculture. These costs, which are expressed
in early 1978 prices, include a total of $22.6 million for physical contingen-
cies (10 percent), and price escalation contingencies at the following rates:
8 percent, 7.5 percent and 7 percent for 1978, 1979 and 1980-83, respectively
for civil works and consulting services, and 7 percent, 6.5 percent and 6
percent for the same periods for agricultural equipment. The costs are
derived from detailed quantities and rates for the 18 road sections so far
appraised and accepted for inclusion in the projects (para. 43) and, for the
remainder, from estimates based on considerations of traffic, agro-ecological
conditions, present and potential production, population density and certain
assumptions about development, all based on preliminary review and reconnais-
sance of most of the roads and areas involved. Final quantities and costs
would depend on the detailed preparation and analysis of each subproject.
Depending on these final costs, the total length of rural roads sections to
be improved may, therefore, differ from the estimated 1,000 km. The foreign
exchange costs for civil works are based on the assumption that one-third of



- 17 -
the contracts will be awarded to Tunisian firms and two-thirds to foreign
firms. The cost of technical assistance (para. 51) is based on consultants'
rates pertaining in Tunisia in early 1978 ($7,700 per man-month, including
overheads, fees and taxes). Detailed cost estimates and a financing plan are
provided in the Loan and Project Summary.
56.       The proposed Bank loan would finance the entire foreign exchange
costs, except those for credit to farmers. During 1979-80, the foreign
exchange cost of investment credit estimated at $3.3 million, is expected
to be covered from the Second Agricultural Credit Project (para. 49).
During 1981-82, it would be provided by the Government in an amount equiv-
alent to $3.6 million. All short-term credit needs would be met from BNT's
own resources. The Government would ensure availability of the foreign and
local funds necessary for all credit needs in the zones of influence of the
project roads. Thus Bank financing under the proposed project would be $32
million. During negotiations, this arrangement was discussed and confirmed
with both BNT and the Government.
On-Lending Arrangements
57.       Part of the loan proceeds would be made available to BNT for on-
lending to semi-autonomous agencies and service cooperatives for constructing
and equipping agricultural facilities. The Government would carry the foreign
exchange risk and would also pay to BNT (para. 62) a commission of 3 percent
per annum of the aggregate principal amount outstanding, to cover project-
related administrative expenditures and a reserve against defaults. These
would be reflected in an agreement between the Government and BNT, the
signature of which would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan (Draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.02 and 6.02(a)).
Implementation
58.       Civil works and complementary agricultural investments are expected
to be implemented over a period of about 5 years, starting early in 1979.
Technical assistance to the Ministries of Public Works and Agriculture would
run from early 1979 through mid-1980. The organization proposed for project
implementation is based ulpon the organization which has satisfactorily under-
taken project preparation. To ensure adequate impetus for the project and to
provide guidance to the Coordination Committee which had been established
during project preparation but without any legal status, the overall respon-
sibility for the project will be vested in the Ministry of Public Works (MPW)
since it is the major executing agency for the project. The Government has
agreed to assign specific overall responsibility for project implementation
to the MPW which will, in turn, administer the project through the Coordina-
tion Committee to ensure that all of the project elements are carried out in
a timely and coordinated manner (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01). The
membership of that Coordination Committee during the project implementation
stage would include two representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture (MA),
one from its Planning Department (DPAEP) and one from its Agricultural Pro-
duction Department (Direction de la Production Agricole, DPA) since these



- 18 -
departments cover the planning and operational functions respectively, a
representative of the MPW, from the Highway Department (DPC) which covers
planning, construction and maintenance functions and a representative of BNT.
In view of the successful experience with the Coordination Committee and with
the semi-autonomous agencies during project preparation, it is considered that
the proposed project implementation organization would be effective. However,
it is essential to constitute it formally. The formal establishment of the
Coordination Committee in accordance with the Borrowers regulations, determin-
ing its powers and terms of reference is a condition of loan effectiveness.
59.       Responsibility for the execution of the various project investments
and actions would remain with the existing agencies. The Coordination Com-
mittee would function through the MA and MPW members, who have line authority
over their regional offices. In the case of other agencies, the Coordination
Committee would, under its terms of reference, make arrangements acceptable to
the Bank with such agencies specifying their responsibilities with respect to
project implementation (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03). The Coordination
Committee would meet at least once a quarter or more often if necessary. It
would review quarterly progress reports and would determine appropriate action
to be taken to resolve any problems. It would also review future work programs
and budgets for each of the participating organizations to ensure that all
necessary activities are coordinated (Draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 6).
60.       At the central government level, the DPC would be responsible for:
(i) implementing the rural road construction works; (ii) procurement of rural
road maintenance equipment; and (iii) technical assistance for the preparation
of the 2,500 km of rural roads. The Department of Agricultural Production
of the Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for implementing: (i)
improvements of extension services including training of agents; (ii) construc-
tion works related to collection and equipment facilities; (iii) agricultural
equipment procurements; and (iv) technical assistance for the preparation of
complementary agricultural investments for the aforementioned 2,500 km of rural
roads.
61.       Since the overall project covers a number of related activities, the
timing and scope of which will require adjustment as experience is gained, a
certain degree of flexibility in project execution will need to be maintained.
Each participating agency would therefore review jointly with the Coordination
Committee an annual plan detailing the activities and expenditures under the
project for the following year. During negotiations assurances were obtained
from the Government that those annual plans will be submitted to the Bank for
review and comment by September 30 of each year, starting in 1979   (Draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.09(c)(ii)).
62.       The Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT) would make both the investment
and short-term credit available to farmers as well as medium and long-term
credit to semi-autonomous agencies and service cooperatives for constructing
and equipping agricultural facilities. The MA's regional field divisions
(CRDA's) would assist BNT in appraising loan applications. For investment
credit, lending policies and procedures, terms and conditions of project



- 19 -
sub-loans, and the sharing of the default risk would be the same as under the
Second Agricultural Credit Project; for short-term credit they would be the
same as those in use for short-term credit by BNT. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations (Draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5). Assur-
ances were also obtained from the Government during negotiations that it would
cause BNT to provide funds, facilities, services and other resources for the
strengthening of its branches in the zones of influence of rural roads (Draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (vii)).
Audit of Accounts
63.       Government agencies maintain budgets and accounts which are under
constant supervision by El financial controller appointed to each agency by the
Ministry of Finance. The present system is satisfactory. Under the Second
Agricultural Credit Project, BNT subjects its accounts to an audit by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank. It has been agreed with the Govern-
ment that each executing agency would maintain separate accounts for its part
of project work and that annual financial statements would be forwarded to the
Bank, in a form acceptable to the Bank, within four months of the end of each
fiscal year (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
Land Acquisition for Right-of-Way
64.       During loan negotiations the Government has agreed to make available
all right-of-way as needed for the timely implementation of the proposed
project (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.10). Since the roads are located in
rural areas, no delays inL land acquisition are expected.
Procurement
65.       For the road construction works, unit price contracts would be
awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement. Works have been broken down into suitable lots to
encourage participation in bidding from both local and foreign firms, and con-
tracts would be awarded per lot or for a combination of lots with a total
value of at least 2,500,000 Dinars (equivalent to about $5,750,000). Main-
tenance equipment contracts would be awarded by the MPW after international
bidding, also in accordance with these guidelines. The range of goods to be
purchased by the MA or its associated semi-autonomous public agencies is
varied and not suitable for bulk procurement, and individual contracts would
be far too small to warrant full international advertisement. However,
foreign suppliers of farm machinery and equipment are well represented in
Tunisia; necessary service facilities are available; competition is keen, and
prices are competitive. Machinery and equipment to be purchased by the MA or
its associated agencies would be procured through local channels on the basis
of the best offer out of no less than three. The construction of collection
facilities and simple workshops would be carried out after local competitive
bidding had been announced in the local press, which allows foreign firms to
participate; copies of each contract would be sent to the Bank. The technical
assistance parts of the project would be provided by consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).



- 20 -
Disbursements
66.       The proposed Bank loan of $32 million would be disbursed over about
six years beginning in early 1979 as follows:
(i) 40 percent of expenditures for rural road works;
(ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 80 percent of total
expenditures in local currency, for rural road maintenance
equipment;
(iii) 55 percent of expenditures for equipment for extension
services;
(iv) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 75 percent of
amounts disbursed by BNT for construction of simple
agricultural facilities and the purchase of agricultural
equipment; and
(v) 75 percent of expenditures for consulting services and
training.
Monitoring and Evaluation
67.       The Highway Department (DPC), the Agricultural Production Depart-
ment (DPA) and the Planning Department (DPAEP) of the Ministry of Agriculture
would prepare quarterly progress reports on the rural road improvements,
purchases of maintenance equipment, the strengthening of the extension ser-
vices, the provision of credit, the construction of collection and equipment
facilities and the purchase of agricultural equipment. These reports would
be consolidated into a single report by the Coordination Committee. During
negotiations, the Government has agreed to prepare quarterly progress reports
on the above matters and to send them to the Bank regularly (the first one
within six months of Loan effectiveness date), as well as a project completion
report within six months of the Loan closing date (Draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.09(c)(i) and (d)).
Environmental Impact
68.       The project would improve the rural environment by providing infra-
structure in the form of rural roads, storage facilities and workshops and
better access to markets and administrative centers. Since the roads are
located in rural terrain and most of the improvements would take place on
existing alignments, there would be little, if any, need to displace dwellings
and their inhabitants.
Benefits and Risks
69.       The proposed project would support the high priority the Government
attaches to regional and rural development and self-sufficiency in major food
products by 1981. It has been designed as a pilot project for developing a
country-wide rural roads program. Thus, one of its main benefits would be



- 21 -
tnat the Government would have a consistent methodology for and approach to
such a program. Successful project implementation would raise farm incomes,
including those of many farmers now with annual incomes below the Bank's
estimated absolute poverty level of US$191 per capita, and would also generate
important demonstration benefits to other farmers. In addition. it would
benefit families in the project areas through increased mobility on the part
of children (better school aLttendance), school inspectors, social workers and
health officials. It is estimated that about 60% of the population in the
project areas belong to the rural poverty target group.
70.       Under the highway sector lending approach economic rates of return
of the additional subprojects (about 40) would be calculated after loan
approval, according to a methodology and criteria acceptable to the Bank
(paras. 52-53). The methodology and criteria have been developed during the
preparation of the proposed project and have already been applied to appraise
19 road sections (about 400 km) and their complementary agricultural invest-
ments (see para. 43). The economic rates of return of 18 of the 19 investment
packages appraised range between 11 percent and 27 percent and would be con-
sidered acceptable. Financial rates of return, based on six typical farm
budgets of households deriving their incomes entirely from livestock and/or
crop production, range from 9 percent to 53 percent and would also be accept-
able.
71.       The project's success will depend on the timely implementation
of a variety of investments and activities by various agencies. There is
a risk, therefore, that not all the potential project benefits might be
achieved because of insufficient coordination and agency participation.
This risk should, however, be lessened by the existence of the Coordination
Committee whose membership comprises high-level officials of the principal
participating agencies. Another type of risk lies in the fact that the
experience of some participating agencies carrying out programs directed
more intensively at low-income farmers is relatively recent. However, the
detailed provisions made for project implementation and monitoring should help
diminish this risk. Overall, the potential of the proposed project, especially
its benefits for low-income people, make the project risks well worth taking.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
73.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness include:
(i) the agreement with BNT has been executed and duly author-
ized (Section 6.01(a) of the Draft Loan Agreement); and
(ii) the Coordination Committee has been formally established
(Section 6.131(b) of the Draft Loan Agreement).



- 22 -
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 2, 1978
Washington, D.C.



Anmex I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TUNISIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  -------------------------------------------------
TUNISIA                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       164.2                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.       76.1                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           JORDAN          IRAQ           GREECE***
______________________________        ------------    ------------   ------------
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     230.0*    370.0*    840.0* /a             350.0*      640.0*    1360.04
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)             4.1        5.0        5.7 /a              2.3         9.4         8.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        25.0       30.0       35*0 in             24.0        22.0        67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         54.0       67.0       75.0               165.0        92.0        96.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          46.6       44.7       40.0                47.5        49.1        18.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           21.5       16.9       13.8                17.8        17.9         8.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           ..      125.0       62.6 lb             36.3 /abc 104.0         29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        46.1       51.6       54.1                50.7        50.2        70.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.1        3.4        3.4                 3.5         3.5         1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  1 .8*      2.3**      2.3**               3.1         3.2         O.
URBAN                                   ..        3.0/a      4.7                    .        6.0         1.5
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           35.6/fa   40.1/b    47.0                    .-        58.0        62.6
AGE STRUCTJRE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        42.4       46.3       42.1                47.0 /a    48.0         24.9
15 TO 64 YEARS                        52.6       50.2       53.8                49.5 /      48.0        64.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                      5.0        3.5        4.1                 3.5 E       4.0        11.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9         1.0       0.9                 1.0 /a      1.1         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3/_       1.B8      1.4                 2.4 7-ad   1.8 /a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..      112.2      281.5
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..       12.0         ..                  ..          .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          1400.0/a  1300.0/b  1880.0                 350.0 /a  2700.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          69.07a    57.07E    37.4                  33.0        S S2.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           10.07a    12.07W    14.0                  14.0 70      6.0
INCOME OISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..        ..         ..                  ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..        ..         ..                  ..
LOWEST  20X OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
._____________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..      53.0 /d       ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS             ..       O.STd        ..                 *           *
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             10000.0 /C 5950.0    5560.0 /eaf           2680.0      3270.0       620.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              ..     730.0 /e  670.0 7mg           1050.0      S490.0      1140.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            360.0 /d  410.0 7    410.0                960.0       520.0       160.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          86.0       94.0Oj     94.0 /i            94.0        93.0        116.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               54.0       63.0JR    67.0 71             60.0        62.0        99.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          13.0       14.0            E ..          18.0/e      17.01b      52.o/a
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                ..       1.5 /bi   ..                   5.0/b
EDUCATION
ADjUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        67.0      100.0       95.0               73.0/a      67.0       106.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      13.0       23.0       18.0               33.07ia     24.0        66.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              13.0       13.0       13.0               12.0        12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      24.0       12.0/h    28.0                 3.0/a  f    3.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..         .        55.0                  *-        26.0       82.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..        2.7/b
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                                  60.0/b
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..       24.0/b       ..                  ..         .
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         ..         ..                  ..          .
CON SUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          41.0       77.0       74.0              160.0       180.0       111.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           11.0       13.0       18.0                 7.0         7.0       26.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            84.0      155.0     233.0                72.0       291.0      1072.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.3        0.1        0.1                 0.3         0.3        1.6
--------------------------------    ----------------------------------------------------------_____-_____________
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Annex I
Page 2 Qf 4 pages
Unless otherwise noted, doto for 1960 refer to sty year between 1959 enid 196, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, aod for Moet Recent 0atimete b.twe.n
1973 and 1975.
* GNP per ..pit. date aro boe.d on the World lack Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
00 Du. to emigration populatian growth rote is lowser then the rate of nateal incrase.
0*Greec  boo boon selecteda  an objective co-otry, on the besis of the else of it. population, mediterr-neen geographical situation  and its
econ-y, which pro...nts  on  siilarity with Tonici.sa, with reapect to national resources, market si.e, agriculture and cervices activIties.
TUNISIA      1960     I   1956;    /b  Ratio of popolotion under 15 and 65 and over to total lebor force;    /c  1963;    /d  1962, including rura
1970    /   1956-66;    /b  19b66        1c  Ratio of population uider 15 and 65 and over to total labor f-oe;    /d  Covering 4.5 million
hectaree of private land, excluding 0.8 million hatteras in public ownership, and 2.1 million h.ctarta of collective land;
Ic  personnel in goverrtnmut services only;    If  Govermeent hospital eetablialeaent  only;    LI  1964-66;    /h  tExcluding
Technicol economy snd tec:hnical induatry;    Li  Registered only.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE        Ia  1976;    /b  1966-75;    Ic  Registered only;    /d  Ratio of population  -ider 15 and 65 and over, to total
labor farces;    /e  Includling dentists;    /f  197-2;    LI  Personnol in government services only;
/h  Gaorumonet hospital eastablielaants only;7    /i  1969-71 average.
ROE   1970          E-Rot tonk only;    /b  1366;    /c  Regitatend only;    Id  Ratio of population under  5 and 65 and over to total labor force;
/.  1964-66;    Lf  Including LWROA echools.
IRAQ         1970       Ra tito of populotion ondar 15 and 65 and over to tot.1 labor forc.;    /b  1964-66.
GREECE       1970    Ia1967.
R13, September 23, 1977
DUUThTIONS OP SOCUAL fINDIrATORS
Loand Ar-s (thou h2)                                                                         Populat!,on par tunaing Person - Population divided by meban of pratIcing
Total   Tota1 ourfono area comprising land are  ond inland eacers,                             ta,o  tfals grdadote morass, "traind' on  ca.rtifted" moras, and
Amrlc.,  Most recen.t eotioaota of ag.lcoltural ares usd tempor-ily on part-                   asailiary personal with training or e.p.rtenca.
neatly (or crops, pouturne, morket & bltchem gardaem  or to lie fallow.                    PonuloIta% per basital bed - Popunlation diwld.d by neb., of hospital hod.
_vaileble in public and ptiveat  gsnral ased opeciaIlsd hospital sod
GNP nor ..Pit. (US$). - CNP per -apita eotinats  et .torent marrkst prIces,                    rahebillttlon centers; oexcludes  unuring h~am  and establilshments foe
calnulated by san 'c'on-oroo, setbod me world Bank Aitl.o (1973-75 basis);                   esraodial and preventive cars.
1960; 1970 and 1975 dots.                                                                  PIr capita eunoly11 ofcalories (7. of reouimresnt) - Csompt.d gre anargy
equivalnt of net toe  sppie          liailble in ctanta  per capIta per day;
Population ond vital stetintic,.                                                               available supplies teprie. domestic prod-etias, 1.ports ltss anparts, and
Population (mid-year millIon)   A. of July first:  if nwt wvailable, ovorage                   changes in stock; net  aopplies "eclude animal fsed, seead., q-uatities uesd4
of two end-yeor e.ti.stea; lA60, 1970 and 1975 data.                                         in food processing and Ioeee  in dintribution; requirementeswers etimated
by PAO based on phyeiologics1 needs for normal activity and health tonsld-
P.p.I.tion donoity   peor anumre he - Old-year populati.on par square kilemote                 erieg enviranaeantal temperature, body mights, age and s-  diatrihutiono, of
(100 hocctr-n) of total arma,                                                                population, and allowing 101 for was to at household level.
Puo-Iotion danit,  t-  r ouar. he of seic, land - Comaputed aso above for                    Per capita supply o.f or;oftan fres pee de,) - Protein centanc of per ..Pica
agricultural land only,                                                                      nt supyn.fo   a   day  mt asupply of food in defined es above ; require-
mat&a for all coustries established by us" teoneic ge .aeb i...ns
Vital Statistics                                                                               provide for a ninioma  allowanes of 60 gres of total protein pee day, ead
Cru~de  it rt   a  tosn. vrs  - Annual live birtha par thousand of                             20 freat of apnial sod pulse protein, of wshinb 10 gross ohould he animal
mldy.yor populotioa; teo-yesr arithmostic overgage  e,odiog in 1960 snd 1970,                protein; these stooderd. or  loer them thee of 75 areas of total protein
an:d five-yea:r ..vargo ending in 1975 for mast recant estimtat.                              and 23 ar-s of animal protain as an evar-ge for the world, propoasd by FAO
Crude dath rte non tho.iasnd.  vavrasa - Annual desth, par thousand of  itd-yaar               in the Third World Pood gurvsy.
population; ten-year -ithoetic averages ending in 1960 &and 1970 and f ive-                Par Cavite orotein supnly OreI aimal and Pulse - Protein supply 6f food
year averag  ending Ia 1975 for nest rec.ant astheat.                                        derived 8 re animal  en   ule  in groa per day.
Infant mortality rots (/thou) -Annual deathe of imfasts uider one, year of age               Death rate f/thou) mases 1-4 - Annual d.ath. per thousand in age group 1-i
per thoanead live birtha.                                                                    years, to children In this age groop; suggested as an indictor of
"if' enutoc at: hbinth fes) -Average noumber of years of life ronaining at                     malnutrition.
birth; .u. l  fiey ar-vrag"e ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
CR.. se rnduti.. rote - A-erege nnbar of live daughters a weman will bear                    Adjste erollment ra tio-ni nsho   EnrollIment of all ages as per-
in her  orma  reproductive period if she epepri.anes  present age-specific                   categ. Of primary school-age _populaj:tion; includes children mgsd A-l1 y.are
fer tility re te; ou.-lly five-yer averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but adjusted far different lengthe of primary education ; for coutries with
for developing countries,                                                                    universal education, onrolloent may emceed 100% sinces mosea  pupila are below
P.puletion grwth rate (7) - 't.ta  - C'epotund annual growth rates of mid-year                 or above the officil school age.
pouaio   o   950-60, 1960-70 andC1970-75.                                          Ad=usts erollmet.cane   seconar.Y school - Cemputed as above; secondary
Po.u Ition orooth rote (7. - urbanoplaio  C mcputed lik. esmeth rats of totaleuainreur1a  eatfu   er  of approved primary instrutimn;
populatIon; different definitions of urban areas nay affect semparability of                 provides goanra1, vocational or teech.e training insttruoin. for pupils
data among coutriee.                                                                         of 12 to 17 peers of aga; correspondenc.e corses are generally encluded.
Urban ponul.tton fT% of t-to1) - Ratio of urb.. te tota.l population; difforsnt              Years of scooIne o.roidsd ifiret end ascend lovels) - Total Y.sra of
dofinitloma of urban amos may affect comparability of data eamag countries.                  eteln;at esodery level, vocationmal inetrtim may be partially or
t- trcue (perce..t). - Childre  (i-l4 yadro), vor~ing-aga (15-64 pears),                VoainlerlmnI            7  facnae      oainlisiuin   ald
an eired  (65 yer  an   vr  opretgeo i-year population,                                  technical, Indus trial or other pregrma  which operate independently ora
A&. d.p..dnc raIo  - R0t10 01 population under 15 sed 63 and ovr to thee.                      departments of secondary institutions .
of uao  II through  4.Adult Ilt-ray rate (7) - Lit-rts adults (able to read end write) as per-
tocunicdnnodonr rtio - Rtito of population under II and 65 and over to                    centage of total adult Population aged 15 years end nuor.
Ethe labor forco in age group of 15-64 years.
_aily0 . piantu  - a   Iotor  (I usuotive. thou) - Cumlative nmusher of acceptors            H10-0mg
of birth-control devices  _ndor muspic   of ntional fmily planning program                 Farmon oar com  (urban) - Av.raga cubhr of p-arson  per roe in acnupi.d
otnon inception.                                                      onnuan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ticial dwellings in urban .ra...  dwellinag  escIude non-permanent
fontl plaeino- coro C  of tarried woe)-Perceutagas of tarried wnma of                    structures and -occupied parts.
child-b-arig oge (15-44 y-ur) who umn birth-control d.uioas to all tarried                 OncueLed dwlig wtotpipad wate  01 -Ocupied cooventiansi dws1inge
cococ in eano uge troop.                                              in~~~~~~~~~~~1 urba  adralreswtotiide or outsid. piped wa ter facilities
aspretg    f  1aloccupiad dosaling..
ftployment                                                                                    Acurrass to elootrti   f. of ell doeallineol -Conventionalda1       ig  with
ct1lbrforce (th ....nd) - Ecomaica11Y active person, including satmed                    1eletricity in lIvIn   qatrospont oftotldeligmnura`n
forces and unpclyed but oncludng boamewivas, students, etc. ; definitions                    rural areas..
in  arious i-ustries ame not conparabe.                                                    Rural dasiinga conneted to  alactrinite  7.   Cnputed as  baho. for rural
Labor for.. in arcu Iure  C%) - Agrinultura1 labor fo-   (in farming, feesatry.                  wlig,ny
bunting and fishing  spe"otago of total labor forte..
U- lonloved 17. of Iobr force) -  neplyed are usually d.t med se parson  who                  Consumpetion
are shIn ond willint to tak  aJob, out of a Job cmagios  day, resined oue                  Radio receiver, (pr thou  ao     All types of reeivers for radio brodcasts
ofsjo -ad aenking work for a spenified ninimus, Period not smcsedimg oeto general publi  per thousad of population; emeludes  niosd  aeoe
urn; my nt b  coparable betwee.. otrs  due to diffsrent defieitiona                      In countries and in yesre wham  -agiot-tion at radi.o.ets was 1n affect;
of ucaplyd ond spu  e:f data, e.8. * toplaynmat office statiatics, .-PI                       data fsr racent years may not he ceperable sie- nest  -matrisa abolished
aorvoYo, couPu1eory u-plaoy-nt insuranc,.                                                     licening.
P"a:asnteLcar (oa  thou pop) - Passenge.r ear  noaprias .stor cars soating
moondistibutve -Per,tsatog   of private income (bath in ea.h and bind)                    leste   iht persona;  ..nludes onbulance., hears.es ad .1itary
rcidbyr   ceoc 5%,rinboot 207., peorsat 20%, and poorest 607. of hms-                          vhcls
holds.                                                               O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lectricity (kwh/yr met nap) - Annual tonsamption of ludusct.ol, nel
pbIc and Private alectricity in kilowatt hours per capita, ga...rs11y
)1.1' ribottron1 of. and own-rhip - Percentages of 1-ni msnd by wealthi..t lOt                 based on production data, without a11nance far Ibass in grids bar allo--
adP.cot 1    f Land owners.                                                                 img for imparts and exports of slectricity.
Newepri.t (bWY, "ar can   - Par c&Pita annual conasuption in kilogrec
Health and Nutrition                                                                            estimatd teen doeatto production plus ant imports sof newsprint.
Populition orphysinian - Populatin divided.by ntahriof practicing
phyotana q  aliid fee a neina  school at usit, rsty level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual                    Est.               Projected 1'                1965-        1970-       1976-
_1965       1970         1975         1976        1977        1978       1981        1970        1975         1981         1976
Diners Millions at Constant 1972 Prices                           Average Annual Growth Rate    Share of GDP
A.   LA[IIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product                                    656          824       1,286        1,444       1,527       1,655      2,084         4.7          9.3         7.6          100.0
Cres-s Iron  Terms of Trade                                -6           -2           53          39           36         36          60                      .           .             2.9
Gross Do-entic Income                                     650          822       1,339        1,483       1,563       1,691      2,144         4.8         10.3         7.6          102.9
Imports (G aod NFS)                                       179          221         384          409         433         467        573         4.3        11.7          7.0           27.5
Eupocts (G cod  0S) (Import cracity)                      105          183         333          339          369        396         528       11.7         12.7         9.3           22.5
Resource Gap                                               74           38           51          70           64         70          45                .           .                   3.6
Cons-mption                                               549          696       1,061        1,191       1,280       1,395      1,759         4.9          8.8         8.1           84.4
Inve.tm-ent                                               162          164         330          362         346         366        430         0.2        15.0          3.5           20.6
Domestic Savings.                                          88          126         278          292          283        296         385        7.4        17.1          5.7           18.5
Nhtionel S-vings                                           67          104         274          280          268        276         347        9.2         21.4         4.4           16.7
GDP at current prices (IS$ millicos)                    1,004        1,444       4,324        4,782       5,456       6,359      9,899         7.5         25.0        15.7
8.   SECTOR OUTPUT                                                          Share in GDP at Constant 1972 Prices in Percent                        Average Annual Growth Rate
Agriculture                                                22.1         20.4         21.0        21.5         19.4       19.2        17.7       -         10.3          3.5
Industry                                                   22.8         24.9        25.4         25.2         26.6       27.4        30.2      6.3        10.1         11.6
Services                                                   55.L         54.7         53.6        53.3         54.0       53.4        52.1      5.8         12.3         7.0
C.   MERCHANDISE TRADE                                                                    lliors of US Dollars                                     Average Annual Growth Rate
imports
Olive Oil                                                  26           17           78          82           58         60          70       -9.0        36.0         -3.2
Crode Petroloum                                            -            45         359          296          361        435         294         .         52.0           -
Refined Petroleum                                          -             5           15          16           16         19         266                   25.0         75. 0
Phosphate Rok                                              22           24         115           75           58         64         101        1.7        37.0          6.1
Phosphate Derivates                                        18           17           80          92          139        159         437       -1.2        35.0         36.5
Agric-ltvral Productn                                      32           40           92          85           95        111         180        4.6         18.1        16.2
Te-tiles                                                     2           2           53          90          105        141         354         -         93.0         32.0
other Mannfactored Gods                                    21           38           67          70           96        118         184        12.6       12.0         21.0
Total Goods                                               121          188         859          806          928      1,107      1,886         9.2        35.5         18.5
lass Factor Sorvices                                       68           67         497          519         638         742      1,129         0.4        49.0         16.8
Total Enports                                      189          255       1,356        1,325        1,566      1,849      3,015         6.2        40.0         17.9
Imcerts (cii)
Foodstuffs                                                 34           80          225         188          225        307         503       18.7        23.0         22.0
Other Consumer Goods                                       42           41         218          217          262        309        481        -0.5        40.0         17.3
Energy                                                     11           13         140          139          155        167         118        3.4        60.0         -3.3
Intermediate Goods                                         88          113         411          410         489         585        981         5.1        29.5         19.0
Capital Goods                                              77           73         430          489          515        586        847        -1.1        43.0         11.6
Total Goods                                               252          520       1,424        1,443       1,646       1,954      2,930         4-9        35.0         15.2
Other NFS                                                  68           61         141          158          190        222        345        -2.2        18.2         16.9
Total Gonds and NFS                                       320          581       1,565        1,601       1,83-6      2,176      3,275         3.6        32.5         15.4
D.   PRICES                                                                                   1972 = 100                                           Average Annual Growth hate
Empurt price iden                                         75.5         89.7       194.9        189.6       201.8       219.8      276.6       3.5        16.8          7.9
Import price inden                                         85.8         90.7       164.1        167.9       182.0       200.0      245.2       1.1        12.6          7.9
Terms of trade inden                                       88.0         98.9       118.8        112.9       110.9       109.9      112.8       2.4         3.7           -
GDP deflator                                               70.7         92.0       135.2        142.0       153.4       164.3      203.9       5.4         8.0          7.5
Average exchange rate (TD per $)                            0.525        0.525        0.402       0.429        0.429      0.429       0.429     -          5.5           -
E.   PUBLIC FINANCE                                        In  rcene-t of GDP at Current Prices                   F.  DETAIL ON GOV'T               In Percent of Total
1965    1970      1975     1976                        SECTOR INVESTRENT             1968-71       1972-75
Current Revenue                                          19.6    21.8    24.4    22.7
Current Expendituee                                      15.0    17.9    18.0    18.0                            Social Sentors                  18.6         15.6
Current 8srplus (Central Gov't)                           4.6      3.9      6.4      4.8                         Agriculture                     23.8         13.0
other Gov't Sector Savings'                              -0.9     -0.5      0.6      0.3                         Transport and
Commanication                 12.2          15.5
Ce-trl Gov't Investment                                   7.5      3.9      4.0      4.6                         Infrastrscture                  16.0         16.4
Total Gov't Investment 2/                                11.7      8.1      8.2      8.7                         Other2                          29.4         39.5
Total                         100.0         100.0
G.   DETAIL ON CURRENT EXPENDITURE                            _     Er Percent of Total
(CENTRAL GOV')                                           1965    1970    1975    1976                           Financing
Education                                                25.7    32.1      22.3    26.3                          Public Sector Savings          29.9          59.2
Other Social Servi-es                                    15.5    16.7    11.1    13.1                            Other Financing                 15.5         20.8
Agriculture                                               5.0      3.4      5.4       7.2                        Domentic Borrowing (net)         1.8         -2.1
Other Economic Services                                  17.7    17.7    16.2    14.5                            Foreign Borrowing (net)        52.8          22.1
Administration and Defence                               36.1    30.1    45.0    38.9                            Total Financing                100.0        100.0
H.  LABOR PORCE (thousands)   1972             1976
Agricolture 31                760           764
Industry                      300           440
Services                      345           413
Unemployed                    279           264
1,684        1,881
EMENA CP II
1/  Projeoted by World Bank Staff                                                                                                            May 1978
2/ Iscludes transfers to phblic esterprises
2/ Residual



ANhEX t
page 4 of 4 page.
'UNISLA - OgLAtLE OF PAYM517S AND bXTESdAL ASSISTAdtE
(AsseontI in   lliare of US dollars) 1/
Actual                                      Eat.                            Pro reitd 2/
1970        1971        1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977         1978        1979        1980        191
SI17 3710A1ANCE OF 7A004E7TS
Ep-t (i-cl. NFS)                                  316         408          567         714       1,254       1,356       1,325       L,566       1,849       2,138       2,546        3,015
tpon s            incl. NFS)                      381         442         593         782       1            1.565       1.601         836       2.176       2.526       2.882        3.274
Irsounco BalancM                                  -65          -34         -26         -68          12        -209        -276        -270        -327        -388         -336        -259
Ne  Inteatc  Paynenta                             -50          -18         -18        -13            2          -5         -42         -50         -65          -86        -114        -140
ot  bjet-: Iv_rres  on Pubic Loans             (-17)       (-20)        (-22)      (-27)        (-31)       (-37)       (-40)       FAa)        (-69)        (-94)     (-126)       (-157)
Dicnect -nurarent Income                           -9         -10          -25         -35        -36          -37         -35         -47          -58        -70          -81         -93
o       Rnrs'   cRgiotncos                        29          44           62          98         119         146         135         142          149         156         164         172
Ocher let Facnor Senvices                          -8         -39          -41         -82       -103         -116        -107        -118        -130        -143         -157       -173
Cu-rrun T-rof-rr (-ne)                             17           16           6           4           1         _-3           2            7           7           7           7           7
Balarce on Lorroct Accoun-                        -93         -41          -42        -96           -3        -224        -323        -336        -424        -524        -317         -486
Frivate Dinrec  lnvrstlrnn                         19           24          31          57          49          48          63          75          86          ItO         121         133
Oflicial Capitol Gnants                            43           35          37          45          43          50          45          45          40           40          40          38
Public M * tl Ioane:
Disbunreents                                    62         107         140         153         174          211         215         407         470         590         622         661
-Att,rnaaicon                                     -45         -49         -70         -59         -59          -66         -70         -73         -87        - 128       -177        -248
eN tilsbrcFerunts                               37          58          70          94         115          145         215         334         383         462         445         413
Capital Trcncaa nova ael. 3                        13           24        -19           -8          99         -62          -3          -            -
Change in Net R.a-ves (uncnaaa-)-                 -19        -100          -77        -92         -103          43           3         118         -85         -88         -89         -98
le  Foni.n  Reresa                                 15         115          192         294         387         344         341         459         544         632          721         819
(-nhs of icp-rtc  qui-aleot)                      0.5         3.1         3.9         4.4         3.7          2.6         2.5         3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0         3.0
B.   lBLIC LOAS COMMIITENTS                                                                                                                                                  Attual Debt O-tandica or Dec. 31. 1975
IBD                                               -           37           36          25          64          37          65                                              81.b. OnlY   In P rc. t of Total
I0A                                                10          10           10           7          -           -           -          C.   EXTERNAL DEBT
otneo  cltilaenaL                                  -           -             I          -           12          11          24              World Bnrk                         109.8              10.2
Go-enu_enta                                       100          84          106         138          86         282          98               IDA                                55.3               5.2
Suppliers                                           8            5           7          12           2          27          49               Other Wtltilat-ral                  8.6               0.8
Financial Insninu1ione                             21          28           28          17          12          20           7               Goverarna                         691.8             64.6
Toa  Public M   LIT Loans                         139         144          089         199         176         377         243              Supplier.                           86.8               8.1
FLpiecfil Itrtitutia.s             99.3               9.3
lBeds                               1.1              0.1
Public Dbc  .e.i.                  18.6               1.7
Tocal Publin M   L LT Debt      1,071.3             108.0
D    SDEoT AND DeBT SERVICE
Public Xbt lutrt. + Dlabu-sd                      524         604         680          807         954       1,071       1,280
lonerset on Pablc D6bt                           17          20          22          27          31          37           60
Asomrntesclon                                    45          49           70          59          59          66          70
local public Debt Servic                         62          69          92          86          90          103         110
aurden on Eaor"t E-tninsg  47 (%)
Public Debt servic                               19.6        16.7        16.2         12.0         7.2         7.6         8.3
ItS + Dlectone c. Icc.                           22.5        19.1        20.6        16.9        10.0         10.3        10.9
Average Trees of Public Debt
Innt  as 7. of Prior YSer DO + D                  3.3         3.8         3.6         4.0         3.8          3.9         3.7
A-s rt. ae 7. Prior Year DO + D                   9.5         9.1         11.6         8.7         7.3         6.9         6.5
18lD Xbt Out. I Disbursed                          26          39          52           70          89         110         128
IbRD as 7. of Public DBbt                           5.0         6.5          7.6        8.7          9.3        10.3        10.0
IbED  s 7. of 7ublic Debt Sevce                     4.2         5.3          6.5         9.4        12.0        13.3        12.9
IDA Debt Out. sad Diebureed           a            16          21           28         57           43          55          64
IDA a- % of Pubiti Debt                             3.1         3.5          4.1         4.6         4.5         5.1         5.0
IDA a  7. of Public Debt Serice                     0.1          0.2         0.3         0.4         0.4         0.4         0.5
1/  Eschege estee teed fn thf -arinas stocks sed flove cerrsepccd tc  thee publisbhd In IFS.
2/  Pro-ected by World b5nk Sceff.                                                                                                                                                 E1 CP II
3/  In_idludg      e and orie n.                                                                                                                                                   Na  1978
4/  Includins non-f actor servics.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1978)
Loan or
Credit                                                                                            Amount (less cancellation)
Number     Year      Borrower                                 Purpose                             Bank       IDA       Undis.
Twenty-one loans and credits fully disbursed                                                      116.9      58.5
238         1971     Republic of Tunisia                      Population                                      4.8        2.1
270         1971     Republic of Tunisia                      Fisheries                                       2.0        0.3
798         1972     Societe Nationale d'Investissement    Development Finance Co.                 10.0                  0.9
858         1972     Republic of Tunisia                      Tourism Infrastructure               14 0                 10.3
881         1973     Societe Nationale d'Investissement    Development Finance Co.                 14.0                  0.6
937         1973     Republic of Tunisia                      Urban Planning & Public
Transportation                    11.0                  2.1
989         1974     SONEDE                                   Water Supply                         23.0                  4.7
1029         1974     Republic of Tunisia                      Hotel Training                        5 6                  5 1
1042         1974     Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de GAFSA                Phosphate Development                23.3                 13.5
1068         1974     Republic of Tunisia                      Irrigation Rehabilitation            12.2                  8.6
1088         1975     Republic of Tunisia                      Urban Sewerage                       28.0                 26.3
1155         1975     Republic of Tunisia                      Education                             8.9                  8.9
1188         1976     Republic of Tunisia                      Highways                             28.0                 28 0
1189         1976     Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie (BDET)           Development Finance Co.              20.0                 8.0
238-1       1976     Republic of Tunisia                      Population                                      4.8        1.4
1340         1976     Banque Nationale de Tunisie              Agricultural Credit                  12.0                 11.8
1355         1976     Societe Tunisienne de
lElectricite et: du Caz               Power                                14.5                  1.8
1431         1977     Republic of Tunisia a/                   Irrigation Development               42.0                 42.0
1445         1977     SONEDE                                   Water Supply                         21.0                 20.8
1504         1977     BDET  a/                                 Development Finance Co.              30.0                 30.0
1505         1977     Republic of Tunisia  a/                  Small-scale Industrial project        5.0        _         5.0
TOTAL                                                                                            439.4      70.1     232.2
Of which has been repaid                                                                        37.5       4.0
Total now outstanding                                         ..                                 401.9      66.1
Amount Sold                  13.1
of which has been repaid    3.0                                                                 10.1
391.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/                             ..                                 401.9      66.1
Total undisbursed                                                                                228.4       3.8     232.2
a/ Not vet effective         h/ Prior to Pxcbsnpe qdjustmert.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of March 31, 1978)
Year         Obligor                                           Type of business                     Amount in US $ Million
Loan    Equity      Total
1962        NPK Engrais                                        Fertilizers                           2.0       1.5        3.5
1966        Societe Nationale d'Investissement                 Development Finance Co.                         0.6        0.6
1969        COFITOUR (Tourism)                                 Development Finance Co.               8.0       2.2       10.2
1970        Societe Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                                Development Finance Co.                         0.6       0.6
1973        Societe Touristique & Hoteliere RYM SA.            Tourism                               1.6       0.3        1.9
1973        Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord                                     Tourism
1975        Societe d'Etude & de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord                                     Tourism                               2.5       0.6        3.1
1974        Industries Chimiques du Fluor                      Chemicals                                       0.7        C.7
1978        BDET                                               Development Finance Co.               -         1.3        1.3
Total gross commitments                                       ..                                 14.1        7.8       21.9
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales                                               3.8       1.6        5.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                                                                10.3        6.2       16.5
Total undisbursed    ..                                                                             2.5        0.7        3.2



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Cr. 238:    Population Project; US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1976; (Current) June 30, 1978.
Cr. 238-1: Population Project: US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit of
October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: March 31, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Through capable management the National Office of Family Planning
and Population is developing the national program steadily. The number of
new acceptors continues to increase, and the Office forecasts that in 1981
there will be 87,000 births averted instead of 55,000 as planned. Under the
project twenty-nine MCH clinics have been completed. Construction of the
three maternities at Sfax, Sousse and Tunis were also completed at the end of
1977, but late delivery and installation of medical equipment could delay full
operations until September 1978. The problems of the foundations for Bizerte
maternity hospital are being studied anew, and Government is expected to make
major implementation decisions soon. The Avicenne mid-wifery school is in
full operation and, in 1976, gave diplomas to 35 mid-wives and 62 nurses.
Disbursements on the original IDA credit and the supplementary credit provided
by NORAD are now satisfactory.
Cr. 270:    Fisheries Project; US$2 million credit of September 24, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: May 24, 1972; Closing Date: (original) December
31, 1976; (Current) July 31, 1978.
More than 95 percent of project funds are now committed and 131
project vessels, out of 190, have been delivered to fishermen. The demand for
project boats has increased during the last six months because of the drastic
improvement of the after-sales service and the relatively low cost of project
boats. The recovery of loans provided under the project to the fishermen
remains a matter of concern as about 60 percent of the funds advanced are over-
due. BNT and Direction des Peches have been advised to follow a procedure by
which fishermen will be repaying their loans monthly instead of annually and
the defaulters to pay daily instead of monthly. The loan recovery system is
not yet finalized but the measures are expected to be in force not later than
three months from now. The project is expected to be completed by September
1978 and the closing date of the Credit will have to be postponed from July 31,
1978 to December 31, 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Ln. 989:  Third Water Supply Project; US$23 million loan of May 29, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Ln. 1445: Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982.
Construction of the works programmed under the Third Project is
progressing well. The project is now expected to be completed by March 1979,
only six months behind the appraisal schedule. Actual disbursements are
higher than anticipated during appraisal. The loan for the Fourth Project
became effective on January 30, 1978.  The project execution is proceeding
according to the appraisal schedule. Final engineering design of the project
components has been completed and bidding of the works has started.
Ln. 1188: Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Construction has started on two lots of the Tunis-Bizerte highway,
but the works on other road sections are encountering delays. Consultants
have completed the preparation of a pilot rural roads project. The updating
of the 1968 transport survey started early in 1978.
Ln 1340: Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$12 million loan of November
23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
BNT and the Ministry of Agriculture have agreed on field appraisal
procedures and eligibility criteria to be used under the project for the small
farmers. BNT has started committing funds under categories B and D of the
project and prospects for the commitment of funds for small and medium size
farms under category A are good. The project has been delayed by insufficient
staffing of BNT branch offices and the excessive centralization of appraisals
at the head office in Tunis. BNT has indicated its determination to resolve
these problems.
Ln. 1355: Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of December 27, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness:  May 4, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
The Project comprises 150 MW of combustion turbine capacity in seven
units of equal size to be installed at different locations and is estimated to
cost US$28.7 million equivalent, including a foreign exchange component of
US$24.8 million equivalent. In view of the proposed development of offshore
natural gas resources, the substitution of gas for oil for power generation
in future and STEG's likely responsibility for distribution of offshore gas
throughout the country, STEG would undertake a study to establish its organ-
ization structure, its training needs and investments for the gas program.
Government has also agreed to undertake a study with a view to determining an
appropriate pricing policy for oil, gas and electricity and submit the recom-
mendations to the Bank by September 1978. Regarding financial performance,



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
STEG has undertaken to earn an 8 percent rate of return beginning with 1977.
Tariffs were raised effective June 2, 1977, by 20 percent. Due to delay in
increasing tariffs, an 8 percent return has not been achieved in 1977, but it
should be achieved in 1978 without further tariff action, provided there is no
material increase in the cost of salaries and fuel.
Ln. 858: Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan and US$10 million
Cr. 329: credit, both of September 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: June 26,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
In spite of minor delays in awarding the remaining construction
contracts, overall project implementation is proceeding according to the
schedule set after the redefinition of the project in 1976. Ninety percent of
infrastructure works are under construction and 40 percent has been completed.
Overall project completion is expected by mid-1979.  Final project cost is
estimated in the order of TD 31.5 million. Although it will result in some 20
percent more than the appraisal estimates, the Loan and Credit along with the
KfW co-financing, are expected to cover all foreign expenditures. Disbursement
percentages have been reduced to allow the Bank to disburse until the comple-
tion of all project expenditures.
Ln. 881:  Fifth Development Finance Company Project; US$14 million loan of
February 20, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: May 24, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978.
Ln. 1189: Sixth Development Finance Company Project; US$20 million loan of
January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
Loan 881 is fully committed and $0.6 million remain to be disbursed:
the utilization of the loan has been generally in line with the appraisal
report's projection, which foresaw the loan to be fully disbursed by March,
1977. Disbursements on Loan 1189 had reached $12.5 million as of May 1978,
about 2 months ahead of the schedule projected in the appraisal report. BDET
has shown considerable improvement since early 1976 in the key areas of man-
agement effectiveness, arrears recovery, financial practices and resource
mobilization. The institution plays an increasingly important role in financ-
ing industrial development, extending about one-third of all term credit
available to the industrial sector in Tunisia. It is now in the process of
organizing itself to improve its ability to lend to small scale industry and
to labor intensive, decentralized and export-oriented projects.
Ln. 937:  Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project; US$11
Cr. 432:  million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October 5, 1973; Date
of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1978.
Execution of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The Tunis
District has been well established and operates with only residual technical
assistance. The District has finished its work on the Tunis strategic regional



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
development plan and is now regularly associated with or consulted on all
major public investment decisions in the Greater Tunis area. The Societe
Nationale des Transports (SNT) has renewed its bus fleet, as well as its
maintenance services. SNT's clientele has increased in an unprecedented
manner; combined with improvements in routes and tariff structures and with
regular payment by the Government of compensation for social tariffs, this has
resulted in increased revenues sufficient to offset the effect of a substan-
tial salary raise. Complementary financing has been found to finance the
construction of the third bus depot and the cost overruns on the railway
rolling stock. The rolling stock to modernize its suburban railway line was
delivered last June. The civil works for the traffic improvement program of
the Municipality of Tunis are now in execution; new traffic and parking regu-
lations have been established, and special bus lanes and pedestrian areas
have been opened.
Ln. 1029: Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975; Closing Date: October 31, 1978.
Construction of the first two centers started in July 1977. Con-
struction which has been very slow in the past, is expected to pick up. Invi-
tations to bid for the equipment contracts were sent out on February 12, 1978.
Revised cost estimates indicate a project cost of TD 7.6 million (US$17.4
million), 41 percent higher than the appraisal estimate of TD 5.4 million
(US$12.3 million). ONTT has created a company to manage its practice hotels
and restaurants. This should facilitate considerably operation of the project
facilities. The technical assistance component has been completed. The
courses which will be used for the hotel training project are being tested in
ONTT's existing schools.
Ln. 1042: Gafsa Phosphate Project, US$23.3 million loan of October 1, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Underground mining operations using the longwall method were intended
to supply phosphate rock to the Sehib beneficiation plant to be commissioned
by the end of 1979. Following the failure of the related tests, a study will
determine alternative open pit mining operations. The Company's financial
loss for the year 1977 reached US$6.0 million. The updated financial projec-
tions show that due to excess labor, very low productivity and some lack of
skills in overall mine planning and in general management, the Gafsa Company
will face a very tight financial squeeze during the next five years if the
proposed investment programn is not scaled down or if the capital contributions
are not substantially incr,eased. To improve the Company's overall situation,
Gafsa has been asked to reduce the proposed capital expenditures and make
better use of technical assistance.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. 1068: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in the Medjerda subproject area has been satisfactory, with
the exception of enforcement of certain provisions of the land reform legisla-
tion. Intensification of cropping has been started. In Nebhana, land reform
implementation continues and work is now underway to intensify agricultural
production. Consultants have been recruited and various studies necessary for
project implementation and for expansion into a second stage project have been
prepared. Rehabilitation and construction works are progressing satisfac-
torily.
Ln. 1088: First Urban Sewerage Project; US$28 million loan of February 18,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date: June
15, 1979.
A delay of about six months was experienced at the beginning of
project implementation as a result of legislative measures required to estab-
lish the new national sewerage authority (Office National de l'Assainissement -
ONAS) and the numerous minor administrative problems involved in the physical
transfer to ONAS of system and employees from the centers taken over.  As a
result uf these initial delays, it is expected that the works will be completed
about 18 months after the date foreseen at the time of appraisal. Revised
cost estimates indicate that total project cost may increase by 40 percent over
estimates, most of the increase being in the local cost components. The report
of consultants retained for studies of the Tunisian construction industry has
been completed and its conclusions and recommendations are being reviewed by
Government.
Ln. 1155: Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Since the July 1976 mission which reviewed project implementation,
there has been no progress. The Government has indicated that owing to a
change in its education priorities, it no longer wishes to proceed with the
project items as they were conceived during appraisal, and to use the loan
proceeds to extend post-primary education. The rationale for the change in
educational priorities and suggested steps for the future of the loan have
just been conveyed to the Bank by the government. The government has been
informed that the Bank cannot agree to the current proposals because they
would not meet the priority needs of the education sector in Tunisia as
outlined in the objectives of the original project, and that the Bank would
be pleased to receive a revised proposal based more closely on the objectives
for which the Bank's funds have been committed. The situation is currently
being further discussed with the Government.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. 1431: Sidi Salem Multi-purpose Project; US$42 million loan of July 5, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing Date June 30, 1984.
The loan is expected to become effective by July 31, 1978. All of the
conditions of effectiveness have been met except for the receipt of the legal
opinion on the Bank loan and the exchange of the supplemental letters between
KfW and Tunisian Government. Construction of the site camp facilities is
almost completed and most of the equipment was mobilized and installed by the
contractor. Progress in implementation of the Sidi Salem Dam and railroad sub-
structure is satisfactory. Tunisian agencies have employed consultant firms,
and are now preparing technical and tender documents.
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project; US$35 millionloan of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The loan is expected to become effective by June 30, 1978. BDET
created a new units for fostering small scale enterprises (SSE) to the satis-
faction of the Bank. Furthermore, arrangements must be firmed up by July 1,
1978, as regards the organization of a system of technical assistance and
extension services for SEEs. Measures yet to be taken before loan effective-
ness include: (i) amendement of the FOPRODI Agreement between the Government
and the participating Banks to reflect the negotiated operational arrangements
for SSE, and conclusion of a similar agreement between the Government and BDET,
and (ii) establishment in the Central Bank of a project account for the Bank
financed new SSE operations.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare          About 9 months (from March 1977
the project:                                  to November 1977) - complete
preparation of 19 roads (about
400 km) and identification of a
further 40 roads (about 600 km)
(b)  The agencies which prepared the               Ministries of Public Works
project:                                      and Agriculture
(c) Date of first presentation to the
Bank and date of the first Bank
mission to consider the project:              April 1975, December 1975
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:                  October 1977
(e)  Negotiations completed:                       May 19, 1978
(f)  Loan effectiveness planned:                   October 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions in the Loan Agreement
Conditions of loan effectiveness would be: (i) the formal estab-
lishment of the Coordination Committee including its legal standing, powers
and terms of reference (para. 58) and (ii) the signature of the agreement with
Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT) (para. 57). Measures to be taken include:
(a) the Government will promptly provide the resources required to
reinforce agricultural extension services in the zones of
influence of the proposed project roads (para. 48);
(b) the Government and BNT will follow the procedures and criteria
established for the preparation and Bank approval of sub-projects
(paras. 52 and 53);
(c) the Government will cause BNT to finance up to $3.3 million equiv-
alent for the foreign costs of the 1979-80 investment credit
needs from the Second Agricultural Credit project, and ensure
availability of all funds necessary for all credit needs in the
zones of influence of the project roads (paras. 49 and 56);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(d) the Government will assign specific overall responsibility for
project implementation to the MPW (para. 58); and
(e) the Government will cause each executing agency to maintain
separate accounts for its part of project work and submit
annual financial statements to the Bank (para. 63).
.






IBRD 13318
.TINSIA tA
'd f                  c       e '   '    '  t' '"'  "' '  "'-      ' ''i '''-''' '-' '' ' '         ' ''A  RURAL R ADS    PRO CT
..  -M  e. d i t e, r r o n,.e da ' n        .e    ..     ..d      
PROJECT AREAS
r  =ubo   J voursoyixe~~~~~~~~ourngsla                                       r w              |vz    eod
d d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hedSsfe  ttd
A'i'~;<                                                        ei =                                        #nd-f    f
ll~~~~~    ~Zousrah                                           c~ rmai      hiled                                       cw R fOco i
Che ls 3R   Tarva  jGPI1 Pmary
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a                                                                         n                    .C7                         S s  _=tw 
maou    k-                       agh.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dCd                          egtdt
/  =----------=-=-  f                                         \              iFuff  of  Gbes~~~q  ut/   o
*   tt  ;       0    -       |                   MatrnotaX          V        / t       f  t-5>Zfilfwis~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  I    ~  3,   -
3s4,
-36                                                  soD                             332                  _t ieein<                   
9\13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eni Khpdoche                                                      o-  t
iGoumrasse  M                                   B           .  -
IB  22   ~            ~               LBY
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G 13    9r
t ~~~~~~~~~The snap has been prepare:d by toe World Sen*ksstaff eurcluosoelY for the tnonmense Cu/ 
\   \ |            ~~~~~~o/ theraeadats of thef repont to wuhich ,t c attached The denommat,o,, used end the 
\  f              aff~~~~~~olibetes. any ludgment on thet legal status of any ter,,tory or any endorsement or 
oufoepteouo of soon boundaIes           >
8                                                                               0' lo> Retttd5                                                           MARtCH l978



