CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1601 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Rural Roads Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 24, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1601 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 24, 1978, bet;een REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) by the Loan Agreement dated December 17, 1976 between
the Bank and Banque Nationale de Tunisie (hereinafter called
BNT), the bank made a loan (Loan No. 1340-TUN) to BNT to assist in
the financing of the Second Agricultural Credit Project in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million dollars
($12,000,000), upon the terms and conditions set forth in the said
Loan Agreement;
(C) BNT has represented, inter alia, to the Borrower and
the Bank that it is agreeable to use up to an aggregate amount of
three million three hundred thousand dollars ($3,300,000) out of
the proceeds of Loan No. 1340-TUN allocated to Part A and Part B
ot the Second Agricultural Credit Project to the extent that said
proceeds are available (provided, however, that the proceeds
allocated to Part B of the said Project and to be so used shall
not exceed an aggregate amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000)
equivalent) for the provision of medium- and long-term credit to
farmers included in Part D (2) of this Project, and for such
purpose BNT will enter into an Agreement with the Borrower on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower, the Bank and
BNT;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFOKE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions 01 Lie GeeLdl CutiditionS Applicablc to Loan


﻿-2-
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Rural Road" means a road, under Part A of the Project,
carrying  predominantly  agriculture-related  traffic, generally
unpaved, irrespective of its classification as primary, secondary
or tertiary road by the MPW, and located outside urban areas in
the Borrower's territory;
(b) "MPW"' means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works
(Ministere de l'Equipement);
(c) "DPC" means the Direction des Ponts et Chaussees, a
directorate established and operating within MPW;
(d) "MA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(e) "DPA" means the Direction de la Production Agricole,
a directorate established and operating within MA;
(f) "DPAEP" means the Direction du Plan, de l'Analyse
Economique et des Projets, a directorate established and operating
within MA;
(g) "CRDAs" mean the Commissariats R6gionaux de Deve-
loppement Agricole, provincial field divisions established and
operating within MA;
(h) "Tunisian Dinars" and the letter "D" mean dinars in
the currency of the Borrower;
(i) "BNT Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and BNT pursuant to Recital C of the
Preamble to, and Section 3.02 of, this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the BNT Agreement;


﻿-3-
(j) "BNT Statutes" means the statutes of BNT as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(k) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by BNT to a Sub-borrower for short-term credit in accordance with
the provisions of the Short-term Credit Convention or fcr an
Investment Project in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5
to this Agreement;
(1) "Sub-borrower" means the recipient of a Sub-loan;
(m) "Investment Project" means a specific project for
any of the investments included in Part D (2) and (3) of the
Project, to be carried out by a Sub-borrower utilizing the pro-
ceeds of a Sub-loan;
(n) "Project Coordination Committee" means the committee
referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
(o) "Controleur Financier" means the agent referred to in
Article 19 of the Borrower's Law No. 58-76 of July 9, 1958, and in
Article 11 of the Borrower's Decree No. 73-391 of August 2, 1973;
(p) "service cooperative" means a cooperative providing
tractor and harvesting services to small and medium farmers;
and
(q) "Short-term Credit Convention" means the agreement
dated September 10, 1974, between the Borrower and BNT for the
provision of short-term credit to small and medium farmers.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-two million dollars ($32,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in


﻿respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i) carry out Parts A, B and E of the Project through
DPC;
(ii) carry out Part C of the Project through DPA;
and
(iii) cause BNT to carry out Part D of the Project in
accordance with the provisions of the BNT
Agreement;


﻿- 5 -
all under the overall supervision of MPW with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required.for the purpose.
(b) For the purpose of coordinating the activities of the
Borrower's departments and agencies, of BNT and of any other
entities responsible for, or involved in, the execution of the
Project or any part thereof, the Borrower shall establish and
thereafter, until the completion of the Project, operate and
maintain a Project Coordination Committee, with such powers,
functions and responsibilities as shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation on the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
enter into an Agreement with BNT, in form and substance satisfac-
tory to the Bank, providing, inter alia:
(i) for an undertaking by the Borrower to make avail-
able out of its own resources to BNT, as and when
needed, such amoupts as BNT shall require towards
the financing of Sub-loans under Part D (2) of the
Project and such dther amounts as BNT shall require
to make grants to Sub-borrowers, who are small and
medium farmers, under said Part D (2), such grants
representing for each category of Investment
Project up to the percentage of its total cost
specified in paragraph C.1 (i) of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement;
(ii) for an undertaking by the Borrower to make avail-
able to BNT up to an amount of four million eight
hundred thousand dollars ($4,800,000) equivalent
out of the proceeds of the Loan for the financing
in part of the Sub-loans under Part D (3) of the
Project, and an amount equivalent      one million
six hundred thousand dollars ($1,600,000), approxi-
mately, out of its own resources, for the financing
of said Sub-loans;
(iii) for an undertaking by the Borrower to reimburse,
at intervals of twelve months, to BNT: (A) amounts


﻿- 6 -
equal to the difference between the amounts of
interest and other charges on Loan No. 1340-TUN,
paid by BNT to the Bank, and the amounts due to BNT
as interest on Sub-loans financed in part out of
the proceeds of Loan No. 1340-TUN; and (B) a
commission equal to 3% per annum of the aggregate
principal amount of the Sub-loans outstanding from
time to time under Part D (2) and (3) of the
Project;
(iv) for an undertaking by BNT to contribute up to five
million eight hundred thousand dollars ($5,800,000)
equivalent towards the financing of Sub-loans under
Part D (1) of the Project in accordance with the
provisions of the Short-term Credit Convention;
(v) for an undertaking by BNT to maintain, in respect
of each Sub-loan under Part D of the Project,
separate sets of accounts (for each zone of influ-
ence of the Rural Roads) adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices: (A) the nature of the funds
made available to BNT by the Borrower for the
purpose. of enabling BNT to make each Sub-loan; (B)
the &:ounts disbursed under each Sub-loan; (C)
the amounts of principal, interest and other
charges due in respect of each Sub-loan; and (D)
the amounts of principal, interest and other
charges payable to BNT on account of each Sub-loan
and overdue by two years or more;
(vi) for an undertaking by BNT pursuant to which any
Sub-loan under Part D (1) of the Project will be
made in accordance with the provisions of the
Short-term Credit Convention and any Sub-loan under
Part D (2) and (3) of the Project will be made on
terms and conditions consistent with the lending
policies and procedures set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement, and in accordance with the provi-
sions of Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement for the
Second Agricultural Credit Project;
(vii) for an undertaking by BNT to provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the strengthening of its


﻿-7-
branches in the zones of influence of the Rural
Roads; and
(viii) for an undertaking by BNT (1) to furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year, (A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested, and (2) to
furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
ing its accounts and financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 3.03. The Borrower, through the Project Coordination
Committee, shall promptly make arrangements acceptable to the
Bank: (i) with the entities involved in the carrying out of the
Investment Projects under Part D (3) of the Project or any part
thereof, such as Office des C&reales for grain facilities,
Societe Tunisienne d'Industries Laitieres for milk facilities,
Societe Nationale de Motoculture or service cooperatives for
workshops for the rental and maintenance of agricultural equipment
and the purchase, by service cooperatives, of machinery and
equipment for agricultural production; and (ii) with the entities
involved in the carrying out of Part C of the Project or any part
thereof, such as Office de la Mise en Valeur de la Vallee de la
Medjerda et des Perimetres Publics Irrigu6s, Office de la
Mise en Valeur de Nebhana and Office de Mise en Valeur de Lakhmes
for extension services within their jurisdiction and Office
National de 1'Elevage et des Paturages for livestock improvement
and fodder crop production.
Section 3.04. In order to assist DPA in the introduction of
new cropping patterns and in the complementary training of exten-
sion agents under Part C of the Project, and in order to assist
DPC in the carrying out of Part E of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ experts and consultants whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 3.05. In the carrying out of Part C of the Project,
the Borrower shall ensure that qualified and experienced agri-
cultural extension engineers and technicians are promptly assigned


﻿- 8 -
in sufficient numbers, and to make available or cause to make
available to said engineers and technicians necessary resources
so that they carry out the recommendations of the respective
extension manuals applicable to the zones of influence of the
Rural Roads with due diligence and efficiency.
Section 3.06. For the carrying out of Part A (2) of the
Project and the portion of Parts C and D relating to said Part
A (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the following
procedures are complied with:
(a) if not yet submitted, a report shall be submitted, as
soon as available, by the Project Coordination Committee to the
Bank for its review and comments, evidencing that, on the basis of
an initial screening of a rural road or a group of rural roads and
agricultural investments related thereto, further preparation and
economic and financial analyses thereof may be processed;
(b) all Rural Road sections under Part A (2) of the Project
together with agricultural investments related thereto shall be
grouped to the extent feasible. The Project Coordination Committee
shall submit to the Bank for its approval, in respect of each such
group:
(i) a report covering, for each Rural Road section,
preliminary engineering and cost estimates of
construction and periodic and routine maintenance;
(ii) a report on present and estimated future traffic in
the zone of influence of each Rural Road included
in each such group, and on proposed agricultural
investments related to each such group, showing,
inter alia, an economic return and an implementa-
tion schedule therefor, all acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank;
(iii) a proposed extension manual, including a specific
action program for recommended actions, production
goals to be attained and monitoring procedures,
applicable to the zone of influence of each such
Rural Road; an*
(iv) computer input and output data for each such Rural
Road of such scope and in such detail as the data
for Rural Roads under Part A (1) of the Project.


﻿-9-
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall make, and maintain in
effect, arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to protect BNT
against losses in connection with the payment of interest or
other charges on, or the repayment of principal of, Loan No.
1340-TUN or the proceeds of this Loan, resulting from changes in
the rate of exchange between Tunisian dinars and the currency or
currencies in which such payments are to be made.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the planr,,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) s'..l maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Without any limitation on the generality of tho fore-
going and except as the Bank may otherwise agree: (i) the Bor-
rower, through the Project Coordination Committee, shall furnish


﻿- 10 -
to the Bank a progress report on all Project activities, of such
detail and in such scope as the Bank shall reasonably request,
within six months after the Effective Date for the first time, and
thereafter within forty-five calendar days after each calendar
quarter; and (ii) beginning in 1979, not later than September 30
of each calendar year, the Borrower, through the Project Coordina-
tion Committee, shall furnish to the Bank for its review and
comments annual operating plans with respect to all Project
activities for each following calendar year. The DPC field divi-
sions, CRDAs, BNT, the Borrower's departments and agencies and any
other entities responsible for, or involved in, the carrying out
of the Project or any part thereof, shall respectively prepare
said operating plans and forward them to the Project Coordination
Committee for its approval before their transmittal to the Bank.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out Part A and the Investment Projects under
Part D (3) of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member
concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the


﻿- 11 -
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allo-
cation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and ia!terest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain or cause to
be maintained accounts and records adequate to reflect, separ-
ately, in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower and
any other entity involved in the carrying out of the Project or
any part thereof; and
(b) cause the entities involved in the carrying out of Part
C of the Project to: (i) have their accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year verified, in accordance


﻿- 12 -
with appropriate accounting principles consistently applied,
by Contr8leurs Financiers; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of said financial
statements for such year as so verified and (B) the report of such
verification by said Contr^leurs Financiers, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the said accounts and financial statements and the verification
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause all the Rural Roads
as well as the other improved rural roads offering an appropriate
level of service to be adequately maintained and shall cause all
necessary repairs thereof promptly to be made, all in accordance
with sound engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, equipment, services and other
resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall continue to collect or
cause to be collected in accordance with appropriate statistical
methods and procedures such other technical, economic and finan-
cial information as shall be reasonably required for the proper
planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions of the rural
road network of the Bo,:rower together with agricultural invest-
ments related thereto and shall furnish to the Bank such informa-
tion in respect thereof as the Bank shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or BNT shall have failed to perform any of
its respective covenants, agreements or obligations under the BNT
Agreement;
(b) the BNT Agreement, or any provision thereof, has been
assigned, amended, abrogated or waived without the prior consent
of the Bank;


﻿- 13 -
(c) the BNT Statutes shall have been amended or repealed so
as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial
condition of BNT; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BNT or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the BNT Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and BNT, respectively, have been duly
authorized or approved by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(b) the Project Coordination Committee has been established
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the BNT Agreement has been duly authorized or
approved by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower
and BNT and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BNT in
accordance with its terms; and


﻿- 14 -
(b) the Project Coordination Committee has been duly and
effectively established under the Borrower's laws and regula-
tions.
Section 6.03. The date November 22, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre D616gus aupres du Premier Ministre
Charg6 du Plan of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
1, rue de Beja
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTERE DU PLAN                 MIPLAN 12117
Tunis                             TN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Ali Hedda
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works for             15,100,000         40%
Part A of the
Project
(2) Materials and                3,500,000         100% of foreign
equipment for                                 expenditures
Part B of the                                 and 80% of local
Project                                       expenditures
(3) Equipment for                1,300,000         55%
Part C of the
Project
(4) Investment Projects          4,800,000         100% of foreign
under Part D (3) of                           expenditures or
the Project                                   75% of amounts
disbursed by
BNT against
Sub-loans
(5) Technical assistance           100,000         75%
under Part C of the
Project
(6) Technical assistance           700,000         75%
under Part E of the
Project
(7) Unallocated                  6,500,000
TOTAL       32,000,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
and services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The total percentage of expenditures to be financed under
Category (4) for any Investment Project under Part D (3) of the
Project shall not exceed 75% of the total amount disbursed by
BNT against the Sub-loan for any such Investment Project.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by,
or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 18 -
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program under its
Fifth Development Plan to improve its rural road network in
order to help increasing agricultural production and raising the
farmers' standards of living. Its objectives are to establish a
pilot scheme for the development of the Borrower's rural road
network and the improvement of its maintenance, together with the
strengthening of agricultural extension services and the provision
of agricultural credit for complementary investments in the zones
of influence of the Rural Roads.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Rural Road Improvement.
Rehabilitation, upgrading or construction of the following
Rural Road sections totalling about 1,000 kms, in accordance with
the design standards specified in Annex I to this Schedule:
(1) 18 Rural Road sections totalling about 400 kms, as more
detailed in Annex II to this Schedule; and
(2) about 40 Rural Road sections totalling about 600 kms,
as more detailed in Annex II to this Schedule and as
agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the
Bank.
B.   Purchase of rural road maintenance equipment, spare parts and
workshop machine tools.
C.   Strengthening of agricultural extension services in the
zones of influence of the Rural Roads including, inter alia, the
purchase of equipment, the recruitment of specialized extension
agents in communications with farmers and the provision of techni-
cal assistance for the introduction of new cropping patterns
(about 12 man-months' services) and for complementary training of
extension agents through seminars (about 6 man-months' services)
and short-term traineeships abroad.
D.   Provision by BNT of Sub-loans for: (1) short-term credit to
farmers for the purchase of inputs; (2) medium- and long-term
credit to farmers for Investment Projects; and (3) medium- and


﻿- 20 -
long-term credit to Sociftf Tunisienne d'Industries Laitieres,
Office des C6rfales, Sociftf Nationale de Motoculture and service
cooperatives, inter alia, for Investment Projects such as the
construction and equipping of milk and grain collection facilities
and of workshops for the rental and maintenance of agricultural
equipment, respectively, and to service cooperatives for the
purchase of machinery and equipment for agricultural production.
E.   Economic, technical and financial analyses of about 2,500 kms
of additional selected rural roads to be improved together with
agricultural investments related thereto, with the assistance of
about 130 man-months' consultant services therefor.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 21 -
ANNEX I TO SCHEDULE 2
Design and Structural Standards
The Borrower shall improve the Rural Road sections included
in Part A of the Project in accordance with the design and struc-
tural standards set out below:
GEOMETRIC DESIGN STANDARDS
Design Speed km/hr
40    60    80    100
Absolute minimum radius m       40    120   240    425
Desirable minimum radius m     120    240   425    665
Absolute maximum grade  %       10      9     8      7
Desirable maximum grade %        8      7     6      5
RURAL ROAD DESIGN STANDARDS
Traffic Class (ADT)*
Item                  50   50-100   100-300   300-19000
Roadway Width m
Carriageway             5      6       6.0         6.0
Shoulder                0      0       1.5         2.5
Design Speed, km/hr
Flat terrain        ) no formal       80         100
Rolling terrain     )   design        60          80
Mountainous terrain )   speed         40          60
*    ADT = Average Daily Traffic.


﻿- 22 -
ROADWAY STRUCTURES
Soil                             Traffic Class (ADT)*
Associate        50           50-100       100-300       300-1,000**
Average   Subbase  Base  Subbase  Base  Subbase Base   Subbase  Base
CBR***
Class      %        mm      mm     mm      mm     mm     mm     mm      mm
S1        5          0    250     150    150     250    150    300    150
S2        9          0    200       0    250     200   150     250    150
S3       22          0    150       0    200     150   150     200    150
S4       37          0    150       0    150       0   150     150    150
*    ADT - Average Daily Traffic.
**   Bituminous surface treatment provided.
*    CBR   California Bearing Ratio.


﻿- 23 -
ANNEX II TO SCHEDULE 2
List of Rural Road Sections
I.   Sections to be Improved under Part A (1) of the Project
Improvement
Province             Road Number            Approximate Length (km)
Le Kef                   101                         29.2
103                        11.2
104                        17.0
106-7-8                      29.4
109                        13.5
110                         6.5
Siliana                  201                         13.7
202                        38.0
203                        74.0
Kairouan                 401                         i6.2
402                        11.6
404                        37.4
405                        20.7
406                        36.4
407                        16.6
408                        54.5
II. Proposed Sections under Par- A (2) of the Project
Improvement
Province             Road Number            Approximate Length (km)
Nabeul                   301                          9.3
302                         5.5
303                        12.6
304                         5.2
305                        10.4
306                         3.0
307                         4.5
308                        43.2
Kasserine                501                        25.2
502                        27.3
503                        45.2
504                        22.1
506                        32.1
507                        18.6


﻿- 24 -
Improvement
Province             Road Number            Apprcximate Length (km)
Sidi Bouzid              601                          8.3
602                        26.0
604                         9.7
606                         6.4
607                        16.6
651                        31.0
652                        31.8
655                        15.2
656                        11.6
657                         6.5
658                        27.5
659                        36.9
660                        18.1
661                        21.4
Gafsa                     701                         4.1
702                         9.4
703                         3.8
704                        10.0
705                         9.4
706                        29.0
Gabès                    801                          7.5
802                        42.0
803                         5.2
804                        45.5
806                         5.4


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1982
through   December 1, 1994                    1,230,000
On June 1, 1995                                    1,250,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purpcses of withdrawal.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.65%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.85%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                              6.60%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.50%


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereunder, goods and civil works
for Parts A and B of the Project shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   With respect to contracts for civil works included in Part A
of the Project:
(i) bidders shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines; and
(ii) for bidding purposes, construction work shall
be divided in lots. Lots shall be packaged in
groups whose respective estimated amount shall be
D2,500,000 or more, approxirately. Bids for all
lots in each group shall be called simultaneously.
Bidders may bid for one or several lots or a group
of lots, and contracts, each to be based on a
unit-price, shall be awarded, on the basis of the
lowest evaluated bid for any possible combination
of such lots within a group.


﻿- 28 -
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Tunisia and specified in Category (2) under the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tunisia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Tunisia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Tunisia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest


﻿29 -
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(i) Contracts for civil works included in the Investment
Projects under Part D (3) of the Project may be awarded
on the basis of local advertising in accordance with
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(ii) Machinery and equipment included in Part C and in the
Investment Projects under Part D (3) of the Project
may be procured by MA or its relevant departments or
agencies or the Sub-borrowers through local commercial
channels, after obtaining price quotations from not less
than three suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower through DPC shall,
before qualification is invited for works to be carried out under
Part A of the Project, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank


﻿- 30 -
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrow-
er's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts, under Parts A and B of the
Project, for (i) civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more, and (ii) equipment estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall. be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and pri, o the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application f        *ithdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such c itract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower and BNT, as may be appropriate, shall


﻿- 31 -
furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids and recommendations for award, if appropriate,
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 5
Lending Policies and Procedures
for Part D of the Project
A.   General
1.   BNT's technical staff shall:
(a) assist, as and when needed, proposed Sub-borrowers in
preparing Sub-loan applications;
(b) appraise all Sub-loan applications, taking into con-
sideration the technical feasibility, financial viability, com-
mercial soundness, economic justification, and in addition for the
Investment Project, availability of markets and inputs; and
(c) supervise all Sub-loans.
2.   For all Sub-loans under Part D (3) of the Project and for
Sub-loans to small and medium farmers under Part D (2) of the
Project, BNT's technical staff shall be assisted, in the perfor-
mance of its functions referred to in paragraph 1 above, by the
field staff of MPW and MA and any other relevant Borrower's
departments and agencies and any other entities involved in the
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
B.   Eligibility for Sub-loans under Part D of the Project
1.   Sub-loans shall only be made to Sub-borrowers located in a
zone of influence of a Rural Road (except for a Sub-borrower under
Part D (3) of the Project whose Investment Project may be located
elsewhere so as to serve several zones of influence of Rural
Roads), and at a time appropriate vis-a-vis the improvement
of Rural Road sections.
2.   Sub-loans under Part D (1) and (2) of the Project shall
only be made to Sub-borrowers whose income is mainly provided by
their agricultural activities.
3.   Sub-loans under Part D (2) of the Project to small and medium
farmers shall be made on the basis of, inter alia:
(a) farm size;
(b) nature of the investment;


﻿- 33 -
(c) crop pattern; and
(d) level of annual income per farm family, not to exceed
D600 in 1976 prices.
4.   The aggregate amount of Sub-loans to small and medium farmers
under Part D (2) of the Project or of such sub-loans and any other
loans, the terms and conditions of which are similar to those of
Sub-loans to small and medium farmers under Part D (2) of the
Project, made to any one Sub-borrower shall not exceed D5,000.
5.   No payments out of the proceeds of Loan No. 1340-TUN shall
be made by BNT to finance any Sub-loan of more than D50,000 to a
commercial farmer under Part D (2) of the Project, unless such
Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank.
6.   No payments out of the proceeds of this Loan shall be made
by BNT to finance any Sub-loan of more than D100,000 for agro-
industrial facilities under Part D (3) of the Project, unless such
Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank.
7.   Any Sub-loan for workshops and workshop equipment or for
agro-industrial facilities, under Part D (3) of the Project, shall
be made in accordance with the investments included in the rele-
vant report already furnished to the Bank or to be furnished to
the Bank as set forth in Section 3.06 (b) (ii) of this Agreement,
unless otherwise agreed between the Bank, the Project Coordination
Committee and BNT.
C.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans under Part D (2) and (3)
of the Project
1.   Sub-loans under Part D (2) and (3) of the Project shall be
subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
(i)   Medium- and Long-term Credit to Small and Medium
Farmers under Part D (2) of the Project
Own
Contri- Interest
Type  of      Sub-loan Grant    butions   (% per  Term (Grace)
Investment        (%)     (%)      (%)    annum)       Year
Project      Not more Not more Not less Not less   Not more
1- Irrigation
(a) New wells     70       10      20     6            7 (2)
and pumps


﻿-34 -
Own
Contri- Interest
Type  of      Sub-loan  Grant    butions   (% per   Term (Grace)
Investment        (%)     (%)       (%)     annum)       Year
Project      Not more Not more Not less Not less     Not more
(b) New deep      50       40       10     6            20 (2)
wells
(c) Deepening     60       20       20     6            10 (2)
of wells*
2- Crop estab-
lishment
(a) Cactus        60       20       20     6 (0)*** 10-15 (5-8)
planting**
and tree
crop es-
tablish-
ment
(b) Medicago
introduction*
- Farms of 10   30       65         5     6            5
ha or less
- Farms of      30       50        20     6            5
more than
10 ha
3- Livestock
and pasture
improvement
(a) Seeds         50      30        20     6 (0)***      2 (1)
(b) Grazing       50      30        20     6 (0)***      5 (1)
(c) Cattle        65      15        20     6             5
(dairy
cows)
*    Type of Investment Project not included in Loan No. 1340-TUN.
**   To improve land already used as range.
*    During grace period.


﻿- 35 -
Own
Contri- Interest
Type of       Sub-loan Grant    butions   (% per   Term (Grace)
Investment        (%)     (%)      (%)     annum)      Year
Project      Not more Not more Not less Not less    Not more
(d) Buildings     65      15        20     6         5-15 (2)
and equip-
ment (sheds
for cows
and sheep)
(e) Sheep         65      15        20     6            3
4- Light agricul-    70      10        20     6         3-10 (2)
tural machinery
and equipment
(ii) Medium- and Long-term Credit to Commercial Farmers
under Part D (2) of the Project
Type  of                            Grace     Maximum Repayment
Investment           Interest        Period    Period after Grace
Project          (% per annum)      (Year)         (Year)
General farm             7             1-3             5-7
development
(iii)   Medium- and Long-term Credit under Part D (3) of the
Project
Own
Contri-    Interest
Type of       Sub-loan     butions     (% per    Term (Grace)
Investment        (%)         (%)       annum)       Year
Project      Not more    Not less    Not less    Not more
1- Workshops         70          30          6       to be agreed
and workshop                                     on a case-by-
equipment for                                    case basis
Societe
Nationale de
Motoculture
and service
cooperatives


﻿- 36 -
Own
Contri-    Interest
Type of       Sub-loan     butions     (% per    Term (Grace)
Investment        (%)         (%)       annum)        Year
Project      Not more    Not less    Not less     Not more
2- Agricultural      70          30          6       3-7 (2)
machinery and
equipment for
service co-
operatives
3- Agro-industrial   70          30          8       to be agreed
facilities in-                                    on a case-by-
cluding, inter                                    case basis
alia, facili-
ties for grain
storage and
milk collection
2.   A grant shall not be given in the case of Investment Projects,
listed in sub-paragraph (i) above, consisting of the rehabili-
tation of existing investments which have already been amortized.
3.   Risk.
(a) BNT shall bear the full risk of default on all Sub-loans
to commercial farmers under Part D (2) of the Project, referred to
in sub-paragraph (ii) above, and all Sub-loans for agro-industrial
facilities under Part D (3) of the Project, referred to in sub-
paragraph (iii) above;
(b) With respect to Sub-loans to small and medium farmers
under Part D (2) of the Project, partially financed out of the
proceeds of Loan No. 1340-TUN, and referred to in sub-paragraph
(i) above, BNT shall bear at least 10% of the risk of default on
any of such Sub-loans, made not later than two years after the
Effective Date (July 19, 1977) of Loan No. 1340-TUN and at least
25% of such risk on any of such Sub-loans made thereafter. The
Borrower shall pay, at intervals of twelve months, to BNT, no more
than 90% of amounts overdue by two years or more to BNT on account
of such Sub-loans made not later than two years after the Effective
Date (July 19, 1977) of Loan No. 1340-TUN and no more than 75% of
such amounts on account of such Sub-loans made after such date.


﻿- 37 -
(c) With respect to Sub-loans under Part D (3) of the
Project, referred to in sub-paragraph (iii) above (other than
Sub-loans for agro-industrial facilities), BNT shall bear at least
10% of the risk of default on any of such Sub-loans, made not
later than two years after the Effective Date of this Loan and at
least 25% of such risk on any of such Sub-loans made thereafter.
The Borrower shall pay, at intervals of twelve months to BNT, no
more than 90% of amounts overdue by two years or more to BNT on
account of such Sub-loans made not later than two years after the
Effective Date of this Loan and no more than 75% of such amounts
on account of such Sub-loans made after such date.
D.   Security Arrangements
A certificat de possession shall be accepted as adequate
title for purposes of creating a lien on the land subject of such
certificat as security for the repayment of a Sub-loan.
For purposes of this paragraph "certificat de possession"
means the certificate described in Law No. 74-53 of the Borrower,
dated June 10, 1974.


﻿- 38 -
SCHEDULE 6
Project Administration
1.   The MPW shall be responsible for the overall supervision
of the Project in cooperation with the Project Coordination
Committee (the Committee) which shall coordinate all Project
activities and review the implementation of the Project.
2.   The Committee shall be chaired by a senior official of
MPW and shall further include, inter alios, senior officials
from the Ministry of Planning, DPC, DPA, DPAEP, the Ministry
of Interior and BNT. In the performance of its functions, the
Committee shall be assisted by qualified supporting staff.
3.   The Committee shall meet as required, but at least once every
three months. Representatives from the Borrower's departments and
agencies and any other entities involved in the carrying out of
the Project or any part thereof may be invited to attend any
meeting.
4.   Amongst its functions, the Committee shall, in cooperation
with MPW, and directly or with the assistance of the Borrower's
departments and agencies and any other entities involved in the
carrying out of the Project:
(a) ensure the proper and timely planning and implementation
of all Project activities;
(b) promptly enter into the arrangements referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(c) review and furi-"sh to the Bank the reports and documents
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(d) review quarterly progress reports to be prepared by the
provincial field divisions of MPW and CRDAs with respect to their
relevant Project activities, consolidate said reports into a
single report and furnish the consolidated report to the Bank;
(e) coordinate the preparation of annual operating plans
to be prepared by the Borrower's departmrnts and agencies and
other entities involved in the carrying out of the Project with
respect to their relevant Project activities planned for the
following calendar year together with estimated expenditures


﻿- 39 -
related thereto; review the said plans, approve them and once
approved, furnish them to the Bank;
(f) ensure that bidding documents are prepared, bids are
evaluated and contracts for civil works and equipment are awarded,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in compliance with
procurement procedures set forth in this Agreement;
(g) ensure that accounts and records are maintained and made
available or furnished to the Bank in accordance with Section 4.02
of this Agreement; and
(h) act as liaison between the Bank and the Borrower's
departments and agencies and any other entity involved in the
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.


