                                                                                48850


                         DATA SHEET FOR PROJECT PAPER

                                 GABONESE REPUBLIC

         LOCAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PDIL)
                                        (P082812)

Date: May 19,2009                             Task Team Leader: Chantal Reliquet
Country: Gabonese Republic                    Sector Manager: Eustache Ouayoro
Project Name: Local Infrastructure            Country Director: Mary Barton-Dock
Development Project                           Environmental category: B
Project ID: PO82812
Borrower: Ministry for Development, Public Performance, Prospective and Statistics
Responsible agency: Permanent Secretariat (TIPPEE), Ministry for Development, Public
Performance, Prospective and Statistics
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)


Annual               0.06          2.14           1.SO           11.OO         10.00
Cumulative           0.06          2.20           4.00           15.00        25.00
Current closing date: December 31,2011
Revised closing date: Not applicable
Indicate if the restructuring is:

Board approved          X
RVP approved            -

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies? -   Yes X IVo
Have these been approved by Bank management?                           -   Yes -No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?            -   Yes -No
Revised project development objective1outcomes:

The wording of the PDO stated in the Loan Agreement (LA) is revised to further align it
to the presentation of the PDO in the PAD, namely: "increased access of the population
living in low-income settlements to basic services, and sustained access of small- and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to civil work and construction contracts with thepublic
sector ".

Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No.
                           Financing Plan (US$m.) (Unchanged)
                    Source                       Local     I   Foreign    I   Total
Borrower
IBRDIIDA
Total


                                  GABONESE REPUBLIC

        LOCAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PDIL)
                                         (POS2812)

                                    LOAN IBRD 7373-GA

                                     PROJECT PAPER

INTRODUCTION

1.     This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce the
following changes in the Gabon Local Infrastructure Development Project (PDIL)
(Loan 7373-GA) and any accompanying amendments to the Project's legal documents.

2.     While there is no change in the substance of the Project Development Objective
(PDO), it is proposed to revise the wording of the PDO stated in the Loan Agreement
(LA) to further align it to the presentation of the PDO in the PAD, namely: "increased
access of thepopulation living in low-income settlements to basic services, and sustained
access of small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to civil work and construction
contracts with the public sector". The PAD wording of the PDO is more streamlined in
terms of (i) the population targeted by the Project and (ii) the exact objective of the
support provided to SMEs through the Project.

3.     In addition to this change, Project restructuring is needed because of the lack of
tangible results on the ground and the fairly low level of disbursements (about 20%) after
almost two years of project effectiveness. The Project was approved by the Board of
Directors on March 14, 2006, for a loan amount of US$25 million. The purpose of the
proposed restructuring is to (i) focus on the Project activities that are critical to achieve
the PDO by increasing their allocations to compensate for cost escalation; and (ii) reduce
the scope of activities related to Part C of the Project (Development of local SMEs in the
construction industry). The restructuring will involve: (i) streamlining a number of
Project activities; (ii) reallocating among project components; and (iii) simplifying some
of the output indicators for added practicality and easier monitoring.

4.     As a result of the proposed restructuring, it is expected that the project
development objective will be achieved and the implementation and monitoring of the
Project will improve. The expected outcomes of the Project remain unchanged.

BACKGROUND AND REASONS FOR RESTRUCTURING

5.     The Project was designed on the basis of the results and conclusions of a
successful Learning an Innovation Loan (LIL)       - Gabon Pilot Infrastructure Works and
Capacity Building Project (PROTOTIPPEE) (Loan 4387-GA), which closed in FYOO.
This earlier pilot project was designed to: (i) improve living conditions in selected poor
urban neighborhoods in a sustainable way and with substantial community participation;
and (ii) build local capacity to undertake a larger program of community-based public

works. Despite its small size, PROTOTIPPEE was perceived as the most concrete and
practical way to address poverty alleviation in Gabon. It contributed to the definition of
appropriate approaches for community-based upgrading of low-income settlements,
improved access to services as well as sanitation and drainage, and encouraged the
development of local SMEs, through awarding of works after open competitive bidding
and without noticeable cost overruns. It also strengthened the ability of municipalities to
coordinate these types of works.

6.      The Project built on these lessons to (i) further improve access to services in the
low-income settlements; and (ii) support the sustainable development of SMEs. The
Project includes five components:

    (i)       Community-based infrastructure in low-income settlements, designed to
              increase physical access to basic urban services.           Activities include
              infrastructure works (mainly road and drainage) in addition to implementation
              of micro-projects, in collaboration with the local communities, preparation
              and management of neighborhood development plans, and efforts toward
              facilitating land security;


    (ii)      Capacity building, targeted to officials from the municipalities covered by the
              project', as well as various ministries, and the beneficiary communities.
              Activities include training, technical assistance, and limited contribution to
              equipment and operating costs;


    (iii)     Development of local SMEs in the construction industry, through better
              management of public procurement and improved financial conditions. This
              component supports the development of a public investment program to be
              implemented by local SMEs within the overall program of line ministries such
              as the ministries of health and education. To this effect, specific operations
              (e.g., construction of classrooms and health centers) must be identified in the
              national budget. The component also includes capacity building and the
              preparation of a study to improve SMEs' access to financing;


    (iv)      Support to the reform of public infrastructure management, designed to
              strengthen the country's administrative and technical capacities in carrying
              transparent and efficient procurement of public works.        Activities cover
              project coordination, support to improving the management of public
              contracts, and the preparation of a professional code of ethics in the
              construction industry; and


    (v)       Support to HIV/AIDS prevention programs in the five cities targeted by the
              Project.

7.      With regard to institutional arrangements, the Project is implemented within the
framework of the "TIPPEE" Program (Programme de travaux dJinte'r&tpublic pour la

I Libreville, Port-Gentil, Franceville, Lambarend, Oyem, and Mouila.

promotion de 1'entreprenariat et de 1'emploi) designed to promote the development of
local SMEs by facilitating their access to small public infrastructure projects. The
Program is headed by a National Commission (CN-TIPPEE), reporting to an Inter-
ministerial Steering Committee. Daily management and coordination of both the TIPPEE
Program and the Project are handled by a Permanent Secretariat (PS). A late start-up of
the National Commission, coupled with fairly weak management on the part of the Head
of the Permanent Secretariat, was one of the reasons of the implementation delays.

8.      The Project became effective on March 8, 2007, a year after Board approval
because of the Borrower's belated initial deposit of counterpart funds.                Loan
disbursements did not materialize till mid-2007 because of delays encountered by the
Government of Gabon in settling outstanding special accounts of previous Bank-financed
projects.    This also contributed to a slow start of activities.       At this stage, all
infrastructure works are behind schedule as well as the implementation of micro-projects
and the capacity building program. Significant price increases in the cost of construction
materials that have occurred recently in Gabon (over 50% between the time of project
appraisal and contract negotiations) are having an impact on the scope of the project and
as a result, the number of activities will have to be reduced. This situation will require a
re-allocation of resources in order to remain within the overall approved project funding.

9.      Project restructuring does not involve any change in terms of (i) financial
management; nor of (ii) management of safeguards. A part-time environmental/social
specialist will be recruited by the PS to oversee the safeguard aspects. Close supervision
will be provided by the Bank environmental specialist, who will perform a minimum of
two missions per year, in order to review compliance with safeguards and make sure that
recommendations are properly implemented. Although procurement has improved lately,
contract management is still an issue. It is expected that this will improve since the
Deputy Permanent Secretary (recently appointed) will oversee all aspects of contract
management. Financial management (FM) rating is Moderately Satisfactory. Despite
inconsistencies in the IFR, monitoring reports are now being produced on a regular basis
and the 2007 audit report indicates that there are no major FM issues. All audits are
current for the project. The Bank's procurement and financial management specialists
are following up closely on these two aspects.

10.     To address the issue of weak management, the Gabonese authorities have
appointed a Deputy Head of the Permanent Secretariat (DPS) to the PS since March 9,
2009. The need for this appointment, originally included in the institutional set-up, had
been underlined repeatedly by the Bank. As mentioned in paragraph 7 above, the PS is
responsible for managing daily activities of the Project as well as the overall TIPPEE
Program. Management of the Program ranges from program promotion, communication
and networking, identification and preparation of future projects, fund raising, etc., while
management of the Project is strictly devoted to implementation of activities of the PDIL.
The Head of the Permanent Secretariat proved unable to efficiently handle the project
management function.         To remedy the situation, the newly appointed DPS,
PROTOTIPPEE7s former technical director, fully experienced with the Project
procedures and knowledgeable about the local context, will be in charge of project

management exclusively. This recruitment will have an immediate positive impact on
Project implementation. The Bank team will hold regular conferences with the PS and
ensure compliance with the agreed action plan. Technical missions will also take place
                                                                                                           '

regularly to monitor progress on works implementation.

PROPOSED CHANGES

11.      The proposed restructuring is based on the following rationale: (i) strengthen the
focus of the project on the component targeting community-based infrastructure
upgrading in low-income settlements, which are critical to achieve the PDO; and (ii)
reduce the number and complexity of output indicators for easier monitoring. The
proposed changes are as follows:

Components


(i)      Part A. Community-based infrastructure upgrading in low income settlements

The proposal is to increase the total cost (including counterpart funds) of the component
allocation from Euro 17.96 million to Euro 19.79 million (about lo%), in order to meet
the output indicators as they were established at appraisal, while taking into account the
significant price increases. All programmed and on-going works were reviewed in detail
during the restructuring mission. A number of corrective measures were agreed upon2in
order to speed up project implementation so that the rate of completion would reach 30%
by end June 2009, and 50% by end December 2009. This includes infrastructure works
as well as micro-projects.           The sub-component designed to enhance land security
(preparation of a management plan clarifying public rights of way and private
occupations as well as a feasibility study to streamline procedures to register public and
private land) is no longer part of the Project. This activity is policy oriented and is being
addressed by the relevant authorities (Cadastre, Ministry of Cities) which are working on
the issue of land security.

(ii)     Part B. Capacity building

The proposal is to decrease the total cost (including counterpart funds) of the component
allocation from Euro 587,500 to Euro 381,000. Component activities are being
streamlined to focus on the management of infrastructure upgrading operations and
maintenance. The program will target municipal agents, in priority.




   These include (i) more stringent procedures regarding the selection of SMEs competing for works (in
terms of fmancial capacity, key personnel, equipment, references, and existing work program); (ii) capacity
building to the benefit of contracting SMEs; (iii) direct payments to producers of materials; and (iv)
enhanced control and management. Contracts with defective enterprises have also been cancelled to the
benefit of a larger, more reliable company. In the case of Oyem, where construction of paved roads was
problematic because of the distance of the gravel quany, it was decided that construction would be earth-
road.

(iii)   Part C. Development of local SMEs in the construction industry

The proposal is to decrease the total cost (including counterpart funds) of the component
allocation from Euro 5.50 million to Euro 3.53 million. The reduced program will focus
on projects identified in the national budget, as part of the public investment program of
the ministries of health and education. The sub-component designed to improve the
financial environment of local companies (identification of appropriate financing
mechanisms and adequate financial guarantees to facilitate bid submission) is no longer
part of the Project. This activity is not critical to the success of project implementation
and is now part of a larger program to enhance the role of SMEs in Gabon, with the
support of other donors (EU in particular).


(iv)    Part D. Support to the reform ofpublic infrastructure management

The proposal is to increase the total cost (including counterpart funds) of the component
allocation from Euro 962,000 to Euro 1,235,000, to strengthen support to the TIPPEE-
Program and Project. The sub-components aimed at improving the management of
public infrastructure contracts (public infrastructure review and preparation of legislation
on the delegation of public management contracts, as well as the preparation of a
professional Code of Ethics in the construction industry) are no longer part of the Project.
These activities are mainly policy oriented and are not considered to be essential to
effective project implementation: (i) the preparation of a new legislation on delegation of
management contracts is fairly complex and requires extensive collaboration among a
number of public and private entities (it will be handled at a higher level of responsibility
within Government and the Permanent Secretariat will be consulted but will no longer
carry prime responsibility); (ii) the preparation of the Code of Ethics will also be
discussed at a higher level involving line ministries such as the Ministry of Equipment;
the Permanent Secretariat will be consulted but will not be responsible for this activity.


(v)     Part E. Support to HIV/AIDSprevention programs

The proposal is to decrease the total cost (including counterpart funds) of the component
allocation from Euro 625,000 to Euro 114,330.This reduction of the amount budgeted for
the Component is made at the Government request because of its preference for national
prevention programs that are already taking place in the country and are run by sector
professionals. Assistance provided under the project will continue to focus on raising
awareness and communication with communities directly impacted by the project and
with contractors and their staff. These activities will take place on all project sites.
Activities no more covered by the project will be integrated in national HIVIAIDS
prevention programs; hence, no negative social impact is expected out of the reduced
project allocation.

12.     As a result, the loan proceeds would be reallocated as follows:

        Increase Category 1 for Part A of the Project (works, goods, and consultant
        services) from Euro 14,300,000to Euro 15,886,000.

         Decrease Category 2 for Part B of the Project (works, goods and consultant
         services) from Euro 470,000 to Euro 305,000.
         Decrease Category 3 (a) for Part C of the Project (works) from Euro 1,800,000to
         Euro 1,341,000.
         Decrease Category 3 (b) for Part C of the Project (goods and consultant services)
         fLom Euro 800,000 to Euro 140,500.
         Increase Category 4 for Part D of the Project (works, goods, and consultant
         services) from Euro 770,000 to Euro 988,000.
         Decrease Category 5 for Part E of the Project (works, goods, and consultant
         services) from Euro 500,000 to Euro 91,000.

    (The percentage of expenditures financed from the loan is 80% on all categories,
    except Category 3 (a), where it is 40%).

13.      The table below shows the initial and proposed allocations and amount disbursed
to date on each category:


                                                   Initial Allocation Amount disbursed   Proposed Allocation
                   Categories                          (in Euro)      as of 04/15/2009       (in Euro)


1. Works, goods and consultant services for Part A
of the Project                                             14,300,000          1,883,335          15,886,000
2. Works, goods and consultant services for Part B
of the Project                                                470,000                  0             305,000
3.a Works, goods and consultant services for Part C
of the Project                                              1,800,000                  0            1,341,000

3.b Goods and services for Part C of the Project              800,000                  0              140,500
4. Works, goods and consultant services for Part D
of the Project                                                770,000           388,130              988,000
5. Works, goods and consultant services for Part E
of the Project                                                500,000             53,910              91,000
6. Refunding of PPF                                           600,000           428,821              600,000
7. Fee                                                         48,500             48,500              48,500
8. Unallocated                                                111,500                                       0
Designated Account - C                                                            61,524
Designated Account - D                                                          876,551
TOTAL                                                      19,400,000          3,740,772          19,400,000


14.      The loan proceeds for the other Categories - Refunding or Project Preparation
Advance (Euro 600,000) and Fee (Euro 48,500) - are unchanged. There are no more
unallocated funds.

Indicators

15.      The monitoring indicators are unchanged. It is proposed to adjust the output
indicators as follows:


    (i)       length of roadway passable by standard vehicles in all seasons (unchanged).

    (ii)      additional length of rainwater drainage; this new indicator replaces the
              average frequency of floods in targeted areas (number of days), which was too
              difficult to measure.
    (iii)     number of micro-projects implemented (this indicator, simple to measure, will
             measure progress in implementation and the level of involvement of the
              communities).
    (iv)      number of municipal technical units createdlstrengthened through the Project
              (unchanged).
    (v)      percentage of works implemented within specified timeframe (unchanged).
    (vi)      HIVIAIDS prevention programs connected to the project (unchanged).

16.      Two output indicators have been deleted: (i) the amounts of collected solid waste,
difficult to measure and not directly connected to the project activities; and (ii) the
number of engineering firms or independent engineers trained and strengthened in the
design/supervision/control of TIPPEE works, not meaningful in assessing the success of
the project.



                               MONITORINGINDICATORS

                                                    Target Values
                            Baseline  Year 1     Year 2    Year 3     Year 4     Year 5
  Additional population
  benefiting from all-year   1,000     3,000     10,000     30,000    60,000     75,000
  access to transport and
  service vehicles

  Additional population
  benefiting from             500      1,000     7,000      20,000    50,000     70,000
  improved sanitary
  conditions

  Amount of works
  contracted through           0         3         7.5       9.9       12.5       15.8
  TIPPEE methods ,
  (billion FCFA)

                                  OUTPUT INDICATORS



 Length of roadway
 passable by standard       6,000       6,000     6,000     8,500       13,000     15,500
 vehicles in all seasons
 (meters)
 Additional length of       5,000       5,000     5,000     8,827       14,873     15,911
 rainwater drainage
 Municipal technical          2           2         3         4           5          6
 units createdl
 strengthened
 Number of micro-             0           0        70        150         230        250
 projects implemented
 Works implemented
 within specified            NA         NA         NA       60%         70%         80%
 timeframe (allowance of
 10% beyond expected
 time)
 HIVIAIDS prevention
 programs connected to        0           0         1         3           5          6
 the project (lper city)




ANALYSIS AND EXPECTED OUTCOMES

17.      The proposed changes do not bear any major effect on the original economic,
financial, technical, institutional, or social aspects of the Project as appraised. The
proposed restructuring intends to further focus and streamline the activities under the
Project to better achieve the PDO. The proposed changes do not raise the environmental
category of the Project nor trigger new safeguard policies. The restructuring does not
involve any exceptions to Bank policies.

18.      The monitoring indicators are not modified; only the output indicators are
simplified. In substance, the PDO is more likely to be reached through a more focused
project that is easier to implement.

19.      Procurement arrangements remain the same as for the original project and will be
carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" dated May 2004, revised October 2006 and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, revised
October 2006, and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement".

BENEFITS AND RISKS

20.      The risks identified at appraisal remain the same. The risk to project development
objective   -  the lack of priority of the TIPPEE Program in Government policy       -  was
estimated as modest. It has been raised to substantial. However, the Government of

Gabon's request to restructure the Project and the appointment of a Deputy Permanent
Secretary to the Permanent Secretariat are recent indications of a stronger commitment.
In addition, assurances were provided by the new Minister of Development, Public
Performance, Prospective, and Statistics, also Governor for IBRD, that he would closely
follow the project to ensure improved implementation.

21.      The risks to component results, as identified at appraisal, remain the same. These
include:


    (i)    lack of local government capacity to effectively contribute to implementation
           and maintenance of investments (substantial); added focus on capacity
           building of local governments ispart of the restructuration.
    (ii)   lack of experience of line ministries with TIPPEE methods can slow down
           operations (substantial); the component is streamed-down.
    (iii)  SMEs do not receive timely payment for their services because of delays in
           Government's     contribution to the project (modest) -            this problem
           (Government counterpart contribution) has now been solved.
    (iv)   technical weaknesses of local SMEs may slow down project implementation
           (substantial) - this has indeed been the case but stricter criteria have been
           introducedfor selecting SMEs.
    (v)    absorptive capacity of the local private sector to carry out works included in
           the project (modest) - this risk did materialize. Stringent selection criteria of
           SMEs and closer supervision of theirperformances will mitigate this risk.

    No additional risks have been identified at this stage.

