                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                         Report No: 27701-LSO

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (IDA-31920 PPFI-Q1510)

                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 21 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                            KINGDOM OF LESOTHO

                                     FOR

           A SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PHASE I)




                                 April 29, 2004




Human Development 1
Country Department 1
Africa Region

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective February 18, 1999)

                      Currency Unit = Lesotho Maloti
                             L6.095 = US$ 1.0
                        US$ 0.1641 = L1.0

                            FISCAL YEAR
                        April 1 -   March 31


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
DCA                    Development Credit Agreement
DTEP                   Distance Teacher Education Program
ECCD                   Early Childhood Care & Development
ECOL                   Examinations Council of Lesotho
EFA                    Education for All
EMIS                   Education Management Information System
ESDP                   Education Sector Development Project
EPU                    Education Planning Unit
FPE                    Free Primary Education
GIS                    Geographical Information System
GOL                    Government of Lesotho
LCE                    Lesotho College of Education
MOET                   Ministry of Education and Training
MOF                    Ministry of Finance
MTEF                   Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NCDC                   National Curriculum Development Center
NER                    Net Enrollment Ratio
NFE                    Non-Formal Education
NTTC                   National Teacher Training College
NGO                    Non-Government Organization
PER                    Public Expenditure Review
PCSU                   Projects Coordination and Support Unit
PSLE                   Primary School Leaving Examination
QAG                    Quality Assurance Group
QER                    Quality Enhancement Review
SQA                    Scottish Qualifications Authority
TVD                    Technical and Vocational Department
TVET                   Technical and Vocational Education and Training
UPE                    Universal Primary Education

                     Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
                  Country Director      Fayez S. Omar
                   Sector Manager       Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
    Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Xiaoyan Liang

                                          LESOTHO
      SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PHASE I)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            34

Project ID: P056416                                                  Project Name: Second Education Sector Development
Team Leader: Xiaoyan Liang                                           TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Education Sector Development                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-31920; PPFI-Q1510
   Country/Department: LESOTHO                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: secondary education: 15%, primary education: 76%, vocational
                            training: 5%, pre-primary education: 2%, adult literacy/non-formal
                            education: 2%
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Social risk reduction (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (P); HIV/AIDS (S); Social analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/08/1998                                     Effective: 09/30/1999                09/30/1999
     Appraisal: 10/07/1998                                         MTR: 02/15/2001                  11/05/2001
      Approval: 04/15/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          KINGDOM OF LESOTHO/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Fayez S. Omar                                  Pamela Cox
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Ruth Kagia
Team Leader at ICR:             Xiaoyan Liang                                  Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
ICR Primary Author:             HongyuYang


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

The project was assessed by QAG in FY99 during the Third Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA3). The overall
assessment quality was Satisfactory. Among the 8 quality dimensions, two dimensions, Project Concept and
Objectives, and Poverty and Social aspects, were rated Highly Satisfactory, the rest Satisfactory.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project is the first phase of a three-phase program of the Second Education Sector Development
Project (ESDP II), approved by the Board on April 15, 1999. The objective of the 12-year program is to
assist the Government of Lesotho (GOL) in achieving its goal of universal primary education (UPE) to
produce more and better educated Basotho, who will become actively employed regionally or locally, and
participate in community leadership roles. As identified by the GOL, the adaptable program loan (APL)
focuses on four priority areas: (i) early childhood care and development (ECCD), (ii) primary and
secondary education, (iii) technical and vocational education and training (TVET), and (iv) Non-Formal
Education (NFE).

The specific objective of Phase I (1999-2003) was to assist the GOL in its efforts to: (i) increase the access
and equity, and improve the quality of primary and secondary education in order to lay the foundation for
achieving universal primary education, and (ii) support the Government to develop the policy and
institutional framework for early childhood education, technical and vocational education, and non-formal
education.

Phase I was supported by an IDA Credit of SDR15 million, equivalent to US$21.0 million at 1999
exchange rates. The Credit closed on December 31, 2003, after a twelve-month extension.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective was not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

The ESDP II Phase I had four major components with a total cost of US$26.7 million (Table 1).

                 Table 1: Appraisal Estimated Total Costs (US$ million)

 Component                                         Total Project Cost      IDA         GOL        Ratings
 1. Early Childhood & Care Development                       0.4              0.4                      S
2. Primary & Secondary Education                            24.4              18.7        5.7           S
3. Technical & Vocational Ed. Training                       1.0              1.0                      U
4. Non-Formal Education                                      0.4              0.4                       S
5. Unidentified Studies/TA                                   0.5              0.5                       S
 Total/Overall                                              26.7              21          5.7          S
S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory


Component I ­ Early Childhood and Care Development Program (US$0.4 million equivalent or 1.5%
of total project cost with contingencies). It aimed to increase coverage and improve quality for ECCD
programs by: (i) developing policy operations to define roles for GOL and non-governmental providers in
the ECCD sub-sector; and establishing a national monitoring and evaluation framework for ECCD
programs; (ii) designing an age-appropriate curriculum for ECCD, which will also strengthen linkages to
the primary school curriculum; (iii) developing an upgraded and expanded training program for ECCD
trainers and teachers, and (iv) designing and implementing a pilot of home-based (HB) care schemes aimed
at providing ECCD services in the most cost-effective manner in two selected remote and less accessible



                                                     - 2 -

areas in Lesotho.

Component II - Primary and Secondary Education (US$24.4 million equivalent or 91.4% of total
project cost with contingencies) was structured into six sub-components:

A.       Curriculum and Assessment
B.       Teacher Development and Support
C.       Physical Construction
D.       School-level Management
E.       Targeted Equity-Based Program
F.       Capacity Building in Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation

Component III ­ Technical and Vocational Education and Training (US$1 million equivalent or 3.75%
of total project cost with contingencies). It aimed to improve the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the
TVET system in order to better train Basotho to compete locally and in regional niches and to ensure that
graduates have the skills mix demanded by the national economy. During Phase I the project focused on
developing the policy and institutional framework for a revitalized and demand-driven system in the TVET
sector.

Component IV ­ Non-Formal Education (US$0.4 million equivalent or 1.5% of total project cost with
contingencies). It focused on (a) defining policies and priorities for the Non-formal Education (NFE),
which would support investment decisions for Phase II; (b) outlining a means for financing and sustaining
NFE with a combination of public and private resources; and (c) enhancing institutional capacity by
providing training for NFE and the Ministry of Education and Training (MOET) staff in planning,
programming, regulating and monitoring.

In terms of project design, the objectives of the four major components were in line with the Project
Objectives set out above, and with the GOL's priorities of poverty reduction through investing in human
resource development, specifically increasing access and improving quality in primary and secondary
education. These components also supported the need to enhance institutional capacity in management,
planning, monitoring and evaluation in the MOET.

3.4 Revised Components:

The Government requested an amendment to reallocate the "Unallocated" amount of SDR1,400,000 in
Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement to textbooks and materials. The allocation did not affect
activities in other components because it used basically the "Unallocated" resource and savings from other
components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The World Bank (WB) Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessed quality at entry for this project in FY99
(QEA3). The overall assessment quality was rated Satisfactory. Among the eight quality dimensions,
project concept and objectives, and poverty and social aspects, were rated Highly Satisfactory and the rest
were Satisfactory (Table 2). The ICR concurs with the QAG exercise of FY99 that the Quality at Entry
was satisfactory.




                                                      - 3 -

               Table 2: QAG Quality at Entry Assessment Ratings for ESDP II Phase I

             Rating Criteria                                                 Rating
Overall Rating                                                              Satisfactory
1: The Project/Operation's Concept, Objectives and Approach                 Highly Satisfactory
2: Technical and Economic Aspects                                           Satisfactory
3: Environmental Aspects                                                    Satisfactory
4: Poverty and Social Aspects                                               Highly Satisfactory
5. Financial Management Aspects                                             Satisfactory
6: Institutional Capacity Aspects                                           Satisfactory
7: Readiness for Implementation                                             Satisfactory
8: Risk Assessment and Sustainability                                       Satisfactory
9: Bank Inputs and Processes                                                Satisfactory

The ESDP II Phase I was clearly linked to and consistent with Lesotho's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), in which education, particular primary education, was given very high priority. The Development
Objective (DO) was clear and specific. The education sector knowledge and the Government's strategy in
education were considered to underpin the project design. The task team and the Government used lessons
of experiences well from the previous projects in Lesotho.

In the poverty and social aspects, the project design and implementation were consistent with the poverty
reduction strategy of the CAS (1998). It targeted the poor, especially the rural poor. Priority for primary
school construction was given to targeted districts on the basis of poverty and remoteness of location. The
design of the NFE component considered and ensured that herd boys were consulted and that appropriate
NFE systems were designed to provide them with education and economic opportunities.

On the financial aspect, the appraisal task team identified weaknesses in financial management systems and
personnel based on problems with implementation of the previous education project (ESDP I). Substantial
efforts were made by the project financial management specialist to develop appropriate solutions so that
the requirements of the Loan Accounting Change Initiative (LACI) and Operational Policy/Bank Procedure
(OP/BP) 10.2 could be met.

In terms of institutional capacity, the project was quite ambitious. The MOET had weak capacity.
Implementing the multi-level and various programs would require substantial efforts from the key players
and their incentives to exert this effort were not clear. On the other hand, distributing responsibilities to the
different components would inevitably strengthen the capacity at the school, community, district, and the
MOET levels.


Use of APL Lending Instrument Was Appropriate.

   l The use of the 12-year APL was appropriate in response to the Government's preference and on
        the basis of their diagnosis of the country's reform needs.

   l The APL with implementation of three phases provided the flexibility and time required to
        implement long-lasting reforms in Lesotho.

   l The reforms in the TVET, NFE, and ECCD sectors involve a shift in the role of the government




                                                      - 4 -

         from being a provider to being a regulator and supporter. It needs to build institutional capacity to
         carry out the reform. Therefore, it needs longer time and flexibility to make these changes happen.

   l Policy reforms are complex and in some cases require changing of behaviors and attitudes. They
         can take as long as ten years. Therefore, the APL is appropriate in this context.

   l The APL allows both the Ministry of Education and Ministry of Finance to plan and make
         long-term financial commitment to invest in education and eventually to achieve the national
         education goals set at the beginning of the 12-year program.

   l The APL helps avoiding drastic changes of long-term policy reform and strategy in education when
         the leadership changes in the sector. In the case of Lesotho, the Principal Secretary for Education
         changed three times during Phase I implementation. Because of the APL, the strategies were not
         changed. The financial commitment was maintained.

Design of the APL Triggers.

Phase I had six triggers used for moving to Phase II. Three of them were for policy reform and formulation
for the TVET, NFE and ECCD components. Specifically, they are "Technical and Vocational Education
Act in place by December 2000"; "A financial management and performance monitoring system for
TVET in place by June 2002"; and " NFE Act approved; operational guidelines issued and options
defined by December 2001". None of these three triggers were fulfilled. The ICR views that:

   l These policy triggers are rather ambitious in terms of timeframe set to achieve them. In the case of
         the TVET component, the trigger "Technical and Vocational Education Act in place by
         December 2000" was too ambitious. It was still not achieved by the end of project closing. Given
         the complexity of the reform, and the weak institutional and technical capacity in the TVET sector
         in the country, it was not surprising that the trigger was not fulfilled.

   l Some of these triggers are worded as if they were "dated covenants" in a legal agreement. The
         views taken here are that, for triggers, similarly to tranche release conditions in adjustment lending,
         the critical question is whether the quantitative objective has been achieved, or the action has been
         taken, even if later than the date mentionned.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The project has satisfactorily achieved its major objective to assist the Government in its efforts to improve
the performance and efficiency of its education sector by promoting equity, increasing access to education,
and improving the quality of primary and secondary education. The activities to achieve this objective were
mainly under Component II (Primary and Secondary Education), which consisted of in total 92% of the
project cost. However, the project was not successful in achieving the other objective of developing
policies and institutional framework, including TVET.

In spite of the delay or incompletion of development of polices and institutional framework, the ICR rated
the Outcome as Satisfactory. The justifications were:




                                                       - 5 -

    l The major outcome of the Project is its successful expansion of enrollment in primary education
         and maintaining of enrollment gain from FPE by ensuring basic education physical facility and
         minimum primary education quality. The Project has had a major impact on access to primary
         education and laid a foundation towards achieving GOL's Education for All (EFA) goal by 2011.
         The net enrollment ratio (NER) for primary education increased significantly from 64% in 1998 to
         85% in 2002 (Table 3). Orphans and disadvantaged children were major beneficiaries of the
         project through scholarship program. This is a very encouraging achievement for Lesotho, given
         the context of Africa, where many countries' NER is still under 50%. The success was largely due
         to the Government's efforts in introducing FPE, IDA and other donors' contribution.

    l Another major success of the Project is the improvement and maintenance of primary education
         quality, which was measured by pupil / teacher ratio, a proxy of quality indicator. The ratio was
         reduced from 47.9 in 2000 to 46 in 2002 even with the fast growing enrollment in primary
         education because of FPE. This project certainly contributed to these successes. It provided
         timely support in construction of more classrooms, training teachers, and strengthening school level
         management. It provided much-needed primary core textbooks and other teaching materials,
         science kits, stationery, and strengthened the overall institutional capacity of the education system,
         particularly at the community and school levels through training of management and advisory
         committees and secondary school boards.

    l The physical output targets under ECCD, primary and secondary education were met and in
         several cases exceeded. They showed improvement in school construction, supply of core
         textbooks for primary education, enrollment of children, distance training for teachers, training for
         primary School Advisory Committees, Management Committees and Secondary School Boards,
         scholarships for orphans and other disadvantaged children, and institutional capacity building in
         the MOET through preparing the Public Expenditure Review (PER) and the Medium Term
         Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and other training. The advocacy campaign on out-of-school
         children has had great impact on Education for All awareness for citizens in Lesotho. The
         commitment to achieving universal primary education was very high from the Government,
         MOET, public, teachers, communities, and parents to students. The high commitment
         demonstrated strong participation and growing ownership of the project.

    l The development of policy and institutional framework in TVET and NFE represents only 8% of
         the total project cost.

    l The development of policy involved broad consultations and coordination among stakeholders. In
         some cases it required changing of behavior and attitudes. and institutional capacity building.
         Therefore it required more time to achieve.

    l Phase II continues the effort in those areas, demonstrating high commitment from both the
         Government and the IDA.


                    Table 3. Lesotho ­ Primary Net Enrollment Ratio (NER), 1998-2002
                                                        1998            1999          2000         2001              2002
Enrollment of children ages 6-12                      218,195        206,133        279,772      281,634           284,162
Population of children ages 6-12                      342,000        338,000        339,000      336,000           334,000

NER computed from the above                             64%             61%           83%          84%               85%
Source: Enrollment data were from the Education Statistics 2002, Ministry of Education Lesotho. A WB consultant conducted
the population projection, based on detailed assumptions; this work was shared with the GOL Bureau of Statistics and with the
Ministry of Education.




                                                              - 6 -

Implementation of FPE.

The Free Primary Education policy was implemented in 2000 with a phased in approach. Starting from
2000, each year fees for one grade was abolished, until all the seven grades of the primary education cycle
are covered. Primary enrollment has increased by 12% from 2000 to 2003. The phased implementation of
FPE has bought time for forward planning, budgeting, and getting things in place on the supply side. From
a management point of view, it was more manageable for the Ministry of Education and allowed time to
mobilize financial resources. Had it been a "big bang" approach (abolishing fees for all primary grades
simultaneously), the Ministry would not have sufficient capacity nor financing. Under FPE, the Ministry
of Education committed itself to cover the following expanses: book rental fee, stationery, feeding and
maintenance. This project was able to support the implementation of FPE by complementing the
Government financing in constructing classrooms, providing core textbooks, stationery, science kits and
other teaching learning materials, training of school management and teachers.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component I: Early Childhood and Care Development Program

The achievement of objectives under Component I is rated Satisfactory. During the project period, ECCD
coverage in Lesotho increased from 36,079 pupils in year 1998 to 42,231 (about 30% of pre-school-age
children) in year 2002. The GOL's goal is to achieve 50% coverage by 2011. The specific outputs were
described below.

The policy paper and guidelines were developed based on broad consultations with ECCD stakeholders
(NGOs, private and public providers) in 2000. The framework provided very much needed regulations to
strengthen, consolidate and expand the ECCD services by addressing issues such as provision of good
quality program, service delivery, legislative machinery, guidelines on access and standards and supportive
organizational structures. In 2003, the policy was revised to incorporate the concept of "integrated
approach to programming" and it is now waiting for Government approval. The framework is entirely in
line with the Declaration on Education for All and its target goals, and supports the Government's efforts
to provide opportunities and facilities that enable each child develop physically, mentally, spiritually,
socially and emotionally in a free atmosphere and under healthy conditions.

As part of the strategy to standardize the curriculum and ensure quality of ECCD provision, the ECCD
Unit coordinated the development of the national curriculum for ECCD. The curriculum was published in
1998 and its Sesotho (local language) version produced in early 2001 and disseminated nationwide. Since
then, many ECCD centers have had the Sesotho version of the curriculum, which was essential for learning
and to ensure quality because some parents and most children do not understand English. The ECCD unit
is working with Lesotho College of Education to develop a training program on an ECCD Diploma of
pre-service and in-services.

Under the ECCD program, 32 National Teacher Trainers were trained. Ten of them were designated to the
ECCD District Offices. The remaining 22 trainers served as District Teacher Trainers. The program also
trained: (i) 100 Area Resource Teachers representing various groups of stakeholders, (ii) 1,970
teachers/facilitators for 1,578 ECCD centers, and (iii) the center committee members to enhance their
effectiveness in the running of centers. These activities have had an impact on the provision and quality of
ECCD programs in the country.




                                                      - 7 -

The pilot of home-based (HB) care was achieved successfully. The project piloted in four districts
(doubled the original plan of two). The HB care pilot was designed to increase ECCD coverage at a
low-cost. The caregivers and parents were volunteers, but the program offered them training. The
evaluation report of HB care shows that the program contributed to poverty alleviation in a number of
ways: (i) it was free in the sense that no fees were charged for children to enroll; and (ii) both caregivers
and parents received training in life skills that they could use to generate income for the HB care facilities,
for themselves and their families. The findings show the quality of HB care is as good as that of
center-based programs because they follow the same curriculum and facilitators. The HB care pilot
benefited 500 children, providing them with pre-reading, pre-writing, listening and handling skills. The
findings also show that they were able to adjust to the school environment better than their counterparts
without the ECCD experience. The evaluation found that participation of parents was key to the success of
the HB program. The experiences gained from the pilot will be valuable for scaling up the HB care
approach in Lesotho. Further evaluation under Phase II will include comparisons of costs between
center-based and HB care programs.

Component II: Primary and Secondary Education

The overall achievement of objectives under Component II is rated Satisfactory, with most inputs under the
six sub-components being reached and in some cases exceeded. The only output that was not completed at
the project closing was "development of policy for curriculum" due to the complexity of the task and
extensive consultations and coordination among stakeholders.

Component II had 91.4% of total project cost with contingencies and supported the following: (i) increase
access in primary education, (ii) improve equity in primary and secondary education, and (iii) improve
quality of primary and secondary education. Following are evaluations for the six sub-components for
Component II:

Sub-component A: Curriculum and Assessment. The achievement of this sub-component is rated
Satisfactory. The sub-component objective was to: (i) develop an integrated national framework for
curriculum and assessment for primary and secondary education, (ii) design and carry out a pilot national
assessment for a selected sample of Standard 3 and Standard 6 students in Math, English and Sesotho; and
(iii) upgrade the Examination Council of Lesotho (ECOL) and strengthen its capacity to enable it to carry
out its mandate and enforce national examinations and certification standards in an effective and efficient
manner.

Most activities in this sub-component were delayed mainly due to the lack of command authority over the
policy framework task force, and unclear roles and responsibilities between the National Curriculum
Development Center (NCDC) and ECOL for the pilot assessment, and lack of collaboration between the
two institutions at the early stage of the implementation. The situations were improved later and significant
progress was made after the project mid-term Review.

Integrated National Policy Framework for Curriculum and Assessment. The MOET formed a task force
to develop the policy. It consisted of members from NCDC, ECOL, National University of Lesotho
(NUL), Inspectorate, Headmasters, Principals, and NGOs. The task force undertook study tours to
Malawi, Botswana, and Namibia to gain experience in the development of education policies on curriculum
and assessment. Some useful observations and recommendations drawn from the reports of these study
tours were considered in formulating Lesotho's own policies. Several studies on key issues were conducted
by the task force and informed the directions of curriculum and assessment formation. The task of
developing a policy framework was complex and required extensive consultations, studies and coordination


                                                       - 8 -

among stakeholders. This project carried the task well in terms of consultation among stakeholders.
Consultation workshops were held during the formation of the policy with focus on learner-centered
approach and participatory learning. The new policy framework will emphasize the development of
competencies, skills and attitudes, clear curricular and achievement standards, student-centered learning,
and relevance to social issues and real life. Due to the delay mentioned earlier and the complexity of the
task, the consolidation of these policies into an integrated framework was not completed and has been
carried over to Phase II of the APL.

Baseline Pilot National Assessment. This was the first-ever-national assessment for a selected sample of
Standard 3 and Standard 6 students in Math, English and Sesotho. The pilot study covered the literacy and
numeracy areas of the curriculum. The study was conducted on a sample of one hundred primary schools
representing the ten Districts. The total pupils in the sample were 5,126. The results showed that while
Standard 3 and Standard 6 students seemed to do rather well in Sesotho, they had low achievement in both
English and Mathematics. The MOET and Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) recognized the
success of the first national assessment. National student assessment is being continued under Phase II and
will provide information on the trend of student achievement. The results from the first national assessment
in 2003 will be used as baseline data for monitoring the trend in student achievements. In addition, the
experience gained will be beneficial in future surveys.

The baseline pilot national assessment demonstrated that ECOL, in collaboration with NCDC, was capable
of mounting a nationwide and relatively complex pupil attainment survey, even under a very tight
timescale. It also provided evidence that the country can indeed count on the full cooperation of its schools
in such a venture: 100% of the selected schools participated in the survey, at very short notice. Through
this study, ECOL and NCDC staff learned from their failures and successes, and recognized some
weaknesses in the recruitment, training and supervision of data collectors, the scrutiny, completion and
processing of scanning sheets, and data analysis. Most of the problems could readily be attributed to the
seriously insufficient time available for planning and preparation, but a lack of appropriate resources, prior
experience, and expertise also played their part. To build capacity in assessment, Phase II is financing
ECOL staff to participate in series courses on national assessment.

Strengthen ECOL's Capacity. With the support of the project, ECOL established a twinning agreement
with Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA). The twinning agreement was structured to establish a
two-way flow of information. Under the contract, SQA assisted ECOL by supplying training, regular
visits, and support of the development of national assessment. Those activities strengthened ECOL's
professional capacity in developing and implementing valid and reliable national examinations. Preliminary
feedback, which was based on the outcomes of interviews of ECOL staff and key external stakeholders who
were involved in activities under the twinning agreement, showed that the twinning agreement had a
positive impact on ECOL. It enhanced ECOL's standing in the educational community and reflected
greater expertise and confidence of staff. In addition, it made ECOL more outward-looking and increased
collaboration and crystallized roles of individual staff and relationships between them.

The twinning agreement has been continued under Phase II of ESDP II. The future technical support will
ensure that ECOL is able to develop Lesotho's system of assessment in line with the country's needs and
international best practices. To maximize efficiency of increased responsibilities and demand on ECOL,
the project has procured examination management software for ECOL.

Sub-component B: Teacher Development and Support. The achievement of this sub-component is
rated Satisfactory. It aimed at formulation and implementation of a Distance Teacher Education Program
(DTEP) to (i) enhance the provision of in-service training and quality for primary teachers, and (ii) increase


                                                      - 9 -

the number of teachers entering the pre-service training program from 200 to 500 for each year.

In Lesotho 27% of the primary teachers were unqualified. The introduction of Free Primary Education
(FPE) in 2000 has aggravated the situation. Therefore, increasing provision and enhancing quality of
primary teachers were priorities for sustaining the expansion and quality of primary education in Lesotho.
After 18 months of intensive work by a task force made up of lecturers from the National Teacher Training
College (NTTC), the in-service teacher-training program was fully transformed into a viable distance
education program with 18 modules for the first-year students. The program was launched on the 18th of
January 2002. The students (in-service teachers) were highly motivated to pursue their studies. They were
supported by the distance education course materials and face-to-face sessions, which provided not only at
the college, but also at the District Resource Centers, Farmers Training Centers, Institute of Extra Mural
Studies, and Education Resource Centers nearest to where they live and work. Hence, most of them had
access and were not disadvantaged by long distance or remoteness from the major population centers. All
sites and centers had a tutor in charge that was a full-time member of NTTC staff dedicated to DTEP.
Since its inception, the DTEP had enrolled 750 students, which achieved the target set for Phase I.

Sub-component C: Physical Construction. The achievement of this sub-component is rated Highly
Satisfactory. The objective of this sub-component was to improve and expand primary school facilities
through: (i) construction of about 200 primary classrooms; (ii) rehabilitation of about 26 existing student
hostels at Lesotho College of Education (LCE) to expand its enrollment for primary school teachers; and
(iii) rehabilitation of two textbook warehouses which were burned during the civil unrest in September
1998.

The original target for construction of 32 new schools with 200 classrooms was exceeded. In reality, 56
schools with 392 classrooms were constructed in 9 districts (there are total 10 district in the country).
Seven of the 56 schools are located in the remote and inaccessible areas that can only be reached by foot,
mule or helicopter. These schools met the constant and growing demands in the poorest communities in
Lesotho. Together, these 392 classrooms can accommodate about 20,000 pupils, which have indeed helped
in easing overcrowded classrooms due to a significant increase in enrollment in primary education since the
FPE was introduced in 2000. The ICR mission visited some of the project schools and observed the high
appreciation expressed by the teachers, students and parents.

Renovation of 26 existing student hostels at LCE to accommodate 392 students was completed on
schedule. Construction of new offices and warehouse for textbooks was also completed as planned. In
addition to the original target, the Project constructed one Teacher Resource Center and repaired 10
District Resource Centers. These centers are in use and are helping teachers and district education offices
in their work.

It is important to mention that the construction work experienced delay at the beginning of implementation
due to the FPE policy. The school construction sites, including both Government's and churches', were
already selected and certified at the time FPE began. Based on the new GOL policy, donor-financed
projects only finance construction of Government-schools (not church schools). Because of this, school
construction sites had to be reselected. To expedite the process of identifying and certifying new sites, the
MOET and the Bank team outlined an action plan and adjusted the program that allowed construction of
schools to be undertaken in both accessible and inaccessible areas. The orchestrated efforts worked very
well. The projects not only completed the construction work on time, but also exceeded the target by
doubling the number of classrooms (target: 200; actual: 392). To better plan and select school sites, all
future school construction will be guided by school mapping that can better target the most disadvantaged
areas and avoid over-building in certain areas.


                                                      - 10 -

Sub-component D: School-level Management. The achievement of this sub-component is rated
Satisfactory. The objectives of this sub-component were to strengthen managerial capacity at the primary
and secondary school levels by: (i) establishment of school committees comprising representatives of school
operators, parents and teachers; (ii) fostering a wide dissemination of basic laws and regulations governing
school operations; and (iii) providing practical training to relevant school officials and school partners in
general and financial management topics so as to enhance their ability to interact efficiently within the
school committees.

All primary School Advisory Committees and Management Committees were established. About 100
training courses for School Committees were conducted during project implementation. About 10,000
participants (about 85% of the total committee members) from over 2,000 schools in the 10 districts
attended the training. Based on an independent evaluation report, a majority (90%) of the members
reported that their committees were functioning well. The formation of committees brought about great
cooperation among various stakeholders. Many of the members reported positively on the quality of the
course content, presentation and organization. The ICR mission was deeply moved, inspired and motivated
by the high commitment to education, involvement in school management, and strong sense of ownership of
schools shown by the School Advisory and Management Committees during the field visit.

While the assessment of the impact of training on skills was overwhelmingly positive, some uncertainties
remained. For example, the time allocated for training was not sufficient, particularly for such complex
issues as proper management practices on staff management and financial management. Another strong
indicator regarding the ability of theses committees to implement the skills learned was the literacy level of
some members. The general qualifications of parents fall within the primary level. On the other hand,
teachers and principals that participate in the committees are generally highly qualified. As a result, most
of the parents who were committee members did not understand Teaching Services Regulations and other
legal frameworks, and were therefore unable to effectively apply their teacher management functions. The
findings and recommendations of the evaluation will be considered during Phase II implementation. To
improve effectiveness of School Advisory Committees, further training is needed on staff management and
financial management. Further, the MOET needs to provide more on-site support to some committees.

Sub-component E: Targeted Equity-Based Program. The achievement of this sub-component is rated
Satisfactory. The objective of the sub-component was to design and implement a pilot bursary scheme that
could attract and encourage disadvantaged children from remote areas to enter the primary and secondary
education system. The bursary scheme was well publicized and had great public and political support.
Institutional capacity in this area was developed such as staffing in the MOET and the district education
offices, and establishment of a bank account at each school to ensure that funds for scholarships were
transferred to schools quickly and effectively. During Phase I, a total of 24,799 bursaries were awarded.
The children who benefited from the bursary scheme were orphans, servant girls, herd boys, street children,
abandoned children, children from needy families, children with disabilities, and children whose parents had
disabilities. The bursary scheme pays tuition fee, registration fee, book fee, examination fee, stationery fee,
special and practical fee and boarding fee. There is no doubt the bursary scheme had a positive impact on
keeping those disadvantaged children in schools. The ICR mission interviewed some of the beneficiaries.
They all deeply appreciated the program, valued the opportunity and studied hard. The school principals
and teachers told us that many of them were excellent students in their classes.

Though the bursary program made significant progress, there are still problems. Due to no prior
experience in this area in the MOET, the implementers and stakeholders basically had a "learning by



                                                     - 11 -

doing" experience. As a result the criteria tended to be vague including "orphans and other disadvantaged
children". So many people applied and eventually too many candidates qualified for bursaries and
available funds were usually not adequate to support all recommended candidates. Further, the process
was "ad hoc". Recognizing the need of improving the design and implementation of the bursary scheme,
the MOET is currently modifying the scheme to (i) tighten the criteria for selection; (ii) use forward
budgeting of bursary resources to determine every year how many bursaries will be carried over from the
previous year and how many new bursaries will be awarded; (iii) introduce a district-based bursary quota;
(iv) introduce maximum bursaries to be awarded; and (v) accelerate the disbursements of bursaries to
schools.

Under Phase II, the Bank will provide technical assistance in the bursary scheme and opportunities for the
MOET to learn about other experiences of the bursary scheme. An independent evaluation for the bursary
scheme has been planned in 2004.

Sub-component F: Capacity Building in Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. The achievement of
this sub-component is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The aims were: (i) carrying out public expenditure
reviews (PER) to provide a foundation for developing a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) to
be used as a planning tool for budget allocation, (ii) upgrading of the Education Management Information
System (EMIS); and (iii) enhancing the MOET staff and institutional capacity.

The PER, with technical support from the Bank team, was completed with high quality in early 2002. The
purpose of the PER was to generate a MTEF that could be applied in the budgets and help channel public
resources more effectively to agree upon long term education priorities. The MTEF working team
completed preparation of both the recurrent and capital budget by using the MTEF process by later 2002.
Through this process, the MOET was able to: (i) review and obtain ceilings for programs and
sub-programs which fit within the overall ministry budget ceilings, (ii) achieve adequate allocated weights
to suit strategic priority areas; (iii) develop budget recurrent (personal emoluments and other costs) and
capital costs, and (iv) draft supplementary note explaining the basis for determining the various ceilings
and concept of a three year budget cycle. The process of adoption, development and utilization of MTEF
had built some institutional capacity within the MOET in budget and planning. The MOET will update
PER and implement MTEF annually in order to increase efficiency in resources allocation and utilization,
and also integrate the process into the Ministry's budget planning process.

With financial support from donor agencies in the past several years, particularly under this project, EMIS
activities were established. Basic infrastructure, such as hardware, software, and database applications
were installed and developed; critical school-level data have been collected and continue to be collected
annually. Staff at the central and district levels were trained in data collection and processing. The
Ministry's capacity to process education statistics was enhanced through a contract with the Academy for
Education Development and training courses taken by the staff in the Education Planning Unit (EPU). The
quality of education data has improved compared with several years ago, but the production of the statistics
is not in a timely fashion. The EPU is responsible for producing Annul Education Statistics, which are not
published until June or later each year. To produce in time education statistics for planning and
policymaking purpose, the EPU needs to make efforts to publish Annual Education Statistics earlier.
Further, the EPU needs to have a strategy on how to use the data to inform policy-making and planning,
such as education indicators and policy statistical briefs. These areas will be the focus of EPU in Phase II.

With MOET staff training, one staff from the EPU was trained during the PER process through short
training courses and working with the WB staff in Washington DC. Basic capacity has been built in this
area, but it needs to be further strengthened to ensure that future annual updating on PER and preparing


                                                       - 12 -

MTEF exercise will be carried out smoothly without delay. In addition, over 70% of the staff received
training through workshops, study tours, short-term and long-term courses during Phase I. However, there
were problems associated with trained staff leave, particularly for those who received long-term training. It
has proven that short and well-targeted training programs are more effective in building the institutional
capacity of the MOET. Under Phase II, training programs for MOET staff will be closely monitored.

Component III ­ Technical and Vocational Education and Training

The overall achievement of objectives under Component III is rated Unsatisfactory. None of the objectives
were achieved under Phase I. Several factors contributed to the unsatisfactory performance of this
sub-component, including: (i) the weak capacity in the Technical and Vocational Department (TVD) in the
MOET, (ii) the lack of a TVET champion in the country, (iii) the lack of long-term technical assistance,
(iv) skills development is a national matter and priority for the country, but the reform lacked support and
trust from other TVET stakeholders such as the private sector, (v) the focus of MOET's attention on
primary education and secondary education especially since FPE, and (vi) difficult political issues that
confronted the policy reform. In addition to these, the design of the TVET component in Phase I might
have underestimated the difficulties and timeframe needed for the tasks. It is now widely recognized that
reforms in TVET are much more complex and can take longer than originally expected. The Bank team's
dialogue with the Ministry on TVET issues had also been compromised by a lack of technical expertise and
financial resources from the Bank in supervision.

Notwithstanding the difficulties mentioned above, the WB and GOL believed that it was necessary to
continue laying the foundation for TVET reform during Phase II. Recent evidence from the Bank's
"Growth and Employment Options Study for Lesotho" found positive returns to skills development. At the
same time, GOL has identified skills development as an important strategy for building the national
economy. Under Phase II, the Government will continue policy development and capacity building, and
introduce market-driven training.

Component IV ­ Non-Formal Education

The overall achievement of objectives under the Component IV is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
Enhancing institutional capacity in NFE, one of the three outputs under this sub-component, was achieved.
New NFE staffs were recruited in the MOET and the districts. NFE staff at the central and district levels
received training in planning, programming and monitoring. The training helped them pilot the Learner
Post Program. Phase I supported the Lesotho Distance Training Center to improve its delivery capacity of
Learning Posts through recruiting and placing Literacy Resource Teachers in the two piloting districts.
Stationery was provided for learners at the two piloting districts. A Basic English course and textbook for
Learning Posts were developed. Pre-testing and piloting of the Basic English course is now being carried
out in Phase II.

The other two outputs (developing policy for NFE, and outlining a means for financing and sustaining
NFE) under this sub-component were not achieved due to the following reasons. The policy framework
was drafted as early as 1999, but it did not have sufficient stakeholder consultations and inputs, lacked
priority and did not define a clear role of the MOET in financing and provision of NFE. Besides, the draft
policy called for a full-fledged NFE Department within the Ministry and for the Department to play a
significant role in the coordination and provision of NFE services. The Ministry was cautioned not to take
over services that are already being provided by NGOs and other private sector providers.




                                                    - 13 -

Because of priority changes in NFE as a result of FPE and the above-mentioned situations, the MOET
decided to discontinue the work. The introduction of FPE changed the priorities of NFE activities
identified at the project design. Prior to the introduction of FPE, non-formal education was identified as a
priority for the MOET to achieve its Education for All (EFA) goals. The potential beneficiaries of NFE
were numerous, including herd boys; youth who previously had dropped out of the formal school system
and were looking for a second chance; miners who had returned from South Africa; and other illiterate
adults. The introduction of FPE had successfully brought into the formal school system many of those
children who could not afford schooling before. It was clear that there was a need to re-orient non-formal
education from a predominantly literacy program for children who could not afford formal schooling to a
skills development program for adults who were beyond the age of formal schooling.

In this context, the support from ESDP II Phase I for NFE was largely confined to piloting the Learner
Post Program (LPP) in two removed districts ­ Berea and Thaba Tseka. The results of evaluation for this
program showed that the pilot interventions contributed to: (i) an increase in the number of learners in the
Learning Posts, (ii) reduced dropout rates, and (iii) an increase in the number of learners graduating from
the program. The evaluation report suggests that future intervention and expansion of LLP need to
increase financial resources and require a substantial institutional capacity building at the area/regional and
Learning Post levels.

Under Phase II, the MOET will continue the support for Learner Post pilots while broadening the focus of
the pilots to include more skills training modules.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

ICR Rating: Modest
The institutional development impact of this project is rated Modest. The project has built multiple levels
of capacity throughout the country.

At the central level, the initial PER and MTEF process has had a positive institutional impact on the
MOET. It is now able to undertake the next review of PER and preparation of MTEF, but it still needs
further strengthening as only one staff in the EPU was trained in this area. The EMIS in the MOET was
enhanced in terms of equipment, hardware, software, databases, internet connection, and staff training in
operating the equipment and data processing. However, improvement is needed in the areas of publishing
the Annual Education Statistics in a more accurate and efficient manner, and using statistical briefs to
inform policy-making and planning.

There is an increasing concern about the overall capacity of the Education Planning Unit (EPU). Among
other things, EPU is mandated to coordinate all donor-financed projects. However in 2001, in order to
expedite the then-troubled project implementation, the Ministry created a self-standing Project Support and
Coordination Unit (PSCU) with its head, Project Coordinator (PC), reporting directly to the PS of



                                                     - 14 -

Education. It was then understood that this is a temporary measure and once EPU functions well, the
project function will be incorporated back into the EPU. It has now been three years since and the capacity
of EPU remains very weak. This is manifested by the lack of leadership, generally low morale among
planners, and lack of capacity to implement core-planning functions, which are within its own mandate.
The PS and other senior education officers in the Ministry often come to EPU's rescue so that key planning
activities such as MTEF and donor coordination can still be completed. IDA and the Ministry consider it
risky to bring the project implementation into the current EPU. Yet at the same time, both fear that the
dependency on the expatriate project coordinator is not conducive to the long-term institutional capacity
building objectives. In the context of renewing the current Project Coordinator's contract, the MOET
agreed that it would submit an Action Plan on how to strengthen the EPU and in turn integrate the project
into the EPU within the next two to three years.

At the district level, the project financed training for all district education officers and resource persons at
the Learning Posts. The project also provided computers for the district offices. The capacity of
supporting project activity implementation has been enhanced. Given the broad geographical coverage of
the project, the district education offices have played an important role in coordinating project activities
among communities and schools.

At the community and school levels, management-training programs for School Advisory and Management
Committees and Secondary School Boards have had significant impact. The training allowed them to
accelerate school enrollments and better manage schools.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Following the civil unrest in September 1998, the security situation in Lesotho has stabilized and the
different political parties seem to be working together for the good of the nation. A peaceful election was
held in May 2002. The political stability and secure society of the country have supported the educational
policies and strategies set by the Government.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The counterpart contribution for this project has been satisfactory. The Government demonstrated a strong
commitment to improving education and recognizes that education and training are powerful tools in the
fight against poverty. The share of Government expenditures devoted to education has been around 28%
(including the 4% allocated to National Manpower Planning Secretariat for bursaries) in recent years, high
compared to other countries in the region.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The Ministry of Education has demonstrated a very strong commitment to implement the FPE policy and
improve quality in primary and secondary schools. MOET's determination has motivated many of its staff,
teachers, community leaders, parents and students. However, the MOET could have controlled some of the
situations to avoid implementation delays at the beginning of the project. For example, if the MOET had
been more proactive in monitoring the progress, and building capacity and strengthening the leadership in
TVD from the beginning of implementation, the objectives of the TVET component or part of them could
have been achieved. In the area of bursary scheme, it took almost two years for the MOET to recruit
bursary officers. Because of this, the scholarship program did not start until almost 2002. As for


                                                      - 15 -

curriculum development activity in NCDC, the issues of the lack of leadership due to the long absence of
the Director (for reasons of health), and the lack of initiative in starting the activity could have been
addressed earlier.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Overall, the financial outcome of project costs and disbursements was satisfactory. At appraisal, the total
project costs were estimated at US$26.7 million equivalent, out of which US$21.0 million was to be
financed by IDA (79%), and US$5.7 million (21%) financed by the Government. At the time of this ICR,
IDA funds were fully disbursed. The actual Government contribution to this project amounted to US$4.5
million (79% of the original estimate). Overall, the actual cost for each component was close to the
appraisal estimate. The actual financing for each component was close to the original plan.

In September 2002, the Government requested an amendment to reallocate the "Unallocated" amount of
SDR1, 4 million in the Schedule 1 of the "Development Credit Agreement" to textbooks and materials. In
the same amendment, the savings from other components were also allocated to textbooks and instructional
materials for Free Primary Education students. The nature of the textbooks was under Component 2
"Primary and Secondary Education". The allocation did not affect activities in other components because
it used basically the "Unallocated" resource.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

ICR Rating: Likely
The strategy and programs introduced by the project are likely to be sustained because some of them are
already national policy (FPE towards universal primary education) or to be adopted as national policy
and/or regular program. In terms of financial sustainability, GOL has demonstrated a strong commitment
to improving education and recognizes that education and training are powerful tools in the fight against
poverty. The share of Government expenditures devoted to education has been around 28% (including the
4% allocated to National Manpower Planning Secretariat for bursaries) in recent years, high compared to
other countries in the region. It has been agreed that the MOET will use MTEF as a tool to monitor the
intra-sectoral allocation to increase efficiency in resources allocation and utilization, and to ensure adequate
funding for primary and secondary education.

On the institutional capacity aspect, the Project has built basic capacity in the area of national student
assessment. ECOL staff has developed skills in item design, selection, sampling, data processing and
analysis through the first national student assessment. ECOL is now able to prepare the next assessment
for primary and lower secondary schools. The Distance Teacher Training Program developed under this
project, along with the regular program in Lesotho College of Education, will help the country improve the
quality of primary school teachers and produce more primary teachers to meet the high demand of growing
enrollments. The EPU is able and will continue to produce Annual Education Statistics, but it needs to
make efforts to do it in a more accurate and timely fashion, and develop a strategy on how to use the data
to inform policy-making and planning. This area will be the focus of EPU in Phase II.

For the purpose of long-term capacity building within the MOET, the Bank and MOET together need to
make efforts to further strengthen the capacity and leadership in the EPU and incorporate the functions of
the Project Coordination and Support Unit (PCSU) back into the EPU during first two years of Phase II.




                                                      - 16 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Transitional arrangements have been made through Phase II (US$21 million) of the 12-year program ESDP
II financed by the World Bank. Phase II will support mainly the continuation of activities of Phase I,
including further improving the access, equity, and quality of primary and secondary education, early
childhood care and development, continued policy work and capacity building in TVET, NFE, higher and
non-formal education, and MOET institutional strengthening.

The design of Phase II was guided by the 12-year Education Sector Development Program agreed upon in
1999, the recent developments in education, and the lessons learned from Phase I.

Phase II will continue laying the foundation for TVET reform. The priority will be given to getting the
policies right for a market-led system of skills development. Management and financing of the TVET will
encourage accountability for performance and link provision to market demand.

For the NFE, Phase II will re-orient its priority from a predominantly literacy program for children who
could not afford formal schooling to a skills development program for adults who were beyond the age of
formal schooling. The re-orientation is needed because the introduction of FPE has successfully brought
into the formal school system many of those children who could not afford schooling before.

For the bursary program, Phase II will modify the scheme to (i) tighten the criteria for selection; (ii) use
forward budgeting of bursary resources to determine every year how many bursaries will be carried over
from the previous year and how many new bursaries will be awarded; (iii) introduce a district-based
bursary quota; (iv) introduce maximum bursaries to be awarded; and (v) accelerate the disbursements of
bursaries to schools. The Bank will provide technical assistance in bursary scheme and opportunities for
the MOET to learn about other experiences of bursary scheme. An independent evaluation for the bursary
scheme has been planned in 2004. The findings and recommendations will be incorporated into the revised
bursary scheme.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Bank team actively engaged the
Government in a productive dialogue to jointly define the project objectives and components. Development
objectives and the triggers selected were based on substantial Bank team-Government discussions. The
project targeted poor and other disadvantaged children in inaccessible and rural areas. The project design
was flexible in response to the Government's long-term education policies and strategies. During
preparation, the Bank team kept in regular communication with the MOET and provided adequate
follow-up and guidance. The education sector knowledge from previous Bank projects in Lesotho was
incorporated into the design to underpin the project.

7.2 Supervision:

Supervision of the project by the World Bank team is rated Satisfactory. A total of 11 supervision
missions were carried out until the closure of the project. Two Task Team Leaders were in charge of the
entire supervision period. Both of them were also members of the team for the preparation phase. This
continuity in Bank task management ensured consistency and a high degree of follow up on supervision
mission's recommendations. It also helped to continue building the already good working relationship with


                                                     - 17 -

the Borrower. As mentioned earlier in other sections, the Project had a serious delay during the first year
of implementation. The project performance was in jeopardy; very little funding was disbursed; and the
project performance was rated unsatisfactory in two consecutive Project Status Reports (PSR) for about a
year. To improve the situation, the Task Team took proactive actions to seek advice and solutions by
requesting a Quality Enhancement Review (QER). The Education Anchor Quality Team at the World
Bank conducted a QER for this project in January 2001. The QER panel provided timely
recommendations and options for the key issues in the project. Further, the Task Team kept regular
communication with the Coordinator of the Project Unit, and the Ministry officials, as well as direct
contact with the Principal Secretary and Deputy Secretary, following up on agreed actions and providing
guidance. The proactive actions by the Bank team, together with MOET's tremendous efforts, had an
impact on the project implementation. By the time of the project Mid-Term Review in December 2001,
activities in most of the components had started and were making progress. Since then, implementation
maintained a good momentum and achieved the major and important objectives and outputs by the time of
project closing.

As mentioned earlier, this project involved many sub-sectoral activities, including policy reform and
formulation and institutional development, which normally require more technical assistance. The Task
Team could have sought support from other donors, such as Ireland Aid, the GOL, as well as use the
Country Director and Sector Manager more aggressively in discussions of difficulty policy issues. In
Phase II, it is suggested that the task team to provide more technical support for the area of policy and
institutional development.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Given the above explanations, the overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

GOL's performance during project preparation is rated Satisfactory. The Government demonstrated a
strong commitment to reduce poverty through investing in education. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) sent
an official letter to the Bank requesting an IDA credit to support GOL's education policy and strategy.
The letter outlined in detail the objectives of the project focusing on access and equity, quality and
efficiency and policy for ECCD, TVET and NFE. The MOET worked with the Bank team side by side. A
participatory approach was used to consult with a broad range of stakeholders through workshops and field
visits. The process of identifying priorities and shaping project design built a foundation for ownership of
the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Overall Government implementation performance is rated Satisfactory. The high commitment that was
demonstrated during the preparation phase was maintained by the Minister of Finance, Minister of
Education, Principal Secretary for Education, Deputy Secretary for Education, through the Project
Coordinator, Directors, and Heads of Program in the MOET. The project benefited from a consistent
government political and financial commitment and support along the entire project cycle. Introduction of
Free Primary Education further demonstrated the Government's determination to fight poverty through
investing in education.




                                                      - 18 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The overall performance of the implementing agency is rated Satisfactory. The MOET, through the Project
Coordination and Support Unit (PCSU), has managed to implement the comprehensive project, including
four major components and six sub-components with numerous activities. The procurement practice was
in line with the Bank procedures, and financial management was improved over the life of the project.
Three financial audit reports were sent to the Bank for review on time and were satisfactory, although the
first one was delayed. The PCSU served as a regular and important contact to the Bank team and monitor
project progress.

The project implementation, however, had a delay in start-up activities in most components for about a
year. Several factors contributed to the delay, but the major one was the introduction of the FPE policy.
Most of the senior staff in the MOET were asked by the Minister and Primary Minister to provide
extensive support to FPE-related activities. District education officers were visiting school by school, and
village by village to disseminate the FPE policy in order to attract and encourage out-of school children to
go to school. Other factors for delay included insufficient knowledge of relevant procedures by some
Heads of Program; insufficient initiative by Heads of Program; and in some cases, inadequate
communication between the Planning Unit and Heads of Program.

To overcome these obstacles, the MOET disseminated papers to all Heads of Program, explaining
functions within the Planning Unit, procedures for donor funds, procurement, payments, selection and
appointment of consultants, organizing workshops, training courses, and study tours. Another proactive
action taken by the MOET was to create the PCSU so that the Project Coordinator reports directly to the
Principal Secretary of Education (PS) as a means to expedite the project implementation. Those actions,
together with other efforts, helped project implementation, which made good progress since 2001 especially
in the past two years. Most components made up the lost time and completed the activities as planned and
in some cases carried out more and new activities.

The creation of PCSU served its purpose of expediting the project implementation. However, from the
view of long-term capacity building within the MOET, it is important to incorporate the project
coordination and support function back to the EPU. To do this, the MOET will need to strengthen its
institutional capacity and leadership role in the EPU.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Given the above explanations, the overall Borrower's performance is rated Satisfactory.




                                                    - 19 -

8. Lessons Learned

In the project design:

   l Lesotho introduced Free Primary Education in 2000 and unlike Uganda or Malawi, the
        implementation is phased. The project was able to support the implementation of FPE by
        constructing classrooms, providing teaching learning materials, training of school management and
        teachers. However, had it been a "big bang" approach (abolishing fees for all primary grades
        simultaneously), the Ministry would not have sufficient capacity nor financing (from both GOL
        and donors). The Free Primary Education (FPE) is more manageable and potentially more
        sustainable if it is implemented as a phase-in operation, rather than big-bang approach.

   l The choice of APL instrument was appropriate for the education sector in Lesotho. The
        instrument allows longer period to achieve overall objectives. This is particularly important to the
        policy and institutional development aspect of the project. In particular, the reforms in TVET,
        NFE, and ECCD, have proven to require longer time frame as they all involve a shift in the role of
        the Government from being a provider to being a regulator and supporter. The setting of overall
        objectives prevented anyone from hijacking the reform process. Further, the commitment in
        financing of subsequent phases from both GOL and IDA has made the movement to the subsequent
        phase easier. However, APL does not necessarily lead to simplification in Bank procedures
        especially if the triggers are not met.

   l Triggers for APL need to be carefully designed. They need to be more realistic and not be written
        as if they were dated covenants. In the case of the TVET component, the trigger "Technical and
        Vocational Education Act in place by December 2000" was too ambitious. It was still not
        achieved by project closing.

   l Though there is no a formal SWAP approach in the Lesotho education sector, the experience of the
        project found that informal coordination including information exchange among all partners can
        still go a long way in achieving solid progress on ground.

    In the project implementation:

   l Be flexible while conducting dialogue with Bank's clients during implementation as long as it is in
        line with the framework of long-term development objectives and adheres to general Bank
        procedures. The subcomponents and financing were revised to incorporate support for FPE and to
        adjust to shifting priorities, but still within the same long-term objectives.

   l Task team continuity played an important role in the successful implementation. Though there
        were two changes in task team leadership, the current TTL was involved in the design of ESDP II
        Phase I.

   l The selection of sites for school construction is often politicized especially in countries where there
        is still a great need for physical infrastructure. This was the reason why project implementation
        was initially delayed. Though the simple-checklist type of procedures worked relatively well
        during Phase I, a more scientific approach for site selection is needed to target the most
        disadvantaged areas, avoid over-building in certain areas, and to protect the education officers
        from political influences. A primary and secondary school mapping exercise is being conducted to
        guide the selection of sites for Phase II.




                                                        - 20 -

    l Often education projects have components, which involve training of managers, teachers and
        inspectors through a series of workshops. In the Lesotho context, it has proven necessary to
        outsource the training program for Primary Advisory and Management Committees and Secondary
        School Boards because of the lack of expertise in this area in the MOET. Outsourcing can also
        avoid delay of training courses and reduce the burden on the inspectors who themselves were
        already over committed to other responsibilities.

    l The initial selection criteria for the Bursary Program were not stringent enough. As a result, many
        people applied and eventually too many candidates qualified for bursaries and available funds were
        usually not adequate to support all recommended candidates. The bursary scheme was supposed to
        be started as a pilot in certain districts before expanding to all ten districts. This has taught the
        Bank and the Ministry that a clear plan and criteria for undertaking programs of this nature should
        be in place and adhered to. Further, annual planning and budgeting should be used as a tool.
        Quotas should be distributed to the districts based on an agreed formula.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Please see Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

None.




                                                      - 21 -

 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

 A.   Outcome / Impact Indicators

     Indicator/Matrix               Baseline                 Target                       Actual/Latest Estimate

Component I: ECCD                                                              Achieved.
(1) National ECCD policy      ECCD was not          ECCD Framework in          ECCD Policy Framework received in 2001,
framework approved by         governed by a         place and providers        revised later and was approved by the
December 2001.                comprehensive         familiar with guidelines. Ministry of Education.
                              framework.
Component II: Primary                                                          Achieved and exceeded.
and Secondary                 Primary NER was       Primary NER: 73%           Between 1999 and 2002, primary NER
                              68% (calculated by    (calculated by using de    increased from 61% to 85%. Note: The
(1) Net enrollment rate       using de jure pop. at jure pop. at appraisal).   population data used to calculate NER was
(NER) in Standards 1-7        appraisal); and       This is a trigger for      based on the projections by using de facto
increased from 68% to 73% 61% (calculated by        moving from Phase I to population (living within the territory of
by December 2002.             using de factor pop. Phase II of the APL.        Lesotho) and taking into account the
                              during ICR                                       HIV/AIDS prevalence rate.
                              mission).

(2)                           These two areas       Enhanced management (i) Partially achieved
 (i) National policy          were not              of curriculum, testing & NCDC presented a draft framework and a
framework for primary         administered under    assessment.                final version is expected in mid 2004. The
education curriculum and      an integrated                                    delay was mainly due to an unexpected
assessment in place; and      framework.                                       considerable time required for broad
                                                                               consultations.
(ii) National assessment for                                                   (ii) Achieved
primary education designed                                                     The first national assessment was
and implemented by                                                             administered and the results were analyzed.
December 2001                                                                  The capacity was built through this exercise
                                                                               and training. The ECOL is now capable of
                                                                               conducting relatively complex national
                                                                               student assessment.

(3) At least 75% of the       Not all committees    Training completed and Achieved.
School Advisory and           were set up at the    performance assessed       Training has been completed and the
Management Committees         primary school level, independently. This is a independent evaluation results showed
functioning satisfactorily by and none at the       trigger for moving from that 87% of the Committee members
December 2001 (assessed       secondary level.      Phase I to Phase II of the satisfied with the training and learned
independently).                                     APL.                       basic knowledge in school management
                                                                               and finance.

(4) Advocacy campaign on It was not done            The campaign conductedAchieved.
out-of-school children        before.               by Dec 2000

(5) Initiating Policy work onA secondary policy     Launched by December Achieved.
secondary education           work on expansion     2000
expansion                     was needed.
                                                    Reduce pupil / teacher     Achieved.
(6) Reducing primary pupil: Pupil teacher ratio     ratio of 45 by the end of 46 in 2002. Data for 2003 will be
teacher ratio.                was 47.9 in 2000.     project                    available by May 2004.




                                                         - 22 -

(7) MTEF used regularly.     MTEF was not used MTEF in use; 70%.               Partially achieved.
70% of education recurrent before.                 Budget allocated to
budget (increased from       68% of education      primary/secondary.          MTEF is in use; but currently only 68% of
68%) allocated to primary    recurrent budget was This is a trigger for        education recurrent budget is devoted to
& secondary educ. for fiscal for primary and       moving from Ph. I to        primary and secondary education.
year April 2001 & onward. secondary in 1999.       Ph. II of the APL.




Component III: TVET:

(1) Qualifications framework The existing framework Qualifications framework                Not achieved.
and enhanced accreditation     was not effective and     established and accreditation      This indicator was too ambitious.
system for TVET in place by    not coordinated with      system enhanced.
December 2001.                 regional frameworks.

(2) Technical and Vocational The existing Act did not This is a trigger for moving           Not achieved.
Education Act in place by      allow for sufficient      from Phase I to Phase II of the     TVET Act is still under revision
Dec 2000.                      private sector            APL.                                by the time of project closing and
                               participation.                                                will be finalized under Phase II.

(3) A financial management    A weak financial           This is a trigger for moving fromNot Achieved
and performance monitoring    management of TVET. Phase I to Phase II.                      This indicator was too ambitious
system for TVET in place by                                                                 and was not achieved by the end of
June 2002.                                                                                  Phase I.

(4) Establishment of a new     The existing system was Tripartite management structure Not achieved
management structure for       supply-driven. A          in place and operational by        Although the interim structure is
TVET, made up of               tripartite system will    March 2001.                        in place, the tripartite management
representatives of employers, make TVET more                                                structure is not yet in place. This
employees and the GOL.         demand-driven.                                               work is being continued under
                                                                                            Phase II.

Component IV: NFE
                                                                                            Draft policy and guidelines were
(1) NFE Act approved;          No NFE Act was            This is a trigger for moving       presented at a consultation
operational guidelines issued established.               from Phase I to Phase II of the    workshop in 1999. But the MOET
and options defined by                                   APL.                               decided to hold the approval
December 2001.                                                                              process because the priority of
                                                                                            NFE was shifted as FPE covered
                                                                                            many of the beneficiaries that were
                                                                                            supposed to be covered by NFE. A
                                                                                            re-orientation for NFE is needed.
                                                                                            Therefore, this output indicator is
                                                                                            no longer suitable for Phase I.




                                                        - 23 -

 B.       Output Indicators
       Indicator/Matrix                  Baseline                    Target                   Actual/Latest Estimate

Component I: ECCD                Weak capacity            ECCD Unit Staff                  Achieved.
(1) Staffing level for ECCD                               managing new role
Unit identified and                                       effectively and efficiently.
recruitment completed by
June 2000.
                                                                                       Achieved and exceed targets.
(2) ECCD pilot programs          Wide variety of          Pilots tested in 2 districts Pilots established in 4 districts and
tested in selected villages in 2 approaches in place, but and outcomes analyzed.       evaluation of outcomes was
targeted districts by            without analysis of best Recommendations for          completed. Recommendations for
December 2001 and analyzed practices.                     expansion.                   expansion will be incorporated into
by June 2002.                                                                          Phase II implementation.
Component II: Primary and
Secondary                        Shortage of primary      Increase annual intake of        Achieved.
                                 school teachers; and     teachers from 200 to 500.
(1) In-service Distance          many primary school
Teacher Education Program        teachers were
developed by January 2001.       unqualified.

(2) Twenty-six student           Ineffective use of       Hostels in use. Annual           Achieved.
hostels at LCE refurbished       resources currently.     intake of students
and in use by December           Need to increase intake increased to 500.
2000.                            of students.

(3) New primary school          Previous project          200 new classrooms (total) Achieved and exceed the target. 392
classrooms built: 70 by         constructed 1,000         built.                       schools were built.
December 2000, 70 by            primary classrooms,
December 2001, and 60 by        which are already
December 2002.                  overcrowded.

(4) Targeted and equity-based Need piloting bursary       Pilots tested and            Achieved.
pilots designed by December scheme to target              recommendations made forBursary scheme operational. A total
2000 for implementation in      disadvantaged children. expansion.                     of 24,799 bursaries were awarded to
December 2001.                                                                         disadvantaged children. Evaluation
                                                                                       is planned for 2004 under Phase II.

(5) Public Expenditure Review The MOET had never         PER prepared and served           Achieved.
completed by the MOET by        prepared a PER.          as basis for MTEF.
April 2000.

(6) Accounts Section of         Need to fill posts:       Accounts Section fully           Achieved.
Planning Unit, MOET             Financial Manager,        staffed and trained.
strengthened through            CFO, and Chief
recruitment and training by     Accountant.
December 1999.
                                                          EMIS data strengthened;
(7) EMIS upgraded and            Weak EMIS and            central and district level       Achieved.
baseline data provided by        unreliable data          staff trained; reliable data
December 1999.                                            provided.




                                                         - 24 -

Component III: TVET:
                                                     Interim Board managed        Achieved.
(1) Interim TVET Board      The TVET Board was       transition to revise
established by June 1999.   dominated by GOL         TVET Board.

(2) Restructuring of TVD                            TVD reconstructed.            Not achieved.
completed by June 2000.

Component IV: NFE

(1) Interim NFE Council     No council was in place Interim NFE Council       Interim NFE Council was established.
established by December     to oversee NFE           dissolved and            Draft policy and guidelines were
1999.                       developments.            responsibility handed to presented at a consultation workshop in
                                                     permanent Council.       1999. But the MOET decided to hold
                                                                              the approval process because the priority
                                                                              of NFE was shifted as FPE covered
                                                                              many of the beneficiaries that were
                                                                              supposed to be covered by NFE. A
                                                                              re-orientation for NFE is needed.
                                                                              Therefore, this output indicator is no
                                                                              longer suitable for Phase I.



(2) Options for sustainable GOL incapable of         Clear guidelines and     Draft policy and guidelines for NFE
funding for NFE identified, financing NFE            action plans for NFE     were presented at a consultation
agreed and disseminated by  expansion. Need to       financing and expansion workshop in 1999. But the MOET
December 2000.              strengthen partnerships  agreed by all            decided to hold the approval process
                            with other providers.    stakeholders.            because the priority of NFE was shifted
                                                                              as FPE covered many of the beneficiaries
                                                                              that were supposed to be covered by
                                                                              NFE. A re-orientation for NFE is
                                                                              needed. Therefore, this output indicator
                                                                              is no longer suitable for Phase I.




                                                   - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              Actual/Latest
                     Component                               Appraisal           Estimate         Percentage
                                                             Estimate           US$ million      of Appraisal
                                                            US$ million
1. Early Childhood Development                                  0.4                  0.4            91.2%
2. Primary & Secondary Education                                23.4                17.5             74.9%
3. Technical & Vocational Education & Training                   1.0                 0.4             43.7%
4. Non-formal Education                                          0.4                 0.1             25.6%
5*. Unidentified Studies and TA                                  1.5                 6.8            456.0%
 Total Project Costs                                            26.7                25.3            94.6%
 Total Financing Required                                       21.0                21.0            100.0%
* The amount under component 5 "Unidentified Studies and TA" and savings from TVET and Non-Formal
Education components, and civil works were used for purchasing core textbooks / other instructional materials for
Free Primary Education (FPE) students, which should be under Component 2 "Primary and Secondary Education".




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                   Procurement           Method   1       N.B.F.       Total
       Expenditure Category               ICB            NCB             Other  2                      Cost

1. Works                                  1.8            4.0              4.0               1.0          9.8
                                        (1.4)           (3.7)             (3.7)                         (8.8)
2. Goods                                (0.6)           (1.2)             (0.5)                         (2.3)

3. Services
 3.1 Consulting Services                                                  (2.5)                         (2.5)

 3.2 Training and Bursaries                                               (0.5)             1.0          1.5
                                                                                                        (0.5)
 3.3 Workshop & Study Tours                                               (5.0)                         (5.0)

4. Miscellaneous                                                          (0.9)             3.7          4.6
                                                                                                        (0.9)
   Total                                                                                    5.7         26.7
                                                                                                       (21.0)




                                                    - 26 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Procurement          Method1
       Expenditure Category                  ICB               NCB             Other2           N.B.F.     Total Cost

1. Works                                     2.00              7.10                              1.2          10.3
                                            (2.00)            (7.10)                                         ( 9.17)
2. Goods: Equipment, Vehicle,                                  2.07             2.20             0.1           4.4
Textbooks/Materials, Supply
                                                              (2.07)           (2.20)                        ( 4.28)
3. Services                                  0.50              1.90              4.6             0.2           7.2
                                            (0.5)             (1.90)            (4.6)                        ( 7.0)
4. Miscellaneous                                                                0.33             3.0           3.3
                                                                                (.33)                         (.33)
   Total                                     2.50             11.07              7.1             4.5          25.2
                                            (3.0)            (11.07)            (7.1)                        (21.0)


1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                  Component                        Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest          Percentage of
                                                                                  Estimate              Appraisal
                                                   IDA      Govt. CoF.       IDA    Govt. CoF.      IDA    Govt. CoF.
 1. Early Childhood Development                     0.4                      0.4    0.01            88%

 2. Primary & Secondary Education                  17.7      5.7             16.2   1.35            91%

 3. Technical & Vocational Educ. & Training         1.0                      0.4    0.02            42%

 4. Non-formal Education                            0.4                      0.1    0.01            24%

 5. Unidentified Studies and TA                     1.5                      3.7    3.10           250%

   Total                                           21.0      5.7              21     4.5           100%    79%


The amount under component 5 "Unidentified Studies and TA" and savings from TVET and Non-Formal
Education components, and civil works were used for purchasing core textbooks / other instructional materials for
Free Primary Education (FPE) students, which should be under Component 2 "Primary and Secondary Education".




                                                        - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No economic costs and benefit analysis was carried out at the time of project preparation, nor was it done
at the time of the ICR.




                                                 - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/16/1998                8    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (3);
                                             ECONOMIST (2); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/30/1998                9    EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (3); ECONOMIST (2);
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             COUNSEL (1)

 Supervision
              06/09/1999                     NO MISSION WAS                   S               S
                                             CARRIED OUT BECAUSE
                                             THE PROJECT WAS NOT
                                             YET EFFECTIVE AT THE
                                             PSR TIME.
              09/25/1999                2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);          S               S
                                             SR. ECONOMIST (1)
              04/10/2000                3    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             ARCHITECT CONSULTANT
                                             (1); SR. ECONOMIST (1)
              10/31/2000                2    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             ARCHITECT CONSULTANT
                                             (1);
              04/26/2001                3    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);        U               S
                                             ARCHITECT CONSULTANT
                                             (1); SR. ECONOMIST (1)
              10/10/2001                1    MISSION FOR COMPLETION           U               S
                                             OF THE PUBLIC
                                             EXPENDITURE REVIEW AND
                                             PERPARATION OF TERMS OF
                                             REFERENCE FOR MTEF
              11/05/2001                6    THIS IS MID-TERM REVIEW          U               S
                                             MISSION.
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SR. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             TEACHER EDUCATION




                                              - 29 -

                                            SPECIALIST, CONSULTANT
                                            (1); ARCHITECT,
                                            CONSULTANT (1); NFE
                                            SPECIALIST, CONSULTANT
                                            (1); TVET SPECIALIST,
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
               04/29/2002                   UPDATED PSR BASED ON              S    S
                                            PROGRESS OF THE PROJECT

               06/14/2002              3    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);         S    S
                                            ARCHITECT CONSULTANT
                                            (1); SR. ECONOMIST (1)

               11/21/2002              6    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);         S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT (1); HIGHER
                                            EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                            ARCHITECT CONSULTANT
                                            (1); SR. ECONOMIST (1)

               07/31/2003              3    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);         S    S
                                            ARCHITECTE CONSULTANT
                                            (1); FINANCIAL
                                            MANAGEMENT (1);
               12/15/2003                   PSR WAS UPDATED BASED             S    S
                                            ON FINDINGS FROM A
                                            CONBINED SPN AND
                                            APPRAISAL MISSION IN
                                            SEPTEMBER, 2003

 ICR
               09/15/03               1     MONITORING AND                    S    S
                                            EVALUATION
                                            SPECIALIST



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               60                          240
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    93                          371
  Supervision                            164                           659
  ICR                                       4                           16
  Total                                  321                         1,287




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA


The project had an equity-based target program through a bursary scheme, which targeted the poor and
disadvantaged children. The school construction sub-component also targeted the poor, especially the rural
poor. Priority for primary school construction was given to targeted districts on the basis of poverty and
remoteness of location.




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

"Evaluation of the Training Program of Primary Schools Advisory and Management Committees", Ministry
of Education, January 2004.

"Evaluation of School Feeding Program in Lesotho", by University of London, University of Lesotho, Center
for Food Policy in Thames Valley University, August 2002.

Quality at Entry Assessment Report for Lesotho ESDP II Phase I, QAG, World Bank, 1999

Final Report of Quality Enhancement Review for ESDP II Phase I, World Bank, January 2001

"Student Assessment, A Baseline Pilot Survey of Attainment in Literacy and Numeracy", Analytical Report,
NCDC of Lesotho, June 2003.

"Lesotho Public Expenditure Review of the Education Sector", Final Draft, Ministry of Education, February
2002

"Report on Mid-term Expenditure Framework for Ministry of Education Lesotho", Oxford Policy
Management, 2003

"National Policy for Integrated Early Childhood Care and Development", Final Draft, Ministry of
Education, Nov. 2000. The policy framework was approved in 2003.

"The Integrated Early Childhood Care and Development ­ Centers Regulations", Draft, Ministry of
Education, March, 2001

"Evaluation of Home-Based Program for ECCD in the Ministry of Education", E Molapi Sebatane and J
Pulane Lefoka, Lesotho, January, 2004

"Needs Assessment for the Ministry of Education Early Childhood Care and Development Training
Program", National University of Lesotho, April 2001.

Evaluation of the Learning Post Program Pilot Project for the Non-Formal Education in the Ministry of
Education Lesotho", Lipholo Makhetha, Samuel Motlomelo, Institute of Education, National University of
Lesotho, March, 2004.

"Lesotho Core Welfare Indicators Survey Report", Bureau of Statistics, Lesotho, 2002

"2001 Lesotho Demographic Survey - Analytical Report", Bureau of Statistics, Lesotho, May 2003

"Annual Education Statistics", Ministry of Education, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002.

World Bank Population Projections by a Consultant, September 2003.

Development Credit Agreement, ESDP II Project Phase I, Credit No. 3192-LSO, World Bank, May 21, 1999

Project Appraisal Document, ESDP II Project Phase I, Report No. 18388-LSO, World Bank, March 25, 1999

Various Project Status Reports, World Bank, 1999-2003

Aide-Memoires, Back-to-office Reports, Terms of References of Various Supervision Missions. World Bank,
    September 1999, April 2001, November 2001, June 2002, November 2002, April 2003, and September
    2003.




                                                    - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report




                               Kingdom of Lesotho
                       Ministry of Education and Training




                      Implementation Completion Report


                                        For


            Second Education Sector Development Project-Phase 1:
                              Credit No: 31920-LSO




                                        - 34 -

                                       CONTENTS



List of Acronyms

1. Project Data
2. Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design and Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
5. Major Factors affecting Implementation and Outcomes
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned




                                            - 35 -

ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL    Adaptable Program Loan
CEO    Chief Education Officer
COSC   Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
DRT    District Resource Teacher
DTEP   Distance Teacher Education Program
ECCD   Early Childhood Care and Development
ECOL   Examination Council of Lesotho
EFA    Education For All
EFU    Education Facilities Unit
EMIS   Education Management Information System
EO     Education Officer
ESDP   Education Sector Development Project
FPE    Free Primary Education
GOL    Government of Lesotho
HE     Higher Education
IDA    International Development Association
JC     Junior Certificate
ICT    Information and Communication Technology
IT     Information Technology
LCE    Lesotho College of Education
MC     Management Committee
MOE    Ministry of Education
MTEF   Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NCDC   National Curriculum Development Center
NFE    Non-formal Education
NUL    National University of Lesotho
PER    Public Expenditure Review
PERSG  Public Expenditure Review Steering Group
PIM    Project Implementation Manual
PSLE   Primary School Leaving Examination
PU     Planning Unit
QFL    Qualifications Framework for Lesotho
SADC   South African Development Community
SEO    Senior Education Officer
SRT    Senior Resource Teacher
SWAP   Sector Wide Approach
TC     Technical Committee
TSD    Teaching Service Department
TVET   Technical and Vocational Education Training
UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
UPE    Universal Primary Education




                                       - 36 -

1. BASIC DATA

1.1 Background

The Second Education Sector Development Project (ESDP II) is an adaptable loan program spanning 12
years from 1999 to 2011. It aims to support the Government of Lesotho in its efforts to strengthen and
expand its educational system. The APL is organized in three Phases (Phase 1 ­ 1999-2003; Phase 2 ­
2003-2007; and Phase 3 ­ 2007-2011). This is an ICR for Phase 1.

1.2     Objectives of the project

The objective of Phase 1 of the project was to assist the Government of Lesotho in its efforts to improve the
performance and efficiency of its education sector by promoting equity, increasing access to education, and
improving quality. The Project consists of four main components including (a) early childhood, care and
development program; (b) improvement of primary and secondary education; (c) enhancement of technical
and vocational education framework; and (d) promotion of non-formal education. The management of
sectoral expenditure is one area that has been addressed under this project. The MOET is implementing the
MTEF that will result in development of a framework for a rational and equity based resource allocation
strategy. Moreover, the project has addressed the overall Government of Lesotho's (GOL) objective of
poverty reduction through procurement of educational facilities such as classrooms' construction, provision
of equipment and learning materials particularly under Free Primary Education. The Free Primary
Education program is also an attempt by the Government to reach out to the children from poverty
backgrounds, to acquire basic education.

1.3 Basic Project Data
Project ID: P056416            Project Name: Second Education Sector Development Project
Team Leader: Xiaoyan Liang AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR             Report Date: 15 March 2004


Financing agency: International Development Association (IDA)
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Kingdom of Lesotho, Ministry of Education
Credit Amount                  US$21,000,000
Counterpart Amount             US$ 5,700,000
Board Approval                 April 15, 1999
Credit Signing                 May 21, 1999
Credit Effectiveness           September 30, 1999
Credit (revised) Closing Date December 31, 2003
Expected Project Costs         US$26,700,000
Total Disbursement             US$25,272,286

Current Expenditure            US$25,272,286




                                                    - 37 -

1.4     Financing Plan
     APL                       Indicative Financing Plan         Estimated
                                                                 Implementation Period

                               IDA      GOL         TOTAL        INITIAL    CLOSING
                                                                 DEPOSIT DATE
                               Million Million      Million      Million
                               US$      US$         US$          US$
   APL 1         Credit        21       5.7         26.7          1.0       Dec. 2003
   APL 2         Credit        20       20          40           1.5        Dec. 2007
   APL 3         Credit        20       20          40                      June 2011
   TOTAL                       61       45.7        106.7



Borrower (GOL):
                   1999/2000 2000/2001  2001/2002    2002/2003     2003/2004  Total
Requests/
Applications       325,998   797,377         936,358      794,640    1,378,113   4,232,486



Allocated/Approved 325,998   797,377         936,358      794,640    1,378,113   4,232,486



Expenditure        273,500   530,222         544,342     1,395,357   1,744,333   4,487,754



Donor (IDA):



Applications       793,707   2,052,185      3,908,195    8,087,489   4,598,567  19,440,143



Disbursed          793,707   2,052,185      3,908,195    8,087,489   4,598,567  19,440,143



Expenditure        527,180   1,982,663      4,378,530    8,578,026   5,318,133  20,784,532

Total:  GOL    and
IDA                800,680   2,512,885      4,922,872    9,973,383   7,062,466  25,272,286




                                              - 38 -

PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS

ESDP II-1 Key Performance Indicators and Triggers
                                                       Outcomes                 Achieved/Not Achieved
Key Performance Indicators
1. National ECD policy approved by December            Policy document          Achieved
2001                                                   approved
2. Net enrol. rate in standards 1-7 increased from     85.0% for 2002           Achieved
68% to 73% *
3. Primary curriculum and assessment policy            1st National             Achieved
framework in place; 1st national assessment            Assessment done in
implemented                                            March 2003
4. Advocacy campaign on out-of-school children         Done                     Achieved
launched
5. Policy work on secondary education expansion        School mapping and       Achieved
initiated                                              GIS work Commenced
6. MTEF used consistently; 70% budget allocated to MTEF instrument              Achieved
prim. and sec. for FY2001 and onward *                 under preparation.
                                                       72.6% budgeted for
                                                       primary and secondary
                                                       2002/03
7. 75% of School Committees and Boards                 Independent              Achieved.
functioning satisfactorily by Dec. 2001 *              assessment of school
                                                       committees undertaken
8. Technical and Vocational Education Act in place     Draft Policy and Bill    To be finalized under
*                                                      being developed.         Phase II
9. A new tripartite TVET management structure          Tripartite Task Force in Depend on final policy
operational by March 2001                              place. Formal structure
                                                       in draft policy
10. TVET qualifications framework and                  Qualifications           Depend on final policy
accreditation in place by December 2001                framework being
                                                       developed.
11. A TVET financial and performance monitoring        Consultancy has          Depend on final policy
system in place by June 2002 *                         commenced.
12. NFE Act approved; operational guidelines           Not done.                Not Achieved
issued and options defined by December 2001 *
*These indicators are also triggers for moving into the next phase

3. Assessment of Development Objective, Design and Quality at Entry

3.1 Assessment of development objectives and quality at entry

Compared to many other Sub-Saharan African (SSA) countries Lesotho has developed a strong education
system with above average indicators by regional standards. According to the Public Expenditure Review
of the Education Sector performed in 2001/2002, Lesotho has nine (9) years of school life expectancy,
which on average is higher than most SSA countries. In 1999, the primary and secondary net enrolment had
risen to 60 percent and 22 percent respectively. However as useful as it is, the NER in Lesotho's context
has a shortcoming in that it excludes overage children who due to cultural settings enter and complete the
system late.




                                                       - 39 -

Despite these positive developments and positive commitment, the system faces a number of challenges:
access to and quality of ECCD services vary greatly across the country; participation rates in primary
education has slowed down despite the jump resulted from FPE since 2000; repetition rates are still high
although they are falling and primary completion rate is still low; secondary school drop-out rates are high;
the TVET sub-sector is has not reached take-off stage. High HIV and AIDS prevalence rates have an
impact on MOET officials, staff, and teachers and also introduce the orphaned children phenomena in the
school system.

3.2 Project Description

The ESDP II Phase I aimed to address the long-term development goal of strengthening Lesotho's human
development base and ultimately reducing poverty. Investments were made in the areas of pre-primary and
primary, secondary, Teacher development, Technical and Vocational, non-formal and the MOET
management.

Project Objectives

The overall objectives were to increase access to and the quality of Education services; to assess, design,
test and implement targeted approaches for providing educational opportunities for the poorest of the poor;
to support policy formulation and promote increased decentralisation of school management through
community participation.

3.3 Project Original Components: The project originally had five main components and with total cost of
US$21.0 million and have not been changed except for an addition in the categories of Primary Text
Books. The components' description is as follows:

A.      Early Childhood Care and Development (US$0.4 million)
A1. Identification of priorities for ECCD (US$0.1 million)
A2. Planning for Curriculum design, teacher training and policy enhancement for ECCD (US$0.2 million)

A3. Pilot testing of community-based, low-cost options for (ECCD US$0.1 million)

B.      Primary and Secondary Education US$17.7 million
B1. Curriculum, testing and assessment US$2.1 million
B2. Teacher development and support US$2.9 million
B3. Physical construction US$8.8 million
B4. School-level management US$1.9 million
B5. Targeted equity-based program US$0.2 million
B6. Planning, monitoring and evaluation US$1.8 million

C.      Technical and Vocational Education and Training US$1.0 million
C1. Development of a management structure US$0.3 million
C2. Development of an enhanced accreditation/qualification system US$0.2 million
C3. Development of financial management and performance monitoring system US$0.3 million
C4. Development of an alternative financing scheme US$0.2 million

D.      Non-Formal Education US$0.4 million
D1. Identification of priorities for NFE US$0.1 million
D2. Definition of role of MOE relative to other players US$0.1 million


                                                   - 40 -

D3. Strengthening/development of appropriate management structures, performance monitoring, etc
US$0.2 million.

E.       Institutional Reform, Project Monitoring and Evaluation US$0.5 million
E1. Output 1: Align budget allocations with sector priorities
E2. Output 2: Increase efficiency of financial resource utilization
E3. Output 3: Implement an enhanced management information system
E4. Output 4: Establish and put in place a system of monitoring and evaluation

3.4 Important Developments in Education since ESDP II Phase I, (1999- 2003)

Introduction of Free Primary Education: The GoL introduced this policy in 1999. The policy was to be
implemented in a phased manner so that fees were         abolished for one standard every year starting from
2000. In addition to abolishing fees, the policy includes provision of a teaching and learning materials
package, school feeding, and maintenance of schools. Immediately after the policy, primary enrolment
increased from 365,000 to 411,000 in 2000, a 12 percent increase (mostly standard 1). The enrolment kept
increasing every year though with a much slower numbered compare to 2000. This year 2003, FPE has
included standard five and is expected to cover all primary by 2007.

Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF): ESDP II Phase I has also built in its strategies the
MTEF budgeting tool as a strategy for improving the equity and efficiency of sector allocation.
Programmes have been exposed to this kind of budgeting and training was also undergone. Major
achievements were the review of the budget and financial management system (a new system of
classification of expenditure which has been prepared and followed by MOET), reviewed and obtained
ceiling for programmes under MOET and achieved adequate weights to suit strategic priority areas.
Though MTEF has not been fully operational, it is expected that MOET will continue to use MTEF to
align sector budgets with priorities.

Education Sector Strategic Plan: The MOET started the process of developing sector strategic plan in
2001. However, the ministry and development partners are of the view that the plan needs further review to
strengthen its status as the long-term sector strategy of the country.

Sector Wide Approach Planning (SWAP): The Ministry has also started campaigning to development
partners the idea of SWAP. The Ministry further took an initiative and visited on a study tour two African
countries (Uganda and Zambia) to learn more about SWAP. It is expected that MOET will continue with
the idea.

4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs BY COMPONENT

In overall the main contributions of the ESPD II Phase I have been:
o        The construction of 392 classrooms and associated facilities such kitchens, stores and
         administration blocks plus supply of furniture to 56       primary schools in Lesotho
o        The construction of the School Supply Unit warehouse and offices
o        Construction of one (1) teacher resource centre in Qacha's nek and special repairs to 10 other
         resource centres in the districts.
o        Rehabilitation of students' hostels at the Lesotho College of Education (LCE) originally National
         Teacher Training College.
o        Provision of staff development training (short-term and long-term training) to officers of the



                                                     - 41 -

        Ministry
o       Start of the DTEP with 750 enrolled student teachers
o       In-service training of 7500 teachers at both primary and secondary schools in various subjects
        nationally
o       Capacity building in terms of long-term training to numerous Ministerial Officers
o       The award of 24,799 bursaries to orphans and needy learners at both primary and secondary in
        Lesotho.

4.1. COMPONENT 1: ECCD

Output 1:National Policy Framework for ECCD Established and Operational

The ECCD draft policy has been developed and was completed in 2000. In 2003, the draft policy was
reviewed to incorporate the concept of "integrated approach to programming".

Output 2: ECCD Curriculum Designed And Disseminated

National ECCD Curriculum was developed and translated into Sesotho. The national curriculum is
intended to address issues of quality and maintenance of standards in ECCD provision. The curriculum has
also been disseminated to the ten (10) districts through workshops.

Output 3: Training Programme Developed for ECCD Trainers, Teachers and Providers

A study on Needs Assessment for ECCD training programme for trainers, teachers and caregivers was
conducted and recommendations are implemented in phase II of ESDP II (Sept 2003-Dec 2007).
Negotiations to include the component of ECCD education within training programmes of the Lesotho
College of Education (LCE) are advanced.

Output 4: Design and Pilot Test Low Cost Community Based ECCD Programmes

The Home Based programme (started in 2001) has been expanded to cover two more districts Leribe and
Mohale'sHoek and 8 bases have now been established. This has led to an increase in the numbers of
children enrolled in the Home Based programme.

4.2. Component 2: Primary and Secondary Education

Output 1. Integrated Curriculum and Assessment Policy framework:
NCDC and ECoL reviewed existing Curriculum and Assessment (C & A) policies in consultation with
stakeholders. However, the consolidation of these policies into an integrated framework has been carried
over to the second phase. Therefore, revision and implementation of C&A packages for all levels will be
done in the second phase as well.

Output 2: Strengthening teacher development and support system
The main objective here was to increase LCE's capacity to produce Primary Diploma teachers through the
Distance Teacher Education Programme (DTEP). This program was launched in January 2002. It is
expected that the first 500 Diploma teachers will graduate in 2005 from the programme. Thereafter the
programme is expected to graduate at least 250 teachers annually.




                                                     - 42 -

Support System: Review system of school inspection and Strengthen the Field and Central
Inspectorate

The Field and Central Inspectorates, Primary In-Service Education Programme and the School Advisory
Programme have been reviewed and the Ministry is in the process of implementing the recommendations.
55 Education Officers and District Resource Teachers have been trained in School Financial Management;
eleven (11) officers (10 from field and 1 from central inspectorate) have undergone long-term training and
obtained Master of Education degrees.

Support System: Improve Coordination of continuous in-service programs and implement annually
from 2000

When attempts to establish the coordinating committees to monitor the delivery of a continuous in-service
programme, it became clear that the success of the activity is highly dependent on the revised roles of the
inspector-in-service and co-ordinator PIEP.

Output 3: Provide additional facilities to schools
Provision of additional facilities in primary schools as well as construction of new primary schools was
done. Additional civil works were also carried to upgrade educational resources and teachers' college.

Free Primary Education ­ Provision of Textbooks and Stationery

A total of 15.3 million Maloti worth of core textbooks in English, Mathematics, Agriculture, and Social
Sciences have been procured and are distributed to schools.

Output 4: Strengthening School level Management
School boards have been established for 90% of all secondary schools. A training programme and modules
were developed by a team of MOET officers. 96 percent of the approved school boards have been trained
in their functions and roles in school management. Further, a consultancy on the Rationalisation of fees has
been conducted and reports submitted.

At primary school level, all advisory and management committees have been trained. An independent
evaluation report confirmed that the training offered was effective.

Output 5: Development and Initiation of TEBP
The bursary scheme has gained much momentum nationally. The scheme has been expanded to all districts
and twelve bursary officers have been recruited to be placed at the districts to coordinate the activity. The
Ministry has also developed posters, brochures, and application forms. To date 24,799 scholarships have
been awarded to orphans and other needy children in the country. However, the first criteria were too open
and the program became cumbersome for the Ministry to meet all demands. The criteria has been revised to
accommodate double orphaned children as first priority, single orphan whose remaining parent is
chronically ill, a child whose parent or guardian has severe disabilities that hinder him or her to earn a
living, abandoned child whose parents whereabouts are not known, out of school child, for instance
herd-boy or servant girl. The budget allocation method has also been revised and will be by district
depending on the population in each district. Bursary application database has also been developed to
enable management and efficient operation of the scheme.

4.3. Component 3: Technical Vocational Education And Training (TVET)




                                                    - 43 -

The skills needs assessment is being implemented in the three selected industries: Construction, Hotel
Management and Electrical Engineering. The Technical and Vocational Training (TVT) Board has been
inaugurated and is meeting on agreed schedule. Tripartite arrangements are now operational with industrial
curriculum advisory committees meeting and deliberating on curriculum issues, latest technologies,
examinations standards, specific occupational training needs and skills proficiencies. A Vocational
Qualifications Framework that is commensurate with the regional settings and guidelines is being
developed. One staff member is under a long-term training

TVET managed to draft TVET policy during this phase and is expecting to complete it, together with the
TVET Act, sometime in May or June this year. Unfortunately, much of TVET effort during this phase
failed and TVET key performance indicators have not been met. Factors that contributed to the
unsatisfactory performance include lack of TVET reform champion in the country, lack of long-term
technical assistance and focus on TVET since FPE. Besides the complexity of TVET reform was originally
underrated. However, the progress made by TVET during the last quarter of the project illustrates the
capability and hope that TVET can still achieve the set objectives.

4.4. Component 4:Non Formal Education (NFE)

Output 1: NFE policy prepared and approved by GOL and operational
NFE draft policy is being developed and is now being revised. After the revision it will be forwarded for
approval to the ministry.

Output 2: NFE institutional structures streamlined:
The NFE proposed structure is also included in the draft policy to be approved.

Output 3: Staff capacity of NFE strengthened:
20 Literacy resource teachers (LRTs) and Literacy Campaign Coordinator were engaged during the
project. An impact assessment by an independent consultant indicates that the programme is making
significant contributions to the improvement of literacy in the pilot districts.

Output 4: Basic community needs identified and priorities set
This focused of the output was redesigned and emphasis was put on skills training. Pilot has already started
in two districts. Practical skills training, development of training modules, and training workshops took
place and about 570 learners were trained on various skills. Exhibition of end products was held and the
results were satisfactory. An evaluation study conducted on this, is almost complete.

4.5. Component 5:MOE Institutional Reform

Output 1: Align budget allocations with sector priorities
A Public Expenditure Review (PER) of the Education Sector was carried out. The PER revealed that
sectoral allocations are biased towards tertiary (especially University) education. By comparison to other
low-income SADC countries, Lesotho was found to be supporting tertiary at 30% of its recurrent budget
compared to only 20% in SADC countries. At the time of conducting the PER in 2001, support to primary
was 38% compared to between 50 and 60% in other SADC countries.

Introduction of a new budgeting tool, a Medium-term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) in 2003/2004 fiscal
year of GOL has led to an improvement of the budgeting system and it also led to preparation of a sector
wide strategic plan with priorities being clearly spelled out. The MTEF framework offers a forum to
rationalize longer-term allocation of public resources.


                                                      - 44 -

Output 2: Increasing efficiency of financial resource utilization
The financial management system has improved greatly in that payments are now processed promptly and
reconciliation of accounts done on a monthly basis. The counterpart account is run directly by the Project.
The Project has also continuously received clean audit reports.

Output 3: Implement an enhanced Management Information System (MIS)
An EMIS system was procured through the recruitment of consultants. However the system did not meet
the requirements of MOET. As a result, Education statistics and reports have been delayed continuously
and targets have not been met. The MOET will be addressing these shortfalls during Phase 2.

Output 5: Establish and put in place a system of monitoring and evaluation
Due to lack of capacity in the Ministry, no system of monitoring and evaluation was put in place.

Output 6: Capacity building of MOET
A total of 87 officers from the Ministry underwent various training and study tour activities aimed at
enhancing their on the job performance.

5. Major Factors affecting the Implementation

The implementation of the project was initially delayed by 2 years due to absence of adequate technical
capacity at the Planning Unit of the Ministry. The project was therefore rated unsatisfactory. However, the
Ministry took remedial action and implementation process was set on track.

The absence of a donor coordination mechanism and a SWAP process that ties the MOETs strategic plan
with Development Partners' support means that Phase 1 of the project was not well integrated with other
projects. The Ministry found itself having to deal with multiple requirements and reporting, adding
unnecessary burden to project implementation.

6.Sustainability

Capacity development for MOET programmes will still remain the key in ensuring sustainability in the
longer term.

The issue of sharing of educational resources in the districts should be put into practice. An important link
between primary, secondary, NFE, TVET, and DTEP will be crucial in ensuring effective and efficient
utilization of district resources and facilities.

For sustainability of effective and efficient school level management system, the Ministry realises the
importance of the continuity of proper training of the school boards. Training of school level management
has strengthened relationships with the churches/ proprietors, school heads, teachers and parents.
Ownership has been build among school communities.

Positive strides have been realized in areas of budgeting whereby a new budgeting tool has been introduced
and ESDPII Phase II has build on this. The Sector wide Strategic Plan is in place and it is going to form a
basis for which Development Partners pledge their support and it is going to enable smooth coordination
and direction of support where there is dire need.

Linkages have been established with collaborating ministries and stakeholders especially during


                                                      - 45 -

development of policies.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending

The lending instrument was flexible enough for the Ministry to utilize the resources in line with its planned
activities.

7.2 Supervision
The Bank carried out supervision missions every six months and would complete Aide Memoirs of which
recommendations were implemented and progress was realized. Although the Task Manager was changed,
the Bank team maintained a close relationship with the Borrower and carried out time- to- time discussions
with the Ministry of Education and Training authorities in any areas that required decision-making.
Supervision mission teams would comprise technical expertise worldwide in areas that required specific
competence.

However, the support by the Bank in three areas would have required closer attention. The first is the issue
of strengthening the Planning Unit. While the Bank continued to raise this matter, a clear definition of what
was expected by it was not given and the Ministry still remains in limbo. Second, there still remains very
little technical support by the Bank in the procurement area. There is also inconsistency in the application
of the procurement rules and procedures in the approval of contract awards by the Procurement Division of
the World Bank due to high turnover of the Specialists. Third, the Bank Specialist on civil works should
have provided adequate support on the systems and procedures of field work quality control as
continuously requested by MOET.

7.3 Overall Bank performance
Overall Bank supervision is ranked satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation
The Borrower's overall performance during preparation, design, and appraisal was satisfactory as all
sub-sectors affected were always involved throughout the stages. Also given that this was not the first time
the Bank supported the Education Sector, the preparation process became smooth because of the wealth of
experience and knowledge of World Bank procedures. To design components and sub-components also
became easier because the borrower already through ESDPI knew particular areas where the education
system needed strengthening.

7.5 Government (GOL) implementation performance

7.6 Implementing Agency (Ministry of Education and Training)
Most activities started late in 2000 due to among other things lack of capacity by the implementing
sub-sectors and understaffing especially in the Planning Unit of the Ministry. This led to the project
completion date being extended to 31 December 2003.The project overall assessment is, however, ranked it
satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance
Overall the Borrowers performance is ranked satisfactory


                                                   - 46 -

8. Lessons Learnt


l The Home Based programme has increased and taught parents various income generating skills for the
   benefit of their families. In addition, participating parents have improved their parenting skills even
   fathers are now involved in upbringing of their children.

l The importance of harmonizing efforts in curriculum, testing and assessment for an improved system
   of quality control cannot be ignored. In addition the baseline study on literacy and numeracy for
   primary class 3 and 6 has revealed that curriculum and assessment interventions are needed in the
   classroom before children can sit for Primary school leaving examination.

l The Ministry has further learnt that constant reviews of policy issues are necessary and that quality
   monitoring requires focused inspectorates and advisory services.

l Evaluation of training of school committees for Primary indicated that more stakeholder consultations
   and involvement is needed to ensure that policies are understood and policy guidelines result in
   implementation of such policies and roles/duties are discharged. This would ensure greater community
   participation in various educational services especially when the Ministry will be implementing the
   `Community Approach' to classroom construction. For secondary School Boards, this has helped the
   Ministry, proprietors of schools and the community have better understanding of the Education Act and
   have total commitment to the education of Lesotho.

l The Bursary Scheme of Targeted Equity Based Program (TEBP) was supposed to be started as a pilot
   in certain districts before expanding to all ten districts. This has taught the ministry that a clear plan
   and criteria for undertaking programs of this nature should be in place and adhered to.

l Cooperation of the external assistance provides leverage, coordination and focus to project activities
   which may be politically sensitive. However, coordination and changes in available donor funding can
   significantly impact project implementation.

l Unless capacity and resources are applied to strengthen monitoring and evaluation, more external
   resources may have to be expended in order to get information needed

l In all cases of ESDP II Phase I, there was adequate leadership. Without leadership the likelihood of
   effective use of resources is minimal, and investment is ill advised until such time this lack is
   addressed.

l Clear procurement and financial regulations plans and monitoring system are essential for an effective
   implementation process. The Bank must be consistent in the procurement advice it provides to
   Borrowers. Clear communication on this matter will help avoid delays and confusion.

l The supervision process of the Bank must be active and involved not confusing. Assisting the
   government to meet planned objectives entails constant interaction and external consultation. The
   implementing programmes should be aware of this to help maintain momentum and direction of the
   project. Mutual concern and consultation is not interference. There must be transparency of the Bank
   operations to the implementers.

l Staffing is also an important aspect of implementation. Development efforts are much more difficult
   without adequate staffing of these units.




                                                      - 47 -

- 48 -

