Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18388-LSO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15 MILLION (US$21.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE
OF THE
EDUCATION SECTOR PROGRAM
March 25, 1999
Human Development 1
Country Department 1
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(February 18, 1999)
Currency Unit    =    Lesotho Maloti
L6.095          =    US$1.0
US$0. 1641      =    L1.0
US$1.4032             SDR 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
COSC          Cambridge Overseas School Certificate
DTEP          Distance Teacher Education Program
ECD           Early Childhood Development
ECOL          Examination Council of Lesotho
EFU           Education Facilities Unit
EMIS          Education Management Information System
ESDP          Education Sector Development Project
EU            European Union
GOL           Government of Lesotho
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA           International Development Association
JC            Junior Certificate
LCE           Lesotho College of Education
MODP          Ministry of Development Planning
MOE           Ministry of Education
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MTEF          Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NCDC          National Curriculum Development Center
NFE           Non-formal Education
PASPU         Project Accounts Section of the Planning Unit
PER           Public Expenditure Review
PERSG         Public Expenditure Review Steering Group
PIM           Project Implementation Manual
PSLE          Primary School Leaving Examination
PU            Planning Unit
TVET          Technical and Vocational Education Training
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
UPE           Universal Primary Education
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
Vice President              Callisto Madavo
Country Director            Pamela Cox
Sector Manager              Ruth Kagia
Task Team Leader            Dzingai Mutumbuka



Lesotho
Second Education Sector Development Project
Table of Contents
A. PROGRAM  PURPOSE AND DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .............................................                                                                      2
1. PROGRAM   PURPOSE  AND  PROGRAM   PHASING  ...................................................................2
2. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICA/TORS .........                                                                     .............4
B.  STRATEGIC   CONTEXT  ....................................................................4
1.  SECTOR-RELATED  CAS  GOAL  SUPPORTED  BY  TIE  PROJECI .....................4.........................4
2.  MAIN  SECTOR  ISSUES AND  GOL  STRATEGY  ....................................................................5
3. SECTOR ISSUES To BE ADDRESSED BY TIIE PROGRAM AND STRATEGIC CIIOICES .............. 11
C. PROJECT  DESCRIPTION   SUMMARY  .......................... .........................................                                                         12
I. PROJECT COMPONENTS AND PERFORMANCE TRIGGERS FOR SUBSEQUJENT CREDITS ..........  12
2. KEY POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTI ED BY TIIE PROJECT ..........                                                                ............. 1 7
3.  BENEFITS AND  T ARGET  POPULATION ...................................................................1  8
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ................................................ 19
D.  PROJECT  RATIONALE ................................................................... 21
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERFD AND RFASONS FOR REJECTION ............................. 21
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT
AGENCIES ...................................................................                                                                            22
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN .......................................... 23
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP .......................................... 25
5.  VALUE  ADDED  OF BANK  SUPPORT  IN  THIS PROJECT ......................................................... 25
E. SUMMARY  PROJECT ANALYSIS ...................................................................                                                              26
1.  ECONOMIC  AND  FINANCIAL ................................................................... 26
2.  TECHNICAL ...................................................................                                                                       27
3.  INSTITUTIONAL ...................................................................                                                                  28
4. SOCIAL ...................................................................                                                                           28
5.  ENVIRONMENTAL  ASSESSMENT ................................................................... 29
6.  PARTICIPATORY  APPROACH ................................................................... 29
F.  SUSTAINABILITY   AND   RISKS ...................................................................                                                          29
1.  SUSTAINABILITY ...................................................................                                                                 29
2.  CRITICAL  RISKS  ................................................................... 31
G. MAIN  CREDIT CONDITIONS ...................................................................                                                                 32
1.  COND ITIONS    FOR  PROJ                     ECT EFFECIIVENESS ................................................................... 32
2.    CO V EN A N TS    ...................................................................                                                             32
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION                                                              ............................................. 33
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES                                                             ............................................. 34



Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.   Estimated Project Costs for Phase I
Annex 4.   Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 5.   Financial Management Action Plan
Annex 6.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al. Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Annex 7.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.   Documents in Project File
Annex 9.   Status of Bank Group Operations in Lesotho
Annex 10. Country at a Glance
Annex 11. Letter of Sector Policy
Map - IBRD Reference Number 29948



Lesotho
Second Education Sector Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Lesotho Country Department
Date: March 25, 1999                         Task Team Leader: Dzingai Mutumbuka
Country Director Pamela Cox                  Sector Manager: Ruth Kagia
Project ID: 56141       Sector: Education    Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan   Program of Targeted        1X]  Yes    [   No
Intervention:
Program Financing Data
APL               Indicative Financing         Estimated Implementation       Borrower
Plan                      Period (Bank FY)
IDA       Others      Total    Commitment    Closing Date
Date
US$m    %    US$m    US$m
APL I   Credit    21             5.7      26.7     June 1999    December 2002   GOL
APL 2   Credit    20             20       40       July 2002     December 2006  GOL
APL 3   Credit    20             20        40      July 2006    June 2011        GOL
Total              61           45.7    106.7
Note: Timing and credit amounts for APL2 and APL3 are indicative only, and will be determined during the
implementation of APL 1.
Project Financing Data             [I Loan   [X] Credit         [I Guarantee      [I Other
[Specifyl
For Credits:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 21.0 million/SDR 15.0 million
Proposed terms:                     [  Multicurrency      [XI Single currency, US dollars
Grace period (years): 10 [I   Standard Variable   [   Fixed         []   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Up to 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source:                     Local              Foreign               Total
Government                     5.7                                      5.7
IDA                                            21.0                 21.0
ADB                                             12.8                 12.8
DFID                                             4.2                 4.2
GTZ                                             0.26                0.26
Irish Aid                                         2.2                  2.2
Total        5.7                40.5                 46.2
Borrower: Kingdom of Lesotho
Borrowing agency: Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Implementing agency: Ministry of Education (MOE)
Estimated disbursements
(BankFYtUS$M):                       2000     2001         2002      2003
Annual 4.0       7.0          8.0       2.0
Cumulative 4.0      11.0        19.0       21.0
Project implementation period: 1999-2002  Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/99 Expected closing date: 12/31/02



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                              Page 2
A: PROGRAM PURPOSE AND DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Program purpose and program phasing
Lesotho is a mountainous country surrounded by the Republic of South Africa. It has a population of
approximately 2.0 million people, many of whom are geographically isolated and have difficulty
accessing basic social services. Lesotho has two main resources: its human capital and its water.
Traditionally, Lesotho has depended on the exportation of its labor to South Africa, especially to the gold
mines. At one time, miners' remittances accounted for as much as 30 percent of GNP and were a
particularly important household resource in rural areas. However, employment opportunities in the
South African mines are significantly declining for several reasons, including increased mechanization,
high unemployment within South Africa itself and weakening gold prices. Through the Highland Water
Project, Lesotho has recently started hamessing its water resources for export to Gauteng, the densely
populated industrial heartland of South Africa.
Lesotho's education system consists of seven years of primary education, five years of secondary
education (three years of junior secondary and two years of senior secondary) and four to six years of
higher education. Primary education is conducted in Sesotho for the first three years and mainly in
English in Standards 4 through 7. Post-primary education is entirely conducted in English. The MOE
offers some non-formal education courses through the Lesotho Distance Teaching Center (LDTC) and by
the National University of Lesotho's (NUL) Institute of Extra-Mural Studies (IEMS). The Lesotho
College of Education (LCE) trains primary and junior secondary teachers, while the Faculty of Education
at NUL trains senior secondary education teachers.
The Ministry of Education (MOE) has responsibility for the administrative, financial and academic
control of the formal education and training system. It is therefore charged with the following important
tasks: training and payment of teachers; formal approval of teachers' appointments, dismissals and
deployment; administration of exams; review and authorization of curricula; school inspection; and
regulation of the opening and closing of schools. Traditionally, the Government of Lesotho (GOL) has
shared the responsibility of financing education with the local private sector (mainly through students'
fees) and direct contributions from abroad, whether in cash or kind, made by the churches involved in the
delivery of education. As the latter has declined in recent years, funding of capital expenditures by
bilateral and multilateral donor agencies has increased substantially. These agencies channel the funds
through the GOL budget. In 1995, GOL spent 7 percent of GNP on the education sector.
Compared to many other Sub-Saharan African countries, Lesotho has developed a strong education
system with above-average indicators by regional standards. In 1996, the primary school net enrollment
rate was 68 percent. By 1996, secondary school net enrollment rate had risen to 31 percent, up from 24
percent in 1990. However, the system faces a number of problems, including inefficiency, inequity and
low quality.
The 12-year program
The second Education Sector Development Project (ESDP II) is the first phase of a 12-year program to
assist the GOL in achieving its goal: to create an education system which produces more and better
educated Basotho, who will then become actively employed regionally or locally and participate in
community leadership roles. The program will focus on four priority areas as identified by the GOL:
(a) early childhood development (ECD), (b) primary and secondary education, (c) technical and
vocational education and training (TVET), and (d) non-formal education (NFE).



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                      Page 3
Given the timeframne required to implement sustainable reforrns in education and to build capacity in
targeted sub-sectors prior to investrnent, the Adaptable Program Loan (APL) will be used as the lending
instrument. The GOL selected the APL because improving the priority areas outlined above will require a
long-term, concerted effort to change behaviors and attitudes. The APL, to be implemented in three
phases, will provide the flexibility and time required to implement long-lasting reforms. The key
performance indicators for the complete 12-year program are given below:
Program Goal                             Key Program Performance Indicators'
(1999-2011)
More Basotho better    1. ECD coverage expanded to reach 50% of Basotho children between ages of 3-5
educated, actively       years old by January 2011
employed both
regionally and locally   2. All children of primary school age enrolled by January 2011
and participating in
community leadership   3. At least 40% of school age children enrolled in secondary school by January 2011
roles
4 . Performance at the primary and secondary school level in standardized national
assessment of numeracy and literacy increased by 15% between December 1999
and December 2010 (after adjustment for changes in cohort composition)
5 . The number of Basotho employed in the formal sector in Lesotho and the regional
labor market increased by 15% by December 2010
___________________   6. Literacy rate raised to 80% by January 2011
This program will broadly support the GOL's strategy in the sector as reflected in its three-year rolling
plans. Under Phase I ("the project") of the 12-year program, investments will mostly support primary and
secondary education (see page 4 for Phase I performance indicators). To underpin investmnents in
Phase II, the project will support extensive analysis, especially in the areas of ECD, TVET and NFE.
Similarly, analytical work completed in Phase II will underpin investment decisions for Phase III.
Program Phases                                Investment Areas
Phase I           *  Developing policy options and capacity building in ECD; strengthening ECD
(June 1999-          linkages to primary education
December 2002)    *  At the primary and secondary school level, increasing access and equity;
developing policy options; and improving quality of education
. Developing policy options and building capacity in TVET
. Developing policy options and building capacity in NFE
. Implementing and strengthening institutional reforns
. Undertaking a public expenditure review (PER); making budget allocations based
on a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
Phase II          .  Implementing a comprehensive program of ECD with clearly defined roles for
(tentative:          GOL and other providers
July 2002-        .  Continuing support to primary and secondary education
December 2006)    *  Revitalizing TVET programs
. Strengthening the delivery of NFE
*  Deepening institutional reforms
Phase III         .  Strengthening the delivery of ECD to reach 50% of 3-5 year olds
(tentative:       .  Continuing support to the primary level to achieve universal primary education
July 2006 -           (UPE) and to secondary education to achieve 40% net enrollment
June 2011)        *  Building upon Phase I and II investments in TVET and NFE
. Completion of institutional reforms targeted by program
These are long-term, end-of-program indicators. See Page 4 for three-year project performance indicators.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                       Page 4
2. Project development objective and key performance indicators
The project (1999-2002) will focus on increasing access and equity at the primary school level in order to
lay the foundation for achieving universal primary education (UPE) over the program period (1999-2011),
and on improving the quality of primary and secondary education. Furthermore, the project will develop
the policy and institutional frameworks for ECD, TVET and NFE. The development objective and key
performance indicators for the project are:
Project Development                       Key Project Performance Indicators
Objective                                Phase I: June 1999 - December 2002
Increased number of    I . National ECD policy framework approved by December 2001
Basotho benefiting
from the education    2. Net enrollment rate in Standards 1-7 increased from 68% to 73% by December
system, graduating with  2002*
skills enabling them to   3. National policy framework for primary education curriculum and assessment in
meet labor market        place; national assessment for prmary education designed and implemented by
demiand                  December 2001
4. Advocacy campaign on out-of-school children launched by December 2000
5. Policy work on secondary education expansion initiated by December 2000
6. MTEF used consistently; 70% of education recurrent budget (increased from 68%)
allocated for and expended on primary and secondary education for fiscal year
April 2001 and onward*
7. At least 75% of School Advisory and Management Committees for primary and
secondary schools functioning satisfactorily by December 2001 (assessed
independently)*
8. Technical and Vocational Education Act in place by December 2000*
9.  A new management structure for TVET, made up of representatives of
employers, employees and the GOL, established and operational by March 2001
10. Qualifications framework and enhanced accreditation system for TVET in place
by December 2001
11. A financial management and performance monitoring system for TVET in place
by June 2002*
12. NFE Act approved; operational guidelines issued and options defined by
December 2001*
* These 6 indicators will also be used as triggers for moving to Phase II.
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1)
CAS Document Number: Report No. 1775 1-LSO  Date of latest CAS discussion: June 4, 1998
The objective of the Bank's CAS for Lesotho for the next two years (FY99-00) is to support theGOL's
strategy of poverty reduction and its efforts to sustain macroeconomic performance. As stated in the
CAS, "the Bank will support the GOL effort of poverty reduction through investing in human resource
development: strengthen education and on-the-job/vocational training to deal with Lesotho's severe
capacity constraints and to make the work force more adaptable to labor-market changes in and outside
the country."



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                               Page 5
For Lesotho to be competitive and export skilled labor within the region, as well as meet local labor
market needs, it must carefully develop and implement policies and plans in education and training. The
proposed project will contribute to the goal of human resource development by implementing a national
program of ECD, increasing access and equity and enhancing efficiency and quality in primary and
secondary education, revitalizing TVET to produce a work force which meets the needs of the economy,
and improving the quality of and delivery mechanisms for NFE programs.
2. Main sector issues and GOL strategy
The GOL has made progress towards its stated goals for education and training on several fronts through
the ongoing Education Sector Development Project (ESDP 1), which began in 1992 and is scheduled to
close in June 1999. The main activities of that project are summarized below.
To expand access to education, the ongoing project
* constructed and furnished over 1,000 primary school classrooms;
* helped build 12 student hostels at the LCE, which in turn allowed the college to expand its enrollment
capacity; and
* provided the NUL with a science laboratory block, which will facilitate the production of graduates in
mathematics and science.
To improve quality, the ongoing project
* provided in-service and pre-service teacher training
* hired 560 new primary school teachers, with particular emphasis on lowering the pupil:teacher ratio
in Standards 1-3;
* supplied primary schools with science kits
* financed the hiring of 20 Education Officers and 80 District Resource Tutors;
* strengthened the Inspectorate; and
* initiated a review of the primary and secondary school curriculum.
To improve school management, the project
* streamlined the Ministry of Education's (MOE's) management structure;
* built one District Resource Center (DRC) in each of the ten district;
* supported the decentralization of management to the district level and to the school level by helping
to establish School Advisory and Management Committees.
2.1 Main Sector Issues
Despite these positive developments, many challenges remain: access to and quality of ECD services vary
greatly across the country; participation rates in primary education have dropped; repetition rates are still
high although they are falling; secondary school drop-out rates are high; illiteracy is high; the TVET sub-
sector is underutilized, inefficient and supply-driven; andsectoral expenditures have increased without
commensurate increases in outcomes, particularly at higher levels of education.
Early Childhood Development (ECD)
Uneven ECD Coverage and Quality. As in many African countries, the pressures of modem life in
Lesotho are wearing down the traditional system of child care. Migration and wage employment have
weakened the extended family, previously the main provider of child care. As a result, the prevalence of
day care centers and pre-schools has grown quickly, particularly in urban andperi-urban areas. In 1992,
some 800 ECD centers in Lesotho served 10,000 children, significantly up from the 4,000 children
covered by 200 centers in 1985. Despite this rapid growth in coverage, the overwhelming majority of



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                  Page 6
Basotho children do not participate in ECD programs. As with formnal education, ECD coverage remains
particularly low for children in mral and poverty-stricken mountain areas.
ECD could contribute substantially to the achievement of UPE. Effective ECD programs have a catalytic
effect on increasing enrollment. As evidenced by worldwide and African empirical data, ECD programs
also improve efficiency at the primary level by enhancing the readiness of children to learn, which in turn
reduces drop-out and repetition, especially in lower primary. A stronger start, particularly for poor
children in rural areas, increases the likelihood that children will begin the education cycle at the
appropriate age.
Financing of ECD. With no formal system of ECD in Lesotho, communities or private individuals run
the existing centers. The quality of these services varies greatly, as does access to them. Although the
MOE does not directly provide ECD services, in 1985 it began to play an important role in planning,
regulating and monitoring. The MOE established an ECD Unit to improve the effectiveness and
utilization of community-run and private ECD centers.
The GOL faces substantial financial challenges as it strengthens its commitment to primary and secondary
education. Therefore, for the GOL to take on the responsibility of providing ECD services would prove
an unmanageable burden on an already constrained system. It is therefore critical for the MOE to
continue encouraging the expansion of community-based programs. By defining its own role as one of
regulator, the MOE can have a serious impact on the quality of ECD. With the MOE providing training
and monitoring, the ECD system can be expanded in both a high-quality and financially sustainable
manner.
Primary and Secondary Education
Although Lesotho's education system is relatively strong compared to those of many other Sub-Saharan
African countries, it faces serious challenges at both the primary and secondary levels.
Declining Enrollment. Both gross and net enrollment rates have fallen in recent years. In the early 1 990s,
the primary net enrollment rate was 75 percent. By 1996, this had fallen to 68 percent. The reasons for
this trend are not entirely clear, but anecdotal evidence suggests it may be linked to two recent
developments. First, the declining employment opportunities for Basotho men in the South African
mines has increased the prevalence of poverty, particularly in the rural areas. Rural families have
traditionally relied heavily on miners' remittances. Without these earnings, fanilies paying school fees
face an even greater financial burden than before. The second development which may have hurt national
enrollment rates began in 1994, when the Government of South Africa eliminated school fees.
Subsequently, a growing number of Basotho families have sent their children to attend school for free
while living with relatives in South Africa rather than pay tuition fees in Lesotho.
Constrained Access and Late Entry. Although the net primary enrollment rate in 1996 was 68 percent, the
gross enrollment rate was more than 100 percent, reflecting mainly the large overage enrollment. Many
children enroll late because of access difficulties. Access to education is especially hard for children from
remote mountain and other poverty-stricken areas2 When the location of a school requires a child to
travel great distances, parents often delay enrollment until they feel comfortable that the child can
physically manage the long walk through isolated areas of difficult terrain. Many children in these
regions lack warm clothing and shoes, thus making it even more difficult for them to reach school in the
cold winter months.
2 Current statistics collected and analyzed by MOE do not capture the extent of inequality. This weakness will be
corrected under this project. Some detail can be found in the Lesotho Poverty Assessment, World Bank, 1995.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                 Page 7
Herd boys represent one of several groups which have typically enrolled late, if they enroll at all. The
employment of herd boys, an inherited and enduring tradition, is widespread in Lesotho but no one knows
their exact numbers. Spending weeks at a time alone with their herds, the boys travel long distances away
from their villages. This time away from home results in missed opportunity for education, poor
socialization and inadequate nutrition. In the past, there was no age limit for enrollment in primary
school. Herd boys typically began work at a young age and continued into their early teens, at which
point some would enroll in school. As a result, the herd boys were much older than their classmates, and
these age differences in the classroom created social tensions. In an attempt to address these tensions, the
GOL implemented a policy of non-registration of overage children. As a result, when herd boys complete
their duties in their early teens, the possibility of enrolling in school is closed off and they are excluded
from formal education.
Weak Quality and Internal Efficiency. Problems with quality create inefficiencies in the system. In 1996,
20 percent of primary pupils repeated a standard and about 7.5 percent dropped out at every primary
standard. This means that for every 100 students who enter Standard 1, only 51 eventually complete
Standard 7. The quality of primary education suffers from several problems, including a shortage of
qualified teachers and overcrowded classrooms. In 1996, the average primary pupil-teacher ratio was
48:1, and 54 percent of the teaching force was underqualified or unqualified. In the same year, the
average primarv pupil-classroom ratio was 76:1. Quality also suffers because of the lack of capacity in
managemnent at the school level; many school heads and committees are untrained for their jobs.
At the secondary level, enrollment is not low by regional standards, but the secondary education system
faces serious problems of wastage and low quality. In 1996, the transition rate from primary Standard 7
to the first year of secondary (Form A) was high (70 percent) and net secondary enrollment was 31
percent. But for every 100 children who entered Form A, only 10 students graduated from Form E.
Some 33 percent of students dropped out between Forms A and C; another 24 percent dropped out
between Forms D and E; and the transition rate was 64 percent from Form C to Form D. As for
performance, 71 percent of the pupils who sat for the Junior Certificate (JC) exam passed, but only 34
percent of those who sat for the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (COSC) passed. Pass rates were
especially low in key subjects such as mathematics. However, trends in student achievement in recent
years are not clear because there are no standardized attainment tests administered regularly.
Demand and Supply of teachers. Primary and secondary education sub-sectors will require additional
teachers as GOL works to expand access and improve quality. This is not anticipated to present a
problem, primarily due to two recent developments: (a) teachers serving in rural, isolated areas now
receive a monthly hardship allowance of R250. This has proved successful in retaining teachers in the
mountainous areas and will be maintained; and (b) employment opportunities for teachers in South Africa
have decreased significantly because South Africa has a surplus of teachers and is currently retrenching
many teachers.
Limited HIV/AIDS Information. Lesotho is among the over 50 percent of Sub-Saharan African countries
with high HIV/AIDS prevalence rates. Furthermore, its neighbors have some of the highest prevalence
rates in the world: in South Africa the rate is 13 percent for adults; in Botswana, 25 percent; in
Zimbabwe, 26 percent; in Namibia, 20 percent; and in Swaziland, nearly 19 percent. Lesotho, with a rate
of over 8 percent, is catching up quickly. The longstanding tradition of migrant labor also placesBasotho
in a high-risk group. School-age children and youth represent a vulnerable group which should be
targeted for prevention messages. However, a recent study conducted jointly by UNICEF and the MOE
indicated that the awareness rate was very low, and students complained of a lack of information on
HIV/AIDS .



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                  Page 8
Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET)
Given Lesotho's unique geographic situation and limited employment opportunities, the GOL recognizes
the importance of framing its training policies in order to produce workers with marketable skills that will
make them competitive in the regional labor markets as well as at home. The TVET system could play a
crucial role in the economic and social development of Lesotho; expansion of this sub-sector is thus a
priority of GOL. However, there are several problems with the current system which must first be
addressed, including (a) its supply-driven approach, which is due to weak linkage to the labor market; and
(b) its need for sustainable financing.
Weak Labor Market Links. The existing, supply-driven system is not in a position to respond to national
or regional labor market needs. TVET institutions have weak links with industry and offer limited
courses of low quality. Employers generally report dissatisfaction with the graduates. Foreign investors,
especially in the fast-growing textile and leather industries, often resort to using expatriate technicians
rather than hiring Basotho. Therefore, job creation does not always benefit the local population.
Although the demand for semi-skilled and skilled labor is growing, many TVET graduates encounter
difficulties finding employment. This situation signifies the importance of strengthening links between
the training programns and the needs of the private sector.
Uncertain Sustainability. On the other hand, costs have increased substantially, thus raising questions
about sustainability. The current system, although small, is underutilized and enrollment stagnated over
the past decade. Although all TVET institutions charge fees, the existing system relies primarily on
financing from the GOL. The GOL should assess its capacity to provide sustainable finding for the sub-
sector and to reconsider the role of user charges. The government should also consider fostering a private
sector training market because it seems impossible to contemplate that a GOL-funded training sector
would grow fast enough to accommodate the skill needs of the economy.
Non-formal Education (NFE)
Unclear Policy Framework. Although schools are distributed throughout the country, access to schooling
is quite uneven. For example, 30 percent of the population in theSenqu Valley and mountain regions
have had no formal education, compared with 13 percent in Maseru and about 9 percent in other urban
areas. Although there has been no literacy survey in the last decade, almost one-third ofBasotho youth
and adults are reportedly illiterate, and fimctional illiteracy is estimated to be much highe?.
There is a demand for less-formal training and retraining amnong several disadvantaged groups including
herd boys not able to attend formal schools; youth who previously dropped out of the formal school
system and are looking for a second chance; and miners who have retumed from South Africa.
Unfortunately, NFE has been developed in a haphazard fashion with no coherent policy framework
guiding the provision and financing of such services. Lesotho needs to define priorities and policies for
the sub-sector. The country also needs to clarify the role of the public sector relative to the non-
governmental sectors and the role of the MOE relative to other ministries.
Sector Financing and Management
Skewed Intrasectoral Allocations. Total GOL recurrent expenditure on education increased during the
period of the ongoing project (1992-1999); about a third of all GOL recurrent expenditure now goes to
education and training. flowever, trends in sub-sectoral allocations are a concem. The share of public
expenditure going to the NUL has increased over recent years at the expense of primary and secondary
education. Despite efforts to contain costs at the NUL, unit costs in the tertiary sub-sector remain high.
Expenditure per tertiary student reached more than M45,000 in 1996/97. Corresponding unit costs per
The 1997 World Development Report reports particularly high female illiteracy in Lesotho (38%).



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                  Page 9
primary and secondary students were M384 and M1,33 1, respectively. Such unit costs indicate that the
expense of educating one NUL student is equivalent to educating 116 primary pupils or 34 secondary
students, a ratio that is high compared to neighboring countries4 These disparities imply that public
education financing needs to be more equitable and more cost-effective at the higher levels. The Planning
Unit within MOE plans and monitors capital expenditure for all MOE departments, but not recurrent
expenditure. As a result, monitoring of recurrent expenditure is rather weak. This perhaps explains the
recent trend in sub-sectoral allocation.
Challenges of Decentralization and School Governance. The Ministry began implementing its
decentralization plan by building District Resource Centers and legalizing School Advisory and
Management Committees. However, the roles and responsibilities of central officers versus field officers
are not clearly delineated. As a result, most decisions continue to be taken centrally at headquarters. For
the system to function efficiently, it will be necessary to spell out the roles and responsibilities of the
lower tiers of the management structure.
More than 90 percent of primary and 80 percent of secondary schools are legally owned by churches. In
the past, church secretaries were responsible for hiring, firing, deploying and disciplining teachers.
However, when church resources for financing recurrent and capital costs dried up, the GOL became
more involved and began providing grants for teachers' salaries, instructional materials and infrastructure.
The GOL clearly demonstrated its commitment to improving school governance by passing the Education
Act in 1995. This Act legally underpinned the agreement between the MOE and the churches to
collaborate in the delivery of education. It also provided for increased participation by parents and called
for all primary and secondary schools to establish School Advisory and Management Committees. These
comprise representatives from the MOE, churches and parents.
The Education Act has facilitated more parental involvement and has also facilitated commendable
progress in resolving the church/state conflict over the management of schools. However, much work
needs to be done to enforce the Act and to train school committees in their new roles. Additional efforts
are required to further define the appropriate roles for the churches and the state in the provision of
education.
Data Collection and Analysis. MOE has a long tradition of collecting school statistics annually.
However, it faces two major weaknesses: the outdated Education Management Information System
(EMIS) inefficiently collects data and the MOE has limited capacity to analyze and utilize the data.
Principals lack training in filling out the complex school survey form and lack an understanding about its
importance. As a result, they often either do not respond or else they provide inaccurate information
which arrives late in Maseru. Due to lack of capacity to analyze the data, the information is not used for
policy making and planning. Therefore, the recurrent budget is not aligned with sector priorities and
performance. The existing EMIS is also isolated from other information databases such as those holding
examinations and personnel records. Finally, the EMIS does not sufficiently capture information on
disadvantaged groups.
2.2 GOL Strategies
By employing the dual approach of (a) improving quality to keep children in school and (b) expanding
access for those out of school, the GOL, through the program, will move toward the ultimate goal of
achieving UPE by 2011. One strategy which the GOL is exploring is increasing demand by eliminating
school fees at the primary level. However, the GOL is aware that such a move has serious budgetary
implications and will require further analysis, consultation with all stakeholders and extensive planning.
4For example, Swaziland also heavily subsidizes university education. However, the comparable ratios indicate 47
primary students or 13 secondary students could be educated at the same cost as one tertiary student.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                Page 10
The MOE could overcome many obstacles by strengthening the technical and institutional capacity of its
own staff and institutions to plan, implement, monitor and evaluate programs. The GOL is fully aware of
this problem. It strives to improve the situation by instituting three-year rolling plans and by rallying
technical and financial support from the donor community. The latest three-year rolling plan identifies
ECD, primary and secondary education, TVET and NFE as its four major education priorities. The
govemment's sub-sectoral strategies include the following:
Early Childhood Development
* Expand ECD coverage, with emphasis on the integration of children with disabilities into regular
ECD centers
* Strengthen the MOE's role in planning, regulation and monitoring rather than direct delivery of
services
* Continue promoting community-based programs while strengthening the standards of health, safety
and nutrition of ECD centers
* Establish a national system of monitoring and supervision for ECD centers
Primary and Secondary Education
Expanding access, particularly for children in isolated, mountainous regions
* Reduce the repetition rate to below 10 percent
3 Maintain the pupil-teacher ratio of 48:1 at primary level
• Extend the basic education cycle to include the first three years of secondary education
• Conduct a feasibility study to determine the implications of a free and compulsory system of primary
education in Lesotho
• Expand access for children with disabilities by continuing to support an integrated approach to special
education
Strengthening school management
* Train school principals on how to implement new policies laid out in the Education Act 1995
* Train members of the Advisory School and Management Committees
* Train inspectors on their new role under a decentralized system
* Rationalize school fees and define clear guidelines for the determination and collection of fees
Improving quality
* Conduct a study on the short-terrn and long-term needs of the country for facilities
* Conduct a feasibility study on phasing out the Primary School Leaving Examination and identify
assessment alternatives
* Develop new syllabi for pilot-testing, and revise and disseminate them
* Upgrade and expand hostel facilities at the National Teachers Training College to permit entrance of
more students
* Provide additional training in early primary teaching methods for students at LCE
* Introduce part-time degree courses for teachers



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                              Page 11
Technical and Vocational Education and Training
*  The Technical Vocational Departrnent (TVD) of the MOE to formally assume the role of inspecting
TVET institutions
*  Conduct a policy review of TVET system to assess the feasibility ofTVD's playing a coordinating
role and establishing an "applications clearing house"
*  TVD to introduce the necessary structures to promote, monitor and maintain the apprenticeship
program
*  Explore methods for strengthening TVD relationship with local employers and develop clear policy
guidelines for TVD coordination
Non-formal Education
* NFE Office within the MOE to hold consultations with major NFE providers to discuss and agree
upon how to best coordinate NFE programs
* MOE to conduct a study which collates the programs of NFE providers in Lesotho, with an emphasis
on content, cost-benefit analysis, successes and constraints
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program and strategic choices
Through this program, the GOL aims to address the long-term development goal of strengthening
Lesotho's human development base and ultimately reducing poverty. In shaping the program, the GOL
has made the following strategic choices:
(a) it recognizes that a targeted approach is more likely to address the specific needs of the poorest
groups in isolated, impoverished regions, thus addressing the problem of equity of access to and quality
of education services
(b) it recognizes the need to assess, design, test and implement targeted approaches aimed at providing
educational opportunities for the poorest of the poor
(c) it recognizes the importance of forming a sound policy framework prior to direct investments and
therefore Phase I will support ECD, TVET and NFE strictly in policy formulation which will then
underpin investments to be provided in later phases
(d) it recognizes the important impact ECD can have on improving the readiness of children to enter
primary school at the appropriate age and also the substantial impact ECD has on leaming outcomes,
particularly in Standards 1-3, which in turn improves the efficiency of the primary sub-sector by reducing
repetition and drop-out rates
(e) it recognizes that in order to achieve UPE, it will need to expand the system's capacity to train
teachers, as well as upgrade the qualifications of serving teachers, particularly in the most isolated areas
(f) it promotes increased decentralization of school management by supporting higher levels of
community participation through the establishment and training of school committees, thereby providing
a means of collaboration between the state and the churches in the delivery of education and enhancing
community ownership in the provision of education
(g) it recognizes the importance of building capacity at the central level in order to ensure long-term
sustainability of the program and strengthens this by supporting appropriate recruitment, training and
monitoring and evaluation



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                             Page 12
(i) it recognizes the need to align allocations of public expenditure with GOL priorities for the sector
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project components and performance triggers for subsequent credits
1.1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description)
This three-year project will focus on four sector priorities: ECD, primary and secondary education, TVET
and NFE. Investments will begin immediately in key areas of the primary and secondary education
component. However, in the other three sub-sectors, the project will initially finance only policy
formulation and capacity building activities.
Early Childhood Development
As part of the comprehensive quality improvement strategy, the project will support the development of a
policy framework for ECD. This will guide the establishment of a national ECD component for 3 to 5
year old children. Participation in quality ECD programs is proven to enhance the school readiness of
entrants into the primary school system and reduce repetition and drop out rates, especially at the lower
primary standards, thus saving resources and contributing to the achievement of UPE.
Although the MOE is committed to expanding ECD coverage, given budgetary and capacity constraints,
it will play a minimal role in terms of financing the sub-sector. Instead, the MOE will strengthen its role
as coordinator of ECD programs and will pursue expansion within the purview of MOE policy on ECD:
it is not anticipated that the MOE will provide direct ECD services or facilities. The MOE will provide
support to community-based approaches in which communities/parents/private sector will continue to
deliver ECD services. Promising practice in Africa, as seen in Kenya and Uganda, shows govemment
involvement is best targeted toward the training of ECD providers and the regulation of programs.
Toward this end, a national monitoring and evaluation system, to be established and run by the MOE, will
ensure a well-planned and equitable expansion of ECD in Lesotho.
During Phase I, the ECD component will focus on defining appropriate roles for MOE and ECD
providers. Working in partnership with ECD stakeholders, the MOE will take the lead in the following
areas: (a) establishing a national policy framework for ECD which will guide the expansion of ECD
coverage; (b) designing an effective and age-appropriate curriculum; (c) developing a training programn
for ECD trainers, teachers and providers; and (d) pilot testing low-cost, community-based programs in
two of the most disadvantaged districts.
Primary and Secondary Education
By addressing issues of access, equity, quality and efficiency in primary and secondary education, the
project will lay the groundwork for achieving UPE and at least 40percent secondary net enrollment by
2011.    Capacity building and investments will start right away in six areas: (a) curriculum and
assessment, (b) teacher development and support, (c) physical construction, (d) school-level management,
(e) targeted equity-based program for disadvantaged groups, and (f) capacity building in planning,
monitoring, and evaluation.
Curriculum and Assessment. This sub-component will give priority to developing an integrated national
framework for curriculum and assessment, beginning at the level of primary education and later
addressing the needs of secondary education. The MOE will establish a Working Group on National
Curriculum and Assessment which will consult broadly with education stakeholders. Taking into account
the findings of such consultations, the Working Group will prepare a draft framework and submit it for



Project Appraisal Docurment
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                 Page 13
GOL approval. The framework will: prescribe the compulsory subjects for each phase of education and
assign them appropriate weighting; indicate supplementary subjects; prescribe purposes and timings of
formal national assessment and examinations. With the framework approved, NCDC and ECOL will be
responsible for developing the curricula and schemes of external assessment respectively.
HIV/AIDS education will be built into the school curriculum to promote awareness and prevent the most
vulnerable school-age youth from the risks. The project will support the adaptation of HIV/AIDS
learning and teaching materials readily available in the region.
Until recently, the revolving textbook fund has been functioning well. However, the impact of book user
fees on the poor has not been fully analyzed. Therefore, the project will evaluate the adequacy of book
provision, especially if the GOL introduces free education. More importantly, this matter will be
addressed as the new curriculum comes on stream. During the civil unrest in September 1998, two
warehouses filled with textbooks were bumed down. The GOL has allocated funds to replace the
textbooks but not for the warehouses. The project will finance the rehabilitation of the warehouses.
Teacher Development and Support. This sub-component will help develop a Distance Teacher Education
Program (DTEP) which will include a 2-year Certificate program and a 1-2 year Diploma program. The
DTEP, which will be classroom-based and activity-oriented, will allow teachers to upgrade their skills
through self-study, classroom practice and support from tutors. It will allow the annual intake of teachers
to increase from 200 to 500: upgrade the skills of servingheadteachers; reduce the length of training
needed to obtain a Certificate; and most importantly will allow teachers to improve their skills without
leaving their classrooms.
Under its new project, the African Development Bank (ADB) will also support in-service training for
primary and secondary school teachers. The Department for Intemational Development (DFID) will
continue its involvement in the education sector with a project which began in 1995 and is scheduled to
end in 2000. Through its project, DFID provides support to teachers in 120 pilot schools. The subjects
covered include Mathematics, Science, English and management issues.
Irish Aid's Primary Education Support Project (PESP) began in 1993 and ended in 1998. It was reviewed
and recommended for a second phase which may begin in late 1999. The PESP aimed to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the LCE by providing funding for capital development, staff development and
technical assistance. Under a program administered by the Irish Agency for Personal Services Overseas,
Irish Aid conducts short training courses for principals at targeted secondary schools and provides extra
school equipment and learning materials.
Physical Construction. As the program places particular emphasis on meeting the needs of the poorest
communities in Lesotho, priority for primary classroom construction will be given to inaccessible areas5.
Classroom construction in these areas is very difficult as the bulk of materials must be delivered either by
mule or by helicopter. Based on the level of poverty and remoteness of location, the MOE has identified
6 target districts: Mafeteng, Mohale 's Hoek, Mokhotlong, Quthing, Qacha's Nek and Thaba Tseka.
At the request of the MOE, ADB will provide support for building schools in the latter three districts and
ESDP II will concentrate its classroom construction in the former three districts. Priority will be given to
building approximately 80 classrooms at 33 inaccessible schools in Mafeteng, Mohale's Hoek and
Mokhotlong. In addition, the project will construct approximately 120 classrooms for accessible schools
in those three districts. Future phases of ESDP II will cover other districts.
5 The MOE defines an inaccessible school as one which is situated at least one mile from the nearest road. The
majority of these sites are in the mountainous regions and are only reachable by foot, by mule or by helicopter.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                 Page 14
Irish Aid, under its project (1999-2001), also plans to construct some primary school classrooms in
remote rural districts. The aim of Irish Aid's project is to assist communities in mountainous areas to
construct and equip classroom buildings. Irish Aid has been involved in this project since 1997 and
currently has 15 classrooms under construction.
The World Bank will also provide support to the proposed Community Development Support Project
(CDSP). Under this Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), the World Bank will provide US$4.7 million to
leverage US$15.0 million committed annually by the Highlands Water Revenue Fund. The CDSP aims
to demonstrate the effectiveness of a demand-driven approach to supporting community development
through a phased implementation of a multi-sectoral special fund. Such a fund will benefit the poor by
creating improved community-based social and economic infrastructure, including new and rehabilitated
classrooms.
Under the CDSP, the primary education sub-sector will benefit from construction of additional
classrooms. As the communities involved are required to contribute some resources to the projects, the
CDSP will begin its classroom construction in the lowland areas, based on demand. These regions are
more likely to have materials and resources available for community participation. By also providing
housing for teachers and basic furmiture to schools, the project aims to improve both access and quality of
education, particularly in previously neglected locations. The project will closely work with the MOE to
ensure that any classroom construction is coordinated with the sectoral plans and the recurrent
expenditures available.
ESDP II will rehabilitate 26 student hostels at the LCE, thus enabling the College to expand its
enrollment. Also 'u:nider the project, two textbook warehouses which were bumed during the civil unrest
of September 1998 will be rehabilitated. While the GOL has allocated funds to replace the books which
were stored within, the reconstruction will be financed through this project.
School-level Management. The project will provide support to, School Committees, many of which were
established under the ongoing project. By the end of the three year project period, all primary and
secondary schools will have established School Committees. Members of the Committees, comprised of
teachers, parents and church representatives, will participate in training workshops on financial and
management issues. The Committees will take on increasing responsibility in school management as well
as in classroom construction, particularly in the inaccessible areas.
Targeted Equity Based Program.  Under ESDP II, innovative pilot programs targeted at children
(including herd boys) from the disadvantaged population will be designed and implemented based on a
participatory needs survey. One such initiative which will be implemented on a pilot basis is a bursary
scheme. Bursaries for children from targeted, isolated areas will enable them to gain access to secondary
schools with boarding facilities.
Irish Aid will partially support a bursary scheme to be implemented by Save the Children, Lesotho. Irish
Aid's contribution will include partial financing of bursaries to enable children in remote valleys to
progress to secondazy school. In addition, some assistance will be given to participating secondary
schools to upgrade their boarding facilities.
Planning, Budgeting and Monitoring. The project will support the upgrading of the EMIS in order to
enhance the capacity at both the school level and the central level to accurately collect school data with
the help of the revised survey forms. The Planning Unit staff will receive training to assist them in
analyzing the EMIS data and will learn how to use this data to inform the policydecisionmaking process.
Separately, the German development agency, GTZ, has allocated some funds for establishing a
monitoring and evaluation system for the EMIS.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                              Page 15
To facilitate the alignment of budget allocations with stated GOL priorities, the program will assist the
GOL to undertake a PER, coordinated by a PER Steering Group (PERSGI. It is expected that the PER
will produce information that the MOE will utilize in prioritizing and re-allocating annual expenditures.
In collaboration with the Ministries of Finance and Central Planning, the expenditure and budget
management reviews will provide the foundation for a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
that matches expected resources with required expenditures.
Enhancing MOE staff and institutional capacity will also contribute to the sustainability and impact of the
program. During Phase I, needs assessments in several units of the MOE will be conducted and
subsequently recruitment completed and appropriate staffing levels maintained. In particular, ESDP II
will support short-term management training courses for MOE personnel. TheADB's new project also
contains a component aimed at building capacity in the MOE.
Technical and Vocational Education and Training
The TVET component of the project will focus on developing the policies and an institutional framework
needed to create a revitalized and demand-driven TVET system. This work will lay the foundation upon
which the MOE can build an efficient and cost-effective system capable of producing graduates that: 1)
meet the needs of the national economy and 2) are competitive locally and in regional niches.
The three-year project will establish (a) a tripartite management structure made up of representatives of
employers, employees and the GOL; (b) a qualifications framework and an enhanced accreditation
system; and (c) a financial management and performance monitoring system These reforms will be
encapsulated in a comprehensive TVET Act. It should be noted that the objective of (b) above is not to
establish a massive bureaucratic structure or a complicated set of institutions. Rather, the aim is to
strengthen the linkage between the training programs and the needs of the local labor markets and to
increase ability of Basotho to compete in regional niches.
The project will also support a skills needs assessment for the national economy and for 3 selected
industries: garment and textile; hospitality (tourism); and building. In addition, the organizational,
personnel and physical capacities to develop and initiate TVET reforms will be upgraded. GTZ also
plans to help build capacity among TVD staff.
Non-formal Education
Competing demands for services and budgets currently prevent the GOL from playing a significant role in
NFE. The project will support the MOE to (a) define its role in the provision and financing of NFE,
particularly relative to the large non-government sector that is already active in this area, but also relative
to other ministries; (b) reassess to what extent MOE institutions fulfillMOE's mandate in this area; and
(c) identify how to strengthen MOE's role in the delivery and financing of NFE programs.
This component will support the development of a policy framework for NFE. The immediate goal is to
define policies and priorities for the sub-sector. These should meet the most pressing needs of the country
and be adequately financed and sustained by a combination of public and private sector resources. Policy
and program design will draw from a demand assessment involving consultations with potential clients
such as herdboys, out-of-school youths and retrenched miners. Once the policy foundation is laid under
Phase I, investments will be provided under Phases II and III.
6A PER Steering Group (PERSG) comprising representatives from the MOE's Planning Unit, LTS, Budget
Controller (MOF), Ministry of Planning, MOE Financial Controller and NUL will oversee this important work.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                        Page 16
Phase Iproject costs by sub-component
Component/            Category*   Cost Incl.   % of    Bank-          %
Sub-component                        Contin-    Total  financing   Financed
gencies            (USSM)   by Bank
(USSM)
A.      Early Childhood Development                   0.4       1.6%      0.4       100%
A.1  Identification of priorities for  TA          0.1       0.4%      0.1       100%
ECD
A.2  Planning for curriculum design,    TA/CB      0.2       0.8%      0.2        100%
teacher training and policy
enhancement for ECD
A.3  Pilot testing of community-       TA          0.1       0.4%      0.1       100%
based, low-cost options for ECD
B.      Primary and Secondary                         23.4     90.0%      17.7       76%
Education
B.1  Curriculum, testing and         TA/CB         2.1       8.0%      2.1       100%
assessment
B.2  Teacher development and         TA/CB/        2.9      11.0%      2.9       100%
support                          Inv.
B.3  Physical construction            CW           9.8      38.0%      8.8        90%
B.4  School-level management         TA/CB         1.9      7.0%       1.9       100%
B.5  Targeted equity-based program   TA/lnv.       1.2      5.0%       0.2        16%
B.6  Planning, monitoring and        TA/CB         5.5      21.0%      1.8        33%
evaluation
C.      Technical and Vocational
Education and Training                        1.0      3.6%       1.0       100%
C. 1  Development of a management    TA/CB         0.3       1.0%      0.3       100%
structure
C.2  Development of an enhanced      TA/CB         0.2      0.8%       0.2       100%
accreditation/qualification
system
C.3  Development of financial        TA/CB         0.3       1.0%      0.3       100%
management and performance
monitoring system
C.4  Development of an alternative   TA/CB         0.2      0.8%       0.2       100%
financing scheme
D.      Non-formal Education                          0.4       1.6%      0.4       100%
D.l  Identification of priorities for  TA          0.1       0.4%      0.1       100%
NFE
D.2  Definition of role of MOE         TA          0.1       0.4%      0.1       100%
relative to other players
D.3  Strengthening/development of    TA/CB         0.2       0.8%      0.2       100%
appropriate management
structures, performance
monitoring, etc.
E.      Unidentified Studies/TA           TA          0.5      2.0%       0.5       100%
Total                 26.7      100%      21.0       77%
* TA - Technical assistance / CB - Capacity building / Inv. - Investment / CW - Civil Works



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                     Page 17
1.2 Triggersfor Subsequent Credits (see Attachment to Annex 1)
IDA will commit the subsequent credits when the GOL has achieved the agreed key milestones which are
outlined in the Attachment to Annex 1. Since APLs are intended to be flexible, adjustments to the
milestones, credit amounts and timing are likely to change as the program unfolds. Before committing
subsequent credits, however, there will be an appraisal to determine whether agreed milestones have been
met and sector priorities remain valid.
While the design and implementation of Phase II depends heavily on the outcomes of Phase I, certain
foreseeable goals are likely targets for work under Phase 11. Triggers for moving from Phase I to Phase II
were noted earlier (see project indicators in Section A). Triggers for moving from Phase II to Phase III
are indicative only and are listed below.
Component                          Indicative Triggers for Moving from
Phase II to Phase III
ECD                   1. ECD coverage increased to 30% by January 2006
Primary & Secondary  2. Net enrollment rate in Standards 1-7 increased to 85% by January
Education             2006
3. Student:teacher ratio decreased from 48:1 to 44:1 by January 2006
4. Primary school drop-out rate decreased from 7.5% to 4.0%;
primary repetition rate lowered from 19.1% to 15% by January 2006
5. At least 35% of school-aged children enrolled in secondary school
by January 2006
6. MTEF is being used consistently; 72% of education recurrent
budget allocated and confimned through actual expenditures to
primary and secondary education by April 2006 and onwards
7. 100% of School Advisory and Management Conunittees for
primary and secondary schools functioning satisfactorily by January
2005
8. Number of qualified teachers increased by 20% by January 2006
TVET                  9. Increase of 5% in the number ofBasotho employed in the formal
sector in Lesotho and the regional market by 2006
NFE                   10. Literacy rate raised to 75% by December 2006
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
In primary and secondary education, the project will build largely on the existing policy and institutional
framework, while also pursuing some key reforms. In ECD, TVET and NFE, the government may
modify or establish new policies, depending on the findings and recommendations of analytical work.
Key reforms under the project include the following:
* MOE will develop an integrated curriculum and assessment framework, initially for primary and later
for secondary education.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                Page 18
*  After undertaking the PER, the government will regularly align budgetary allocations withsectoral
priorities via the MTEF.
*  MOE will explicitly target resources on the poorest, most isolated communities.
*  GOL will define the scope of decentralization, delineate the roles and responsibilities of different
levels of GOL, disseminate guidelines, and train school-level management committees for their new
roles.
*  The govemment will identify priorities for the ECD sub-sector and clearly define what roles should
be played by GOL and providers in expanding ECD coverage.
*  A tripartite body of employers, employees, and GOL will oversee reforms aimed at revitalizing the
TVET system so it will be demand-based, include an appropriate qualification and accreditation
system, and be bolstered by a sound financial management and monitoring system.
*  GOL will identify the clients and providers of NFE and define the role of MOE in the sub-sector.
3. Benefits and target population
3.1 Targeted Groups
The main beneficiaries of the project include primary and secondary school age children; children
between the ages of 3 and 5 who will benefit from increased ECD coverage; TVET students; and
potential participants in NFE programs such as out-of-school youths, illiterate adults, returning miners
and others seeking additional skills and training.
The project will target groups living in isolated, rural areas which traditionally have had difficulty
accessing basic social services. Under the primary and secondary education component, the project will
concentrate on the needs of the approximately 10,000 school-age children in isolated, poverty-stricken
areas who are currently out of school or are learning under very difficult conditions. The approximately
440,000 pupils currently enrolled in primary and secondary school will gain from quality improvements
made under the project. The project will also provide support and training opportunities to teachers and
principals nationwide, with particular emphasis on those serving in remote areas.
Another targeted group is youth at risk of contracting HIV/AIDS. The project will incorporate HIV/AIDS
information into the school curriculum and teacher training.
The specific investments in ECD, TVET and NFE will largely be defined during the policy formulation in
Phase I. Therefore, the targetgroups are not yet specified. However, while developing policies for these
sub-components during Phase I, the project will bear in mind the particular needs of the population of the
disadvantaged areas. In addition, the participatory demand assessment for NFE will benefit the private
sector by determining appropriate training needed for the labor market, and producing a better qualified
labor force.
3.2 Benefits
The short-term benefits of Phase I will be drawn primarily from direct project investnents in the
primary and secondary education sub-sectors. These investments will result in higher enrollment of
school-aged children in primary and secondary school. These children will benefit from quality
improvements such as lower pupil-teacher ratios, lower pupil-classroom ratios, and more and better
trained teachers. Although rates of return to education in Lesotho have not been calculated, economic
retums to primary and secondary education for the sub-region are high: The average "social" rate of
return for low- and middle-income Sub-Saharan African countries is 24 percent for investment in primary
education and 18 percent for investment in secondary education (World Bank, "Priorities and Strategies,"
1995). Well-designed policy frameworks for ECD, TVET and NFE will position the sub-sectors to



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                Page 19
contribute substantially to the social and economic development of the country in the next phase of the
project.
Indirect, medium-term benefits will accrue from improved efficiency and equity in the management and
delivery of educational services, both centrally and at the district and school levels. RegulaiPERs and
subsequent budget allocations based on the MTEF will align allocations with sectoral priorities.
Recruitment and training of personnel in key units in the MOE will enhance its capacity to implement the
project and manage long-term reforms. The establishment and training of school committees will
enhance collaboration among GOL, churches, schools and communities in delivering education services
and managing schools.
The nation and its people will derive long-term benefits from expanded access to quality education and
training. This will help reduce the number of people living in absolute poverty, because those who have
more years of education and training can participate more productively in the economy. Society as a
whole will benefit from resulting higher literacy rates, increased social cohesion, lower crime rates,
improvements in child health and nutritional status, improvements in health outcomes for adults, higher
educational attainment for future generations, lower fertility rates and intensified economic growth.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Under the direction of the Principal Secretary for Education (PS, MOE), the project will be implemented
by the Heads of Programs (HOPs) and coordinated by the Director of Planning. A Program Advisory
Committee will be established comprising a selected number ofHOPs. This Committee, chaired by the
PS, MOE will have responsibility for project implementation and will ensure full integration of the
implementation process into the regular operations of the MOE.
Under the ongoing project, the MOE has built good capacity for civil works within the Education
Facilities Unit (EFU), and this unit will be maintained. The MOE will hire additional EFU staff to ensure
adequate attention to the needs of classroom construction in the inaccessible areas, which is expected to
take longer than construction in the accessible areas. The project will provide technical assistance for
drawing key engineering plans (for example, for LCE hostels), in which the EFU has no expertise.
Under the ongoing project, a procurement agent was engaged to deal with procurement packages for
goods which required complex technical specifications. Under the proposed project, however, no
complex procurement of goods is anticipated. However, in case the need should arise, the project
allocates funds for short-term procurement technical assistance.
4.1 Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
The central project monitoring tools are as follows:
* Quarterly and yearly implementation reports, twice-a-year supervision, a mid-term review, and
completion reports will provide monitoring information at regular intervals.
* Program evaluation and research studies will provide a second source of monitoring information. These
will assess the adoption of the revised curriculum, the establishment of improved teaching and leaming
processes at the school level, and the project's impact on children's leaming outcomes, as well as
stakeholder perceptions of quality, delivery and other issues.
* The MTEF will serve as a tool for monitoring the budgetary process.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                               Page 20
A strengthened EMIS to be designed and installed in the first year of the project (1999) will provide
baseline information against which quantitative and qualitative improvements will be measured. The
EMIS will provide annual reports on key performance indicators such as school enrollment, achievement,
repetition and drop-out rates, as well as sector financing data.
* For ECD, TVET and NFE, performance monitoring of capacity building activities and of institutions
will be strengthened. Special studies will also focus on emerging social issues and improve the collection
of information on disadvantaged groups.
4.2 Financial Management
The Project Accounts Section of the Planning Unit (PASPU) of the MOE will have responsibility for
ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures for ESDP II meet GOL and World Bank
standards. To do that, PASPU's financial management system will need to be substantially strengthened
in accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan presented in Annex 5. Salient features of the
Action Plan include appointment of a Financial Management Committee and a professionally qualified
Financial Manager; staff recruitment and capacity building; preparation of a Financial Procedures
Manual; establishment of a Fixed Assets Register and a Contracts Ledger; quarterly reporting of financial
information using spreadsheets; cash-flow management including variance analysis; and independent
monitoring by intemal and extemal auditors.
PASPU's current financial management system cannot reliably provide accurate and timely information
as required by the World Bank for disbursements based on the Project Management Report (PMR).
However, the timely appointment of the Financial Manager and improvements toPASPU7s financial
management system as outlined in Annex 5 are expected to facilitate the introduction of PMR-based
disbursements within 12 to 18 months of credit effectiveness. In this regard, a specialist will undertake a
financial management review of the project within 12 months of credit effectiveness to assess progress.
Meanwhile, in the short term, the project will follow existing disbursement procedures-direct payment,
reimbursement and special commitmnent.
4.3 Disbursement of IDA Funds
Disbursement from IDA will be made on the basis of incurred eligible expenditures. IDA will make
advance disbursement into a Borrower-operated Special Account to expedite program implementation.
The Special Account is to be used by the Borrower to financeIDA's share of program expenditures under
the Credit. Another acceptable method of withdrawing funds from the Credit is for IDA to make direct
payment to a third party for works, goods and services, upon the Borrower's request. Payments may also
be made to a commercial bank for expenditures against IDA special commitments covering a commercial
bank's Letter of Credit. IDA's Disbursement Letter stipulates a minimum application value for direct
payment and special commitmnent procedures.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOEs) for (a) works under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, (b) goods under
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (c) consultant services (firms) under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent, (d) consultant services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $50,000
equivalent and (e) operating costs and training under the terms and conditions that IDA specifies to the
Borrower.
The authorized allocation for the Special Account (SA) will be US$1 million, covering an estimated four
months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. Upon credit effectiveness or as needed, an amount of
US$500,000 will be deposited in the SA. Subsequent deposits may be requested as needed, not
exceeding the total authorized amount of US$1 million. The Borrower should submit replenishment



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                 Page 21
applications quarterly. The Borrower will be obligated to refund ineligible expenditures made from the
Special Account. If the Special Account remains inactive for more than six months, IDA may ask the
Borrower to refund amounts advanced to the Special Account.
D: PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
a) APL vs. traditional investment loan. Having been presented with a menu of lending instruments, the
GOL chose the Adaptable Program Loan rather than a traditional Specific Investment Project because
(i) reforms in education are nornally protracted, and (ii) the GOL lacks a coherent policy framework
and capacity in several areas identified as priority: ECD, TVET and NFE. The APL will enable
sustained, long-term Bank support in the education sector over the next 12 years. Flexibility in
design will facilitate the targeting of future investments to new sector priorities.
b) Sectoral approach vs. focus on primary education While providing primary education to its people
is a clear priority for the GOL, it also recognizes the importance of having a solid base of human
resources which can meet national labor market needs as well as be exported to the regional labor
market. Developing one sub-sector while disregarding others can result in a poor mix of labor force
skills. This is especially important in Lesotho, which has only two significant resources: its water
and its people. The GOL also recognizes that all levels of education are linked and that planning for
one sub-sector in isolation from the others could result in poorly calibrated allocations of public
expenditure. Therefore, the proposal is to support a sectorwide program within a defined public
expenditure framework.
c) Policy development vs. initial direct investment in ECD, TVET and NFE. In previous projects,
direct investments for TVET were not very successful, primarily because of the weak institutional
framework in the sub-sector. Therefore, prior to investing in TVET, the project will support only
policy development and capacity building during Phase I. This is to ensure that investment will be
effective and sustainable in the long term. The same approach will be used for ECD and NFE, which
also require additional analysis.
d) Targeted primary classroom construction vs. equal expansion in every district. The GOL has stated
that poverty reduction is the goal for all development initiatives. Therefore, rather than building an
equal number of schools in each district, the project will focus its primary classroom construction in
the inaccessible areas. These areas, located in the districts identified by the MOE as the most
impoverished and isolated, have traditionally beenunderserved. Schools in areas with easier access
will be built on a parallel track, but priority will be given to the inaccessible schools in six districts.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                      Page 22
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned)
(a) Bank-financedprojects
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector Issue                      Project                       Ratings
Implementation  Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Expandedlupgraded vocational, technical, Education Project (Cr. 4970),  S              S
and commercial education; provided   US$ 4 million,
education to out-of-school youth and  closed March 31, 1979
adults
Constructed curriculum development   Second Education Project          S               S
center and secondary schools, provided   (Cr. 7480), US$ 7.5 million,
equipment and vehicles, technical    closed Dec. 31, 1982
assistance, and fellowships
Improved quality and efficiency in   Third Education Project           S               S
primary and vocational education     (Cr. 11480), US$ 10 million,
closed Sept. 30, 1987
Reduced overcrowding; increased the  Fourth Education Project,         S               S
availability of instructional materials, and  (Cr. 15120), US$ 10million,
upgraded unqualified teachers        closed Sept. 30, 1991
Main goals are to: (a) increase the quality, Education Sector          S               S
efficiency and relevance of educational    Development Project,
programs at all levels of the education  (Cr. 2287), US$ 25.2 million,
system, with a special focus on primary   closing June 30, 1999
education; and (b) build institutional
capacity to improve overall sectoral
performance
The dual objectives are: (a) to      Communuity Development
demonstrate the effectiveness of a   Support Project (LEL),
demand-driven approach to supporting    US$ 4.7 million, planned
community development through a
phased implementation of a multi-sectoral
special fumd; and (b) to strengthen
Lesotho's capacity to monitor the scope
and trends of poverty in the country.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                       Page 23
(b) Ongoing projects financed by other development partners
The various development partners actively supporting Lesotho's education sector have agreed to
independently finance different parts of the GOL's sectoral program. The MOE will coordinate such
support to ensure it is complementary. The partners will also meet regularly during supervision missions
in the field.
Partner      Sector Issue(s)           Activities and Focus         Dates       Estimated
Commitments
(LJS$million)
ADB      Access to and quality of  Primary classroom construction in 3  1999-2002  12.8
education              districts (Thaba-Tseka, Quthing and
Qacha's Nek); provision of furniture
and leaming materials to those
primary schools; construction of
science and technical laboratories at
secondary school level; in-service
training for primary and secondary
school teachers; capacity building
for MOE
DFID     Quality of education    Teacher support in Maths, Science,  1995-2000     4.2
English and management at about
120 pilot schools
GTZ      Quality of education    Establishment of a monitoring and    1999-2000    0.26
evaluation system for TVD and the
MIS; capacity building for TVD
staff
Irish    Access to and quality of  Primary classroom construction;  1999-2001      2.2
Aid      education               teacher support at primary and
secondary levels; partial support to
bursary scheme for targeted
secondary school-age students
(implemented by Save the
Children); and support to the Centre
for Accounting Studies
Total            19.5
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Since the early 1980s, the World Bank has worked with the GOL to implement six education projects
totaling US$60.8 million. Besides IDA, two other development partners-EU and USAID-provided
financing totaling nearly US$40.0 million. These projects have been executed in a timely fashion and
with good results. However, these projects have had limited impact in terms of reforming the education
system as a whole. This is in part because earlier Bank projects focused primarily on increasing access to
primary and secondary education without adequate attention to quality. Investments in TVET were not
supported by a carefully prepared policy framework or adequate institutional arrangements. Furthermore,
the time horizon for implementing reforms was too short.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                Page 24
The following key lessons are reflected in project design:
(a)  Projects should be based on ownership and inclusive participation.
The Basotho determined the priorities for both the ongoing and proposed project, which has
resulted in a strong sense of ownership. In preparation for the November 1997 Donors Round
Table Conference in Geneva, the Basotho conducted economic sector work on the identified
priority areas. At the logframe workshops held in Lesotho in February and June 1998, GOL
counterparts reexamined the project goals and identified the critical steps required to achieve them.
This process of identifying priorities and shaping project design has included participation by a
wide range of stakeholders.
(b)  Collaboration among development partners increases the impact of their support to the GOL
program.
Lack of development partner coordination created difficulties during the ongoing project. As a
result of a financial windfall, additional funding from the EU became available to the MOE in the
midst of the ongoing World Bank project. The MOE then elected to use EU funding, which in turn
delayed the implementation of the World Bank-financed project.
Several development partners, including the ADB, have agreed to finance separate parts of the
sector program. For example, the MOE identified six target districts for primary classroom
construction. Subsequently, the ADB agreed to focus its primary classroom construction in three
of those districts and the World Bank-supported project will concentrate on building in the other
three districts. In addition, Irish Aid, DFID and GTZ will coordinate theirsectoral financing with
the MOE to ensure that the initiatives are complementary and not overlapping.
(c)  An integrated approach to project implementation contributes to long-term sustainability.
The experience of the ongoing project demonstrates the positive impact project implementation can
have when integrated into the main stream of MOE operations, rather than being handled by a free-
standing unit. The proposed project will be implemented in the same integrated manner.
(d)  Involving the parents and community strengthens ownership and creates a means for
monitoring project implementation at the grassroots level.
Experience in Lesotho shows that parents and communities have a crucial role to play in school
management. The proposed project will continue supporting the appointment and training of
members of school committees. The communities will also take on increased responsibility in
classroom construction, especially in the inaccessible areas.
(e)  Qualitative inputs, such as teacher training, must be considered alongside efforts to expand
access.
Although the ongoing project focused on some reforms in addition to civil works (for example,
pre-service and in-service teacher training), the reforms did not go far enough in terms of coverage
and depth to achieve the intended impact on the system. For this reason, the proposed project will:
target all unqualified and underqualified teachers; place greater emphasis on upgrading the skills
and knowledge of serving teachers; and work to change teachers' classroom behavior.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                             Page 25
(f)   Administrative and management capacity must be developed in parallel with professional
capacity in educational fields.
The ongoing project has supported strengthening the Examination Council of Lesotho with the goal
of transferring the administration of the Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE) and
localizing the Cambridge Overseas School Certificate (COSC) examination. These efforts were
largely unsuccessful because the project design focused too narrowly on strengthening only
professional capacity in educational fields.
In order to strengthen examination control, it is equally important to build administrative capacity.
The proposed project plans to continue supporting professional development, but will also enhance
capacity in computing, administration and the management of resources.
(g)  A well-defined policy framework should be in place prior to making investments.
TVET was one of the components covered under the ongoing project. Although it was successful
in its implementation progress, it failed to achieve its development objective because the sub-sector
lacked a coherent policy framework and suffered from weak capacity. The proposed project will
address policy formulation and capacity building prior to investment in TVET, as well as in ECD
and NFE.
(h)  Budget allocations should be aligned with government priorities.
In recent years, despite GOL's stated commitment to primary and secondary education as its
priority areas, their budget allocations did not keep pace with those for tertiary education. The new
project will finance a review of public expenditure in education. Thereafter, the MOE will
regularly make its budget allocations based on a MTEF.
(i)  Focusing on disadvantaged groups strengthens the project's ability to reduce poverty.
In keeping with the GOL's goal of poverty alleviation, the project will identify appropriate
approaches to address the needs of the poorest of the poor. These are likely to include a bursary
scheme which would allow children in isolated communities to attend secondary schools with
boarding facilities as well as targeted primary classroom construction in these impoverished areas.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The GOL has demonstrated a strong commitment to improving education and recognizes that education
and training are powerful tools in the fight against poverty. In November 1997, the GOL held a Round
Table Conference on "Poverty Reduction Within the Context of Good Governance." At this meeting, the
GOL outlined a costed poverty alleviation program centered on five priority areas, including "improving
social services to the poor." This priority area focuses heavily on improving the quality of education and
extending access to education. Following the presentation of its specific education priorities, the GOL
asked the Bank to finance a new project to support its education sector program. The program identified
four priority areas for donor support: ECD, primary and secondary education, TVET and NFE.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
The World Bank has consistently supported the GOL in its education efforts since the early 1980s. The
proposed project incorporates many lessons learned from the experience over the years as outlined above.
The value added of World Bank support is in assisting the GOL to clarify its ideas and focus on priority
areas, and in providing global comparisons and experiences in other countries.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                Page 26
In particular, as a result of GOL and World Bank discussions, the project will now focus on several areas
previously not dealt with sufficiently: (a) prioritizing primary classroom construction in inaccessible
areas; (b) developing a new distance education program for teacher training; (c) emphasizing
decentralization of school management by establishing and training school committees; (d) pilot-testing a
bursary scheme for children living in disadvantaged, isolated areas; (e) investigating means of increasing
cost-efficiency at NUL; and (f) undertaking a PER and subsequently making budget allocations based on
a MTEF on a regular basis.
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS
1. Economic and Financial (supported by Annex 4)
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis [ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis [X ] Other (see Annex 4)
The extent to which the education system promotes social and economic development in a country
depends on a combination of the quantity and quality of its outcomes, as well as the system's efficiency
and accessibility. The allocation of public resources should serve to increase the number of children
reached, especially in the lower income groups, as well as support improvements in the quality and
efficiency of education delivered. Expenditure targeted to these ends will maximize the social retums to
investnent in education.
Coverage and Efficiency. Lesotho's education system, while relatively strong compared to those of many
Sub-Saharan African countries, faces stiff challenges such as declining primary enrollment rates, varying
access to and quality of schooling across geographical areas, and high rates of repetition and drop-out. In
1996, primary net enrollment rates were 68 percent, nearly 10 percentage points lower than in 1990. At
the same time, repetition and drop-out rates were about 20 percent and 7.5 percent, respectively. Access
to education is especially low for children from remote mountain and poverty-stricken areas. Secondary
net enrollment rates have improved from 24 percent in 1990 to 31 percent in 1996. However, wastage is
a serious problem at the secondary school level where repetition rates are nearly 10 percent.
Policy Simulation Model. The ESDP II aims to arrest Lesotho's decline in primary net enrollment rates
and improve the efficiency of primary and secondary education. Meeting these aims will require
increasing the demand for education through such measures as constructing additional classrooms in
inaccessible areas, increasing the quality and relevance of education, and perhaps lowering or eliminating
primary school fees. The intermediate and end targets of these initiatives, as well as their cost and
sustainability, have been assessed through a policy simulation model. Three main scenarios have been
examined:
•  A Core Scenario simulates the quantitative implications (enrollment, teaching corps, investment and
budgetary costs) of attaining UPE by 2011.
*  Scenario 11 simulates the efficiency gains as a result of more ambitious reductions in repetitions and
drop-out rates.
• Scenario III estimates the budgetary impact of making primary education free as a way to help the
govemment meet its longer term objectives of increasing equity and access.
Each of the above scenarios envisages significant boosts to primary and secondary enrollment and
education expenditures. Attaining UPE in the Core Scenario would require a real annual expansion of the
education budget of 6 to 7 percent per year. The efficiency gains envisaged in Scenario II would lead to
slower real growth in the education budget, about 5 percent per year. Finally, free primary education
(Scenario III) would require annual real increases of between 8 and 9 percent, depending on the rate of
implementation. Despite efforts to contain costs at the NUL, unit costs in the tertiary sub-sector remain
high. The expense of educating one NUL student is equivalent to educating 116 primary pupils or 34



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                             Page 27
secondary students. In light of such a high unit cost ratio and the presumed scope for cost reductions,
tertiary expenditures under the scenarios do not increase at the same rate as those for primary and
secondary. In fact, tertiary's share in education expenditures declines.
Such projections of education expenditure growth-between 5 and 9 percent-are high in the context of
an economy expected to grow at 3 percent per year. Such growth could impose a heavy burden on the
govemment budget. However, recognizing that human resources are the country's most important asset,
the govemment and its extemal development partners have expressed their commitment to provide
additional funding for human resource development.
Public Expenditure Review and Medium-Term Expenditure Framework. Under ESDP II, financing will
be set aside to ensure that expenditure and budget management reviews, coordinated by the PERSG, are
undertaken on an ongoing basis. The expenditure and budget management reviews are expected to
provide the foundation for an MTEF that matches expected resources with required expenditures. It is
envisaged that a draft PER will be completed by end 1999 and will be used to inforn preparation of the
FY 2000/01 education budget. Thereafter, a PER will be conducted annually, and a consensus report will
be completed and used for intra-sectoral allocation of resources. The establishment of a functioning
MTEF will be an important trigger for Phase II of the APL.
Future Economic Analysis. In addition to the ongoing revision of the education simulation model and of
the public expenditure analysis, several other types of economic analysis will be undertaken during
Phase I. The results of the proposed analysis may be used to trigger financing under subsequent phases of
the APL. For example, Lesotho's household survey will be strengthened during Phase I to permit cost-
benefit and benefit incidence analysis in the future. In addition, a social assessment is currently underway
with Bank assistance to identify issues related to disadvantaged groups andunderserved areas. Finally,
development of the EMIS, already begun during project preparation (with PPF financing), will be an
ongoing and important feature of the project.
2. Technical
a. Curriculum and assessment
A number of ongoing changes-such as revisions to the primary level curriculum, transfer of the Primary
School Leaving Examinations and the Examination Council of Lesotho (ECOL), and the move toward
localizing end-of-secondary examinations-have placed the National Curriculum Development Center
(NCDC) and ECOL under great pressure. The establishment of a national curriculum and assessment
policy framework would help to guide the future work of the institutions and also help to prevent tensions
in the system. Therefore, under the project the MOE will develop such a framework, initially for primary
education and later in Phase I for secondary education. To prepare NCDC and ECOL for their role in
developing and implementing the framework, each will be strengthened through technical support,
training and twinning arrangements.
b. Textbooks
Using its own resources, the GOL has developed one of the most viable textbook schemes in Sub-Saharan
Africa. The GOL established a revolving fund by providing seed money, and parents then pay for
materials and a book user fee. This system has been very successful, although the impact of book fees on
enrollment of the poor has not been fully analyzed. Anecdotal evidence indicates that some poor
households have kept their children out of school because of an inability to pay book user fees. The
project will evaluate the adequacy of book provision, especially if the GOL introduces free education.
More importantly, this matter will be addressed as the new curriculum comes on stream.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                 Page 28
C Teacher development and support
If ESDP II is to assist GOL to achieve UPE by 2011, it must address teacher training capacity during
Phases I and II. The policy simulation model shows that to meet the demand for primary school teachers,
the annual recruitment rate will need to rise from the current 550 to approximately 1,800 by 2011/12.
Therefore, ESDP II will support efforts to increaseLCE's capacity to produce additional primary school
teachers by upgrading 26 existing student hostels. The project does not anticipate a problem in recruiting
sufficient teachers, mostly due to two recent developments: (a) teachers serving in isolated areas receive
a monthly hardship allowance that has proved successful in retaining them in such areas, and
(b) employment opportunities for teachers in South Africa have decreased significantly because South
Africa has a surplus of teachers and is retrenching.
By providing more and better pre-service and in-service training to teachers, the project will improve the
quality of education at the primary level. With the additional primary school teachers trained at LCE, the
average pupil-teacher ratio will drop from 48:1 to 45:1. The establishment of a Distance Teacher
Education Progran will provide in-service training to upgrade teachers' skills. Based on the success of
District Resource Teachers and Tutors begun under the ongoing project, the proposed project will expand
the number of DRTs from 84 to 100. The project will also recruit and train 20 additional Field Officers.
These two efforts will significantly strengthen the capacity of the Inspectorate.
d School-level management
ESDP II will support the work begun under the ongoing project by extending and consolidating
decentralization. The Inspectorate will oversee the training of committees in both general management as
well as financial management. An important goal of the project is to increase parental participation in
school govemance, and the key way to achieve this is by training these committees and empowering them
to make decisions. The project also aims to involve parents in the process of classroom construction as a
way to build ownership. Therefore, prior to project effectiveness, this training will focus on the school
committees of the inaccessible schools which will receive new classrooms first under the project.
3. Institutional
The MOE has a good record of project implementation. However, the MOE faces persistent problems of
weak capacity. This is partially due to an inability to retain highly skilled professionals because they
often leave to take advantage of better paying job opportunities in South Africa.
To offset capacity weaknesses, TA engaged for previous projects will be maintained as necessary under
the proposed project.7 For example, as noted earlier, MOE's capacity for procurement of civil works and
services has been strengthened substantially during previous projects, but capacity in procurement of
goods is weak and might benefit from TA support. Furthermore, covenants require the government to
maintain staffing levels of key implementing units, for example, the Planning Unit, Accounts Section.
The project anticipates providing management training for serving officers in key units to improve their
efficiency.
4. Social
Identifying the most disadvantaged and their needs requires further analysis, including a social
assessment. This work will include focus groups and household surveys conducted collaboratively by the
GOL and its development partners, including Irish Aid, the World Bank, DFID, CARE and UNICEF.
The results will inform the design of innovative approaches aimed at bringing out-of-school children in a
7 The TA referred to here means professionals, both Basotho and others, who work outside of the public service.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                              Page 29
number of targeted districts into the regular classrooms.  The World Bank conducted a Poverty
Assessment in 1995 which now requires updating. The planned Community Development Social Fund
will improve the GOL's future capacity to gather poverty data and to implement demand-driven
community projects.
5. Environmental assessment
Environmental Category     [ ]A []B  [X] C
This project has no adverse or controversial environmental aspects. While it does include a construction
component, all building will take place on existing school sites.
6. Participatory approach
Participatory consultations and methods have been and will be used at each phase of the project. During
the logframe workshops, representatives from all key stakeholder groups participated in finalizing the
project objectives and subsequently identifying the critical steps required to achieve them. Participants
included representatives of GOL, NUL, parents, teachers, and churches.
Participatory sub-components include:
(a) Stakeholder consultations to identify areas of particular education need;
(b) In-depth participatory assessment of constraints to accessing education;
(c) Assessment of demand for NFE through consultation with potential clients and employers;
(d) A participatory component of monitoring and evaluation based on views and perceptions of users and
providers and key stakeholders;
(e) Special studies on emerging issues; and
(f) Pilot programs.
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability
In order to achieve its development impact, a project should be implemented in an environment that is
politically, socially and economically conducive. Beyond this, strong human and institutional capacity
need to be in place.
As in almost every country, political instability could present a major external risk to the project.
However, following the civil unrest in September 1998, the security situation in Lesotho has stabilized
and the different political parties seem to be working together for the good of the nation.
Lack of financial sustainability presents another risk. Projections of education expenditure growth
between 5 and 9 percent are high in the context of an economy expected to grow at 3 percent per year.
This could impose a heavy burden on the GOL budget. It is possible that the GOL might not allocate
adequate funding to priority sub-sectors. For example, the GOL has identified primary and secondary
education as its priority. However, in recent years the budgetary allocation for tertiary (which includes
NUL and TVET) has continued to grow at a higher rate than that for primary and secondary.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                 Page 30
A potential social risk of the project is lack of cooperation between GOL and various education
stakeholders. Without stakeholder collaboration, the GOL could experience difficulty in instituting
policies such as the abolishment of primary school fees and recruitment and deployment of teachers.
With regards to ECD, TVET and NFE, employers, employees and other beneficiaries may not be willing
to help finance the further development of these sub-sectors.
The MOE may lack sufficient capacity to implement the program. In part due to the loss of people who
go to South Africa for better paying jobs, there is a high turnover rate in the GOL bureaucracy. This
results in vacancies in key units which often take a long time to fill. In order to fill crucial gaps in
capacity, the MOE often resorts to employing technical assistance (TA).  Sustaining bureaucratic
efficiency on the basis of TA poses a moral hazard and contributes to the lack of staffing continuity in the
MOE. Institutional capacity is especially problematic in the Planning Unit, the Accounts Section and the
TVD.
Implementation of targeted interventions might prove very difficult. For example, the construction of
classrooms in inaccessible areas might prove problematic since the project will have to employ
nontraditional procurement methods. While demand for education in Lesotho is generally high, the
demand specifically in these isolated areas has not been adequately analyzed. It is possible that, due to
cultural traditions or opportunity costs, herdboys and other disadvantaged groups might not take
advantage of the opportunities provided for cultural reasons or because of opportunity costs. Likewise,
parents may not feel it is safe to send their small children to ECD centers in order to take advantage of the
expanded coverage planned under the project. As regards the planned bursary scheme, there might not be
adequate financial resources to cover all who require such assistance.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                     Page 31
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                        Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure
Political instability could impede project implementation S
Education stakeholders may not cooperate        M              Information dissemination; regular
consultation between MOE and
stakeholders
Secular decline in economic growth could reduce GOL  M         Sustained dialogue with private
investments in the education sector                            sector; dialogue with GOL to
ensure investment-friendly
legislation
Weak institutional capacity may inhibit project  S             Conduct needs assessment and
implementation                                                 complete recruitment; sustain
staffing levels in key units;
implement training program for
key personnel; engage TA as
needed
GOL may not allocate adequate funds to priority sub-   M       Regularly conduct PER and
sectors                                                        allocate resources according to
MTEF
Lack of experience in implementing targeted equity  M          Advocacy campaigns; coordinating
based interventions may weaken program component               with other development partners
who have experience in Lesotho
and regionally
Overall Risk Rating                             M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                               Page 32
G: MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS
1. Conditions for Project Effectiveness
Prior to project effectiveness, the GOL shall:
a) Open an account in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA, (the Project Account) and thereafter
maintain the Project Account under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA until the completion of
the project; and
b) Deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount equivalent to US$ 350,000; and (ii) thereafter,
on a quarterly basis, replenish the Project Account;
c) Ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures
under the project;
d) Establish a financial management and accounting system satisfactory to IDA; and
e) Adopt a Project Implementation Manual (PIM) satisfactory to IDA.
2. Covenants
Implementation Program
The GOL shall:
a) implement the project in accordance with the procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth
in the PIM;
b) monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the project;
c) furnish to IDA for review and comment: (i) not later than October 31 of each year, commencing on
October 31, 1999, the draft work programs and budgets for the next fiscal year of the project; (ii) not
later than October 31 of each year, commencing on October 31, 2000, an annual report summarizing
the results of monitoring and evaluation activities;
d) jointly with IDA, carry out an Annual Review of the project by June 30 each year, starting in the year
2000;
e) jointly with IDA and other donors if possible, carry out a Midterm Review no later than June 30,
2001; furnish IDA and other donors a progress report one month prior to the Review; and following
the Review, act promptly to take any corrective action deemed necessary by IDA;
f) until the completion of the project, maintain the PERSG; conduct a PER for the education sector and
submit a draft report on the PER to IDA not later than August 31 of each year; adjust the budgetary
allocations within the context of the MTEF, having taken into account comments from IDA;
g) not later than March 31, 2001, establish the TVET management structure and the TVET accreditation
and graduate certification system;
h) not later than December 31, 1999, establish baseline date from the upgraded EMIS system;
i) not later than June 30, 2002, conduct a study of financial management and performance monitoring in
the TVET sub-sector and implement the recommendations of the study; and
j) not later than December 31, 2000, design a bursary scheme for disadvantaged students and promptly
take the required actions for implementing the scheme.



Project Appraisal Document
Lesotho Second Education Sector Development Project                                Page 33
Financial Covenants
The GOL shall:
a) Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the project of the departments or agencies of the
GOL responsible for carrying out the project or any part thereof, and
b) Have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above, including those for the Special
Account, for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
c) Furnish to IDA as soon as possible, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, the report of such audits which provide such scope and detail as IDA shall have reasonably
requested;
d) Furnish to IDA such other information conceming records, accounts and audit as IDA shall from time
to time reasonably request;
e) For all expenditures withdrawn from the Credit Account on the bases of statements of expenditure
(SOE), the GOL shall: (i) maintain records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until
at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable
IDA representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to above;
f) Carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to IDA for the strengthening of its financial
management system for the project in order to enable GOL, not later than December 31, 2000, to
prepare quarterly project management reports, acceptable to IDA; and
g) Upon completion of the action plan, the GOL shall prepare and furnish to IDA not later than 45 days
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report (PMR) for such period.
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Aside from the LCE hostels, this project has no major engineering designs. The refurbishment of the
hostels envisaged under the ongoing project was postponed and now ESDP II will cover this work. The
engineering designs are already available. With regard to civil works-construction of classrooms,
school offices and ventilated toilets-EFU has standard stock plans that have been used for the last 15
years. The EFU has already prepared procurement documents for classroom construction for accessible
schools and will send them to the World Bank shortly. Procurement of classrooms in the inaccessible
areas will be based on stock plans developed by Irish Aid. Small contractors or communities can use
these plans.
[] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
The GOL has applied for a PPF in the amount of US$500,000. The purpose is to finance startup activities
to ensure that at project effectiveness, implementation can quickly intensify. Under the current project,
EFU relied on a procurement agent for the procurement of goods that had complex technical
specifications. Procurement of goods under ESDP II will not involve such complex procurement
packages as it involves procurement of school furniture, science kits and traditional items such as
vehicles, computers and other office equipment. However, should the need arise, the project has allowed
finances to employ short-term procurement TA.



Project Appraisal Document
Second Lesotho Education Sector Development Project                                Page 34
[] The PIM has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
[X1 This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader: Dzingai Mutumbuka
Sector Diqctor: BirgerFredriksen
Country/Director: Pamela Cox



Annex 1
Page lof 17
LESOTHO
Second Education Sector Development Project
Project Design Summary
A. Summary Logframe for Phase I of ESDP II (1999-2002)
Narrative Summary                Measurable Indicators                       Monitoring &               Assumptions
Supervision
Supergoal
Poverty reduced                  10% more Basotho living above the poverty line   Household survey      Political stability
by 2011 -
Poverty assessment data    Labor intensive investments/self-
employment opportunities
Program Goal
More Basotho better educated,    10% more skilled labor positions filled by  Labor market surveys      Investment flows into Lesotho
actively employed both regionally    Basotho in local and regional labor market by
and locally and participating in  2011                                                                  Free movement of Basotho
community Icadership roles                                                                              regionally
Outputs                          1.1 National policy framework for ECD       1.1 Approved policy        Commitment by major
1. ECD                              established and operational by December  document                  stakeholders to address ECD at the
ECD coverage for Basotho aged 3-5   2001                                                                national and community level
years old expanded and an
increased percentage of children  1.2 ECD curniculum designed and disseminated   1.2 MOE records        Parents willing to take advantage
enrolling in primary education      by December 2002                                                    of ECD programs
better prepared and at the
appropriate age                  1.3 Training program for ECD trainers, teachers   1.3 Completed training
and providers developed by December 2000   manual
1.4 Low cost, community-based ECD programs   1.4 ECD Unit/MOE records
pilot tested in targeted districts by December
2002
Lesotho has no official absolute poverty line. For the purposes of this project, we set 2 relative poverty lines: We charactenrze as poor households whose
members consume less than half of the mean consumption level. We characterize as ultra poor households that spend less than 25% of the mean consumption
level. A household with a spending level at the first poverty line would probably need to spend about 51% of its total household budget to get a basic adult daily
diet of 2500 calories. A household at the second, ultra poor line would need to spend its whole budget to get the same diet and caloric intake. In 1993, nearly
half of all Basotho households were poor, while more than a quarter fell in the category of ultra poor.  Of the poor population, nearly 90% live in rural
households. Changes in poverty status are not systematically monitored, as there is no system to periodically update data on poverty in Lesotho. However, this
is being addressed by the Community Development Support Project. In addition, a Poverty Study to be conducted by Irish Aid will provide baseline data by
December 1999.



Annex I
Page 2 of 17
2. Primary and Secondary        2.1 Integrated national framework on primary  2.1 Approved policy     GOL commitment to curriculum
Education                           education curriculum and assessment         document              reform
Increased number of Basotho         approved by December 2001
passing through education system,
graduating with skills enabling them  2.2 System of teacher development and support   2.2 LCE records/  Teachers willing to use skills
to meet labor market demand         strengthened by December 2001              Inspectorate reports   acquired
2.3 Additional facilities provided and operational  2.3 EFU records   Communities/schools willing to
December 2002                                                     take increased responsibility for
construction
2.4 School-level management strengthened   2.4 Inspectorate reports/
December 2001                              Records of meetings/    All stakeholders (especially
PU/Inspectorate Reports  churches) willing to collaborate
2.5 Targeted Equity Based Program developed    2.5 Number of poor     Change in cultural attitudes toward
and operational by December 2000            students provided with   schooling
bursaries
3. TVET                         3.1 Skills needs assessment for the national  3.1 Report completed    Reliable information available
Fmployment of skilled Basotho in    economy completed by December 2000
the national and regional labor
market increased                3.2 Tripartite management structure operational   3.2 List of board members/  All stakeholders willing to
by December 2001                            Minutes of meetings   collaborate
3.3 National guidelines and procedures for  3.3 Procedure manualV     All stakeholders willing to use
TVET reformed and operational by           TVD records            guidelines
December 2001
3.4 Training records/
3.4 Organizational, personnel and physical     Procurement records
capacities to develop and initiate reforms
upgraded by December 2002
4. Non-Formal Education         4.1 Basic community needs and priorities for  4.1 Act passed by       GOL commitment
Targeted groups of unskilled       Basotho without skills identified by December  Parliament and gazetted
Basotho trained and actively       1999                                         by responsible Minister  All providers/stakeholders willing
contributing to economic                                                                              to collaborate
development and social stability  4.2 NFE policy approved by GOL and        4.2 NFE/MOE records
operational by December 2000                                       Reliable information available
4.3 NFE institutional structures streamlined by    4.3 Training records
June 2001
4.4 Staff capacity of those engaged in NFE  4.4 Report completed      Staff willing to use skills acquired
strengthened by June 2001



Annex I
Page 3 of 17
S. Institutional Reforms        5.1 System of aligning budget allocation to  5 1 PER report and MTEF/  GOL commitment to using MTEF
Strategic decisionmaking made   priorities established and operational by April  Budget estimates and
more effective and efficient through   2002 and annually thereafter         actuals                   Appropriate personnel hired
increased capacity in planning,
budgeting and implementing      5.2 Efficient system of internal budgeting  5.2 Staffing level for
controls and reporting in place by April 2000  PU/Accounts Section
and unqualified audits
5.3 Enhanced EMIS system developed and     5.3 Baseline data providcd   MOE staff willing to use EMIS
operational by December 1999                                       data for decisionmaking
5.4 System of awarding demand-driven training   5.4 Training records  Management and staff willing to
operational by December 2000                                       not view training as a reward



Annex 1
Page 4 of 17
B. Logframe for ECD Component of ESDP 11 (1999 - 2002)
Narrative Summary                      Measurable Indicators                 Monitoring & Supervision        Assumptions/Risks
Supergoal                                                                                                      Assumptions
Poverty reduced                10% more Basotho living above poverty line by 201 1    Household survey         Political stability
Poverty assessment data      Labor intensive
investments/self-
employment opportunities
Program Goal                                                                                                   Assumptions
More Basotho better educated,  10% more skilled labor positions filled by Basotho in    Labor market surveys  Investment flows into
actively employed both regionally  local and regional labor market by 2011                                     Lesotho
and locally and participating in
community leadership roles                                                                                     Free movement of Basotho
regionally
Project Development Objective
ECD coverage for Basotho aged    Policies for implementing comprehensive ECD     Approved policy documents     GOL and ECD providers
3-5 years old expanded and an  programs, with clear roles for GOL and providers                               willing to cooperate and are
increased percentage of children    defined, operational by December 2001                                     committed
enrolling in primary education
better prepared and at the right
age
Outputs                        1.1 Needs assessment for MOE's ECD Umit completed   1.1 Completed report        GOL commitment
1. National policy framework for  by December 1999
ECD established and operational
1.2 Staffing levels identified and recruitment completed  1.2 MOE records
by June 2000
1.3 Policy memo on ECD approved by the Ministry by   1.3 Approved policy document
Lesotho has no official absolute poverty line. For the purposes of this project, we set 2 relative poverty lines:  We charactenrzc as poor households whose
members consume less than half of the mean consumption level. We characterize as ultra poor, households that spend less than 25% of the mean consumption
level. A household with a spending level at the first poverty line would probably need to spend about 51% of its total household budget to get a basic adult daily
diet of 2500 calories. A household at the second, ultra poor line would need to spend its whole budget to get the same diet and caloric intake. In 1993, nearly
half of all Basotho households were poor, while more than a quarter fell in the category of ultra poor.  Of the poor population, nearly 90% live in rural
households. Changes in poverty status are not systematically monitored, as there is no system to periodically update data on poverty in Lesotho. However, this
is being addressed by the Community Development Support Project. In addition, a Poverty Study to be conducted by Irish Aid will provide baseline data by
December 1999.



Annex 1
Page 5 of 17
June 2001
1.4 Action plan for ECD expansion, with a focus on the  1.4 MOE records
most disadvantaged conmmunities, completed by
December 2001
1.5 Institutional framework for ECD staffing and  1.5 ECD Unit/MOE records
training, centrally and at community-level, in place
by January 2002
2. ECD curriculum designed and   2.1 Steering Group on ECD curriculum established,  2.1 Minutes of meetings; list of  Agreement of major
disseminated                      comprised of representatives from GOL and ECD  Steering Group members        stakeholders
providers, by December 1999
2.2 Policy memo on ECD curriculum approved by the    2.2 Approved policy document
Minister by December 2000
2.3 Advocacy campaign on the new curriculum       2.3 MOE records
launched by June 2001
2.4 Curriculum disseminated by December 2001      2.4 MOE records
3. Training program developed    3.1 Needs assessment for ECD trainers, teachers and  3.1 Completed report     ECD providers willing to
for ECD trainers, teachers and     providers completed by June 2000                                            participate and give accurate
providers                                                                                                      information
3.2 Program of ECD training developed by June 2001    3.2 Completed training manual
4. Low cost, community-based   4.1 Pilot program tested in selected villages in two  4.1 MOE records           Communities willing to
ECD programs pilot tested in      isolated, disadvantaged districts completed by                               participate in pilot-testing
targeted districts                December 2001.
4.2 Results of pilot analyzed by June 2002        4.2 MOE records
I                                          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 1
Page 6 of 17
C. Logframe for Primary and Secondary Education Component of ESDP 11 (1999-2002)
Narrative Summary              Measurable Indicators                               Monitoring & Supervision  Assumptions   
Supergoal
Poverty reduced                10% more Basotho living above the poverty line by   Household survey             Political stability
2011 
Poverty assessment data      Labor intensive
investments/self-
employment opportunities
Program Goal
More Basotho better educated,   10% more skilled labor positions filled by Basotho in  Labor market surveys     Investment flows into
actively employed both regionally  local and regional labor market by 2011                                      Lcsotho
and locally and participating in
community leadership roles                                                                                      Free movement of Basotho
regionally
Project Development Objective
Increased number of Basotho    1. Net enrollment rate in Standards 1-7 increased to 73%   1. PU/EMIS records    Political stability
passing through education system,    by January 2002
graduating with skills enabling  2. Student pass rate on PSLE increased by 5% from 1999  2. ECOL records        Further education available
them to meet labor market         baseline data by December 2001
demand
Outputs                        1.1 Policy memo on primary education curriculum and  1. I Approved policy        GOL commitment
1. Integrated nationalframework   assessment approved by the Minister by January 2001  document
on primary education curriculum
and assessment approved         1.2 Curriculum framework revised on basis of the   1.2 Training reports         Teachers committed to
approved national policy for primary education                                teaching and willing to use
curriculum and assessment by December 2001                                    skills and knowledge
acquired
* Lesotho has no official absolute poverty line. For the purposes of this project, we set 2 relative poverty lines:  We charactenrze as poor households whose
members consume less than half of the mean consumption level. We characterize as ultra poor households that spend less than 25% of the mean consumption
level. A household with a spending level at the first poverty line would probably need to spend about 51% of its total household budget to get a basic adult daily
diet of 2500 calories. A household at the second, ultra poor line would need to spend its whole budget to get the same diet and caloric intake. In 1993, nearly
half of all Basotho households were poor, while more than a quarter fell in the category of ultra poor.  Of the poor population, nearly 90% live in rural
households. Changes in poverty status are not systematically monitored, as there is no system to periodically update data on poverty in Lesotho. However, this
is being addressed by the Community Development Support Project. In addition, a Poverty Study to be conducted by Irish Aid will provide baseline data by
December 1999.



Annex 1
Page 7 of 17
1.3 NCDC strengthened through staff development by  1.3 Training reports      Qualified consultants
January 2001                                                                available
1.4 Regional HIV/AIDS materials adapted and integrated  1.4 ECOL records
into curriculum at primary and secondary levels by
2001
1.5 Guidelines for continuous assessment at the primary   1.5 Training reports
school level developed by December 2001
1.6 ECOL strengthened through appropriate twinning  1.6 Training reports and
arrangement and staff development by December     contract for twinning
2001                                              arrangement
1.7 National testing and assessment designed and piloted  1.7 Exam records
by 2001
1.8 Teacher's manual for primary science kit produced    1.8 Exam records
and 1,300 primary teachers trained in the use of
science kit by 2002
1.9 PSLE & JC item bank established and upgraded by    1.9 ECOL records
2002
2. System of teacher development  2.1 In-service distance teacher education program  2.1 LCE records         Qualified TA available
and support strengthened         (DTEP) Certificate and Diploma program developed
by January 2001
2.2 DTEP leamer support system developed by 2001  2.2 LCE records
Teachers and principals
2.3 DTEP Certificate program implemented from August  2.3 LCE admission and   committed to upgrading
2001: 500 unqualified teachers/100 principals     graduation records        skills
admitted annually into 2-year program in January
2001 and January 2002
2.4 Short-term training of 40 in-service tutors and long    2.4 Training reports
term training of 2 in-service tutors in DTEP by 2002
2.5 HIV/AIDS component of teacher training curriculum   2.5 Annual in-servicing
strengthened by 2000                              program



Annex 1
Page 8 of 17
2.6 Coordination of continuous in-service programs  2.6 Inspection Manual
(including multi-grade teaching methods)
strengthened and in-service programs implemented
annually from 2000
2.7 System of school inspection reviewed and       2.7 Training reports
recommendations implemented by 2001
Inspectorate committed to
2.8 Field and central inspectorate strengthened by 2001    2.8 EMIS records     reform
3. A dditionalfacilities provided    3.1       2000   2001    2002                 3.1 EFU records and inspector  GOL counterpart funding
and operational                New classroom                                         reports, MOE annual        available
Standards 1-7    70      70     60                    statistics
Local construction capacity
3.2 Additional 100 science kits provided by December                            expanded
1999 & all furniture and equipment provided by  3.2 same as 3.1
December 2001
3.3 Twenty-six (26) existing student hostels refurbished
& in use by December 2000                        3.3 same as 3. 1
4. School-level management     4.1 All primary and secondary schools have established a  4.1 Inspector reports and MOE  Churches willing to support
strengthened                      school committee and each approved by MOE by        records                   school governance and
1999                                                                         management
4.2 75% of primary and secondary school management    4.2 Training reports      Parental commitment to
committees trained in management and financial                                school management
matters by December 2000 (assessed independently)
4.3 Policy guidelines established on primary and   4.3 Approved policy
secondary school fees by December 2000             document
4.4 System of accountability designed to monitor and  4.4 audit reports and inspector
regulate the use of school fees by June 2001 (for  reports
implementation January 2002)
5. Targeted Equity Based       5. 1 Studies determining extentAlocation of disadvantaged   5.1 Study report     Communities willing to
Program (TEBP)                    groups completed by December 1999                                             participate in studies
developed and operational
5.2 Targeted equity based pilots designed by December    5.2 Designed programs
2000 for implementation in 2001
5.3 Awareness & bursaries information campaign for  5.3 MOE records
targeted communities launched by December 1999
5.4 Bursaries provided to Standards 1-10 students from  5.4 MOE records         Change in cultural attitudes



Annex 1
Page 9 of 17
disadvantaged communities, commencing by                                      toward schooling
December 2000
5.5 Mechanism for Monitoring & Evaluation of TEBP set 5.5 MOE records
up by December 2000



Annex 1
Page IO of 17
D. Logframe for TVET Component of ESDP 11 (1999-2002)
Narrative Summary                      Measurable Indicators                Monitoring & Supervision       Assumptions/Risks
Supergoal                                                                                                    Assumptions
Poverty reduced                10% more Basotho living above poverty line by 2011'   Household survey        Political stability
Poverty assessment data      Labor intensive
investments/
Self-employment
______________                                opportunities
Program Goal                                                                                                 Assumptions
More Basotho better educated,  10% more skilled labor positions filled by Basotho in    Labor market surveys  Investment flows into
actively employed both regionally  local and regional labor market by 2011                                   Lesotho
and locally and participating in
community leadership roles                                                                                   Free movement of Basotho
regionally
Project Development Objective   5% increase in the number of Basotho employed in the   Employment statistics  Assumptions
Employment of skilled Basotho in  formal sector in Lesotho and the regional labor market                     GOL willing to reduce
the national and regional labor  by 2002                                                                     bureaucracy on business
market increased                                                                                             formation and practices
Restraints on investment
removed
Good economic growth
Stable banking and credit
available
Lesotho has no official absolutc poverty line. For the purposes of this project, we set 2 relative poverty lines: We characterize as poor households whose
members consume less than half of the mean consumption level. We characterize as ultra poor, households that spend less than 25% of the mean consumption
level. A household with a spending level at the first poverty line would probably need to spend about 51% of its total household budget to get a basic adult daily
diet of 2500 calories. A household at the second, ultra poor line would need to spend its whole budget to get the same diet and caloric intake. In 1993, nearly
half of all Basotho households were poor, while more than a quarter fell in the category of ultra poor.  Of the poor population, nearly 90% live in rural
households. Changes in poverty status are not systematically monitored, as there is no system to periodically update data on poverty in Lesotho. However, this
is being addressed by the Community Development Support Project. In addition, a Poverty Study to be conducted by Irish Aid will provide baseline data by
December 1999.



Annex I
Page 11 of 17
Outputs
1. Skills needs assessment     1 1 Skills needs assessment for the national economy  1.1 / 1 2 Reports completed  Assumptions
completedfor the national         completed by January 2000                                                  Reliable information
economy.                                                                                                     available
1.2 Skills needs assessments completed for 3 selected
industries by June 2000.                                                   Risks
Skills needs assessment
becomes an attempt at
manpower planning
2. Tripartite management      2.1 Interim TVET Board established by June 1999   2.1 Minutes of meetings      Assumptions
structure in place andfunctioning                                                                            Employers, GOL and unions
2.2 New TVET Act in place by June 2000           2.2 Act passed by Parliament   willing to participate
and gazetted by responsible
Minister                 Risks
Industry involvement only
2.3 A new management structure made up of        2.3 List of board members/    token
representatives of employers, employees and GOL    Minutes of meetings
established and operational by December 2001                               GOL accepts only a weak
form of advisory board
2.4 Three industrial Advisory Committees established    2.4 List of Committee
by December 1999                                 Members
3. National guidelines and    3. 1 Methodology for setting and disseminatng training   3.1 Procedures manual  Assumptions
proceduresfor 7VET reformed       standards and examinations prepared and applied by                          GOL committed to creating
and operational                   December 2000                                                              a demand-driven training
system
3.2 Enhanced accreditation guidelines prepared and  3.2 TVD records
applied by December 2001                                                   GOL willing to rationalize
resource allocation
3.3 Qualifications framework developed and functioning  3.3 Policy document
by June 2002                                                               Regional and local
employers willing to accept
3.4 Macro level model for financial management and    3.4 TVD records/Procedurcs    qualifications system
performance monitoring of the TVET system,       manual
including options for sustainable funding developed                        Risks
and ready for implementation by June 2002                                  Qualifications framework
too complicated
Accreditation used to limit
rather than foster private
providers



Annex I
Page 12 of 17
4. Organizational, personnel and   4.1 Restructuring of TVD completed by June 2000  4.1 TVD records           Assumptions
physical capacities to develop and                                                                           Agencies (TVD, TVB)
initiate reforms upgraded     4.2 Long and short-term training for TVD/TVET staff   4.2 Training records     remain efficient
completed by December 2002
Individual training centers
4.3 Management and financial control systems in place   4.3 Institutional records  have capacity for proper
and operating in TVD and TVET institutions by                              financial controls
June 2000
4.4 Equipment to strengthen TVD procured by June  4.4 Procurement records
2002
4.5 Workshops for all stakeholders held through out  4.5 Record of workshops/
Phase I                                          Participant lists



Annex 1
Page 13 of 17
E. Logframe for Non-Formal Education Component of ESDP 11 (1999 - 2002)
Narrative Summary                     Measurable Indicators                Monitoring & Supervision          Assumptions
Supergoal
Poverty reduced                  10% more Basotho living above the poverty line by    Household survey        Political stability
2011*
Poverty assessment data       Labor intensive
investments!
self-employment
______________________________ __________________________________________opopoortunttee
Program Goal
More Basotho better educated,    10% more skilled labor positions filled by Basotho in  Labor market surveys  Investment flows into
actively employed both regionally    local and regional labor market by 2011                                  Lcsotho
and locally and participating in
community leadership roles                                                                                    Free movement of
Basotho regionally
Project Development Objective
Targeted groups of unskilled Basotho  Policies for implementing comprehensive NFE  Approved policy documents  GOL commitment
trained and actively contributing to   programs operational by December 2001
economic development and social
stability
Outputs                          1.1 NFE policy revised and approved by the    1. I Draft paper               GOL commitment
1.NFE policy approved by GOL and    responsible Minister by December 2000
operational
1.2 NFE Act approved by GOL and operational by    1.2 Act passed by Parliament and
December 2001                                 gazetted by responsible
Minister
Lesotho has no official absolute poverty line. For the purposes of this project, we set 2 relative poverty lines: We characterize as poor households whose
members consume less than half of the mean consumption level. We characterize as ultra poor, households that spend less than 25% of the mean consumption
level. A household with a spending level at the first poverty line would probably need to spend about 51% of its total household budget to get a basic adult daily
diet of 2500 calories. A household at the second, ultra poor line would need to spend its whole budget to get the same diet and caloric intake. In 1993, nearly
half of all Basotho households were poor, while more than a quarter fell in the category of ultra poor.  Of the poor population, nearly 90% live in rural
households. Changes in poverty status are not systematically monitored, as there is no system to periodically update data on poverty in Lesotho. However, this
is being addressed by the Community Development Support Project. In addition, a Poverty Study to be conducted by Irish Aid will provide baseline data by
December 1999.



Annex 1
Page 14 of 17
2. NFE institutional structures    2.1 Interim NFE Council established by December    2.1 Minutes of Council Meetings   All stakeholders
streamlined                            1999                                                                            willing to collaborate
2.2 Operating guidelines in use by all stakeholders    2.2 Manual on guidelines
by June 2000
2.3 Options for sustainable funding identified, agreed  2.3 Report and MOE budget
and disseminated by December 2000
3. Staff capacity of those engaged in   3.1 Staff training needs identified by June 2000  3.1 List of training needs    Staff willing to use
AIFE strengthened                                                                                                      skills acquired
3.2 Capacity of MOE/NFE Section for planning,    3.2 / 3.3 Training records
programming regulating and monitoring
enhanced by June 2001
3.3 Capacity of NFE providers enhanced by June
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   .2001                                          __
4. Basic community needs and       4.1 Houselhold surveys and focus groups completed    4.1 List of priorities         Commiunities'
priorities for Basotho without skills  and results disseminated by June 2002                                           willingniess to
identified                                                                                                             participate
4.2 Priorities, phasing and financial implications  4.2 Record of consultations/
outlined and agreed by June 2002                 Budget                        Reliable information
_______ _______________________    ______._______.________._______.________ _______ ____________________ _    available



Annex 1
Page 15 of 17
F. Logframe for Institutional Reforms of ESDP 11 (1999 - 2002)
Narrative Summary               Measurable Indicators                           Monitoring &Supervision        Assumptions
Supergoal
Poverty reduced                  10% more Basotho living above the poverty line by    Household survey         Political stability
2011'
Poverty assessment data        Labor intensive
investments/self-
-employment oppitunities
Program Goal
More Basotho better educated,    10% more skilled labor positions filled by Basotho in   Labor market surveys  Investment flows into
actively employed both regionally   local and regional labor market by 2011                                    Lesotho
and locally and participating in
community leadership roles                                                                                     Free movement of
___________________________ _ .Basotho  regionally
Project Development Objective
Strategic decisionmaking made   Sub-sectoral allocations rationalized and based on  MTEF report/Budget estimate and  Political stability
more effective and efficient through   GOL priorities and underpinned by accurate data by    cxpenditures/ EMIS data
increased capacity in planning,  2002                                                                          Continued economic
budgeting and implementing                                                                                     growth
Outputs
1. System of aligning budget    1.1 PER completed by MOE by April 2000          1.1 PER report                 GOL commitment to
allocation to priorities established                                                                           using MTEF methodology
and in use                       1.2 MTEF establishcd and operational; at least 70%    1.2 MTEF report/Budget
of education recurrent budget allocated to primary  estimate/budget actuals
and secondary education by April 2001 and
onwards
Lesotho has no official absolute poverty line. For the purposes of this project, we set 2 relative poverty lines: We characterize as poor households whose
members consume less than half of the mean consumption level. We characterize as ultra poor, households that spend less than 25% of the mean consumption
level. A household with a spending level at the first poverty line would probably need to spend about 51% of its total household budget to get a basic adult daily
diet of 2500 calories. A household at the second, ultra poor line would need to spend its whole budget to get the same diet and caloric intake. In 1993, nearly
half of all Basotho households were poor, while more than a quarter fell in the category of ultra poor.  Of the poor population, nearly 90% live in rural
households. Changes in poverty status are not systematically monitored, as there is no system to periodically update data on poverty in Lesotho. However, this
is being addressed by the Community Development Support Project. In addition, a Poverty Study to be conducted by Irish Aid will provide baseline data by
December 1999.



Annex 1
Page 16 of 17
2. F.f ciency in financial resource    2.ccounts Section of PU/MOE strengthened   2.1 Recruitment and training    Appropriate personnel
utilization improved                through recruitment and training by December     records                      hired
1999
Staff willing to use skills
2.2 New system of reporting and financial       2.2 Financial reports           acquired
management established and operational by
December 1999                                                                MOE willing to use new
financial system
3. Enhanced system of EMIS       3.1 EMIS system upgraded by December 1999        3.1 EMIS records                MOE management and
developed and in use                                                                                              staff willing to use EMIS
3.2 Personnel at the district and school-levels trained   3.2 PU/lnspectorate's reports  data for decisionmaking
to use new forms by December 1999
3.3 Initial baseline information provided by    3.3 Same as 3.1
December 1999
3.4 Personnel in MOE trained to analyze EMIS data   3.4 Training records
and to use it for policy decisions by December
1999
4. System of awarding demand-    4.1 Needs assessment for MOE conducted annually    4.1 Report (PU)               MOE management and
driven training operational                                                                                       staff willing to not view
4.2 Demand-driven training plan developed and   4.2 Training records            training as a reward
implemented annually



Annex 1
Page 17 of 17
Attachment to Annex 1
Trigger Indicators for moving from Phase I to Phase II
Components                          Trigger Indicators                              Means of Verification
Primary and Secondary  1. Net enrollment rate in Standards 1-7 increased to 73% by   1. EMIS
Education                 January 2002
2. Mid-term expcnditure framework being used consistently;  2. Successful preparation and application of PERs
70% of education recurrent budget allocated and      for two year; GOL budget; records of NUL and
confirmed through actual expenditures to primary and  other post-secondary institutions
secondary education for April 2001 and onwards
3. At least 75% of School Advisory and Management    3. EMIS data; Inspectors records; Consultant's
Committees for primary and secondary schools        independent evaluation
functioning satisfactorily by December 2001 (assessed
independently)
Technical and           5. Technical and Vocational Education Act in place by  5. Act passed by Parliament; gazetted by
Vocational Education      December 2001                                        responsible minister
6. A financial management and performance system for  6. TVD records
TVET in place by June 2002
Non-formal Education    7. NFE Act approved; operational guidelines issued and  7. Act passcd by Parliament; gazetted by
options defined by December 2001                     responsible minister; manual on guidelines



Annex 2
Page 1 of 6
LESOTHO
Second Education Sector Development Project (1999-2002)
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
The project aims to increase the number of Basotho that benefit from the education system and graduate
with skills enabling them to meet labor market demand. The GOL has identified four priority areas, and
the project is designed to focus on these four sub-sectors: early childhood development (ECD); primary
and secondary education; technical and vocational education and training (TVET); and non-formal
education (NFE). In primary and secondary education, capacity building and investments will start right
away in six areas: (a) curriculum and assessment, (b) teacher development and support, (c) classroom
construction, (d) school-level management, (e) a targeted equity-basedprogram, and (f) capacity building
in planning, monitoring, and evaluation. In the sub-sectors ECD, TVET and NFE, the project will
initially finance only policy formulation and capacity building activities.
Project Component 1: Early Childhood Development - US$0.4 million (IDA funding: US$0.4
million)
Under Phase I of this project, the GOL will develop policy options to widely increase coverage and
improve quality for ECD programs. Currently, the ECD Unit in the MOE is understaffed and lacks the
capacity to oversee policy reform and serious expansion of coverage. Therefore, the project will support
a needs assessment of the ECD Unit and recruitment will be carried out accordingly. This Unit, working
with ECD providers as appropriate, will manage the policy work which will lay the groundwork for ECD
expansion and improvement.
During Phase I, the ECD Unit will prepare a policy memo for approval by the MOE. The resultant policy
framework will clearly define roles for GOL and non-governmental providers in the ECD sub-sector. The
GOL does not directly provide ECD services and will therefore continue encouraging community-based
programs. However, to ensure a well-planned and equitable expansion, the GOL will establish a national
monitoring and evaluation framework for ECD programs. A Steering Group, comprising GOL and ECD
providers, will manage the process of designing an age-appropriate curriculum for ECD, which will also
strengthen linkages to the primary school curriculum. This ECD curriculum will better prepare children
for the transition into primary school and result in a decreased repetition and drop-out rate, especially at
the lower levels. The project will also develop an upgraded and expanded training program for ECD
trainers and teachers.
Under the project, a feasibility study will be conducted to explore the possibility of attaching community-
run ECD centers to primary schools, particularly in the inaccessible areas. Under Phase I, low-cost
community-based models will be pilot tested in two of the more isolated districts. The policy work
outlined above, in conjunction with the results of the pilot tests, will forn the basis for deciding how to
expand ECD coverage, especially to reach the most disadvantaged, isolated communities, during Phases
II and III.
Project Component 2: Primary and Secondary Education - US$23.4 million (IDA funding: US$18.7
million)
Under this component, the project will finance six sub-components to increase access and equity and
enhance quality and efficiency of primary and secondary education. A combination of comprehensive
and targeted approaches will be used.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
1.1 Curriculum andAssessment
A number of ongoing changes have placed the National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC) and the
Examination Council of Lesotho (ECOL) under great pressure. These changes include revisions of
primary level curriculum, transfer of the Primary School Leaving Certificate (PSLE) to ECOL, and
the move toward localizing end-of-secondary examinations. In addition, both institutions currently plan
without the guidance of clear policies. Therefore, this sub-component will give priority to developing a
national framework for curriculum and assessment. The project will give first priority to developing a
framework for primary education and only later in Phase I will work begin on the framework for
secondary education. In the absence of a standing bodv responsible for such policy formulation, a newly
established National Curriculum and Assessment Working Group will coordinate consultations and
prepare the national curriculum framework for GOL approval.
This framework will prescribe the compulsory subjects for each phase of education and assign them an
appropriate "weighting." It will also indicate any supplementary subjccts needed and provide
recommendations for the overall structure and balance of the curriculum. The framework will prescribe
the purposes and timing of formal national assessments and examinations. Subsequently, NCDC and
ECOL will be responsible for the detailed development of the proposed curricula and schemes of external
assessment, respectively. Regional HIV/AIDS education materials will be adapted and integrated into the
curriculum.
NCDC has already done substantial work on developing new curricula for primary education. It is based
on the recommendations of a conference on "Clarification of National Goals for Basic Education in
Lesotho" held in 1992. These recommendations led to an increase in the number of subjects taught and
examined in primary school. The MOE may need to review this change in light of the new national
curriculum policy. In addition, new curricula will be developed for secondary education. In order to carry
out this work, NCDC capacity requires strengthening. This will be achieved mainly through staff
development.
A reinforced role and strengthened staff capacity will better enable ECOL to implement the national
examinations and assessment framework. The project will address these issues by augmenting the legal
status of ECOL and clarifying its responsibility by enacting appropriate legislation; building
administrative and professional capacity through staff development; and increasing efficiency by
introducing new systems and technologies.
The project will support ECOL with sustained, professional assistance through a twinning arrangement
with an international assessment agency or institution. The twinning agreement will be structured to
establish a two-way flow of information. Under contract, the "twin" will assist ECOL by supplying
training and other services through regular visits and continuous support at a distance. In addition, ECOL
staff will participate in study tours and visits to the twin institution in order to gain first-hand knowledge
of its promising practices.
There is a growing need for studies which gather and report reliable data on leamer achievement,
particularly in the primary schools. One avenue which the project will explore is developing ECOL's
capacity to conduct National Assessments internally and in collaboration with the Testing and Evaluation
unit of NCDC. ECOL's twin will orchestrate the first such study in order to provide baseline data for
monitoring project impact.
1.2 Teacher Development and Support
Lesotho's primary and secondary education sub-sectors demand more and better trained teachers. As of
1996, the average primary student-teacher ratio was 48:1. Out of the primary teaching force of 7,900,
4,300 are underqualified or unqualified teachers. Furthermore, most teachers require additional training



Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
or studies to improve their classroom practices as well as subject knowledge. The project will support the
development of a Distance Teacher Education Program (DTEP) that consists of a 2-year Certificate and a
1-2 year Diploma program. The DTEP will differ from traditional teacher education in its delivery
mechanism. For example, rather than being college-based and academically oriented, the DTEP will be
classroom-based and activity-oriented. With a carefully dcvcloped set of materials and a strong learner
support system, student teachers will participate in the program through a combination of self-study,
classroom practice and coaching from tutors, without having to leave the schools where thev teach.
The DTEP will also improve upon the existing program in that (a) the length of training required will be
reduced from 3.5 years to 2 years for the Certificate Program, (b) certified teachers will have the option of
progressing to the Diploma level with an additional 1-2 vears of stud',. (c) the annual intake will be
increased from 200 to 500 teachers, (d) the existing in-servicing for headmasters will be upgraded, and
(e) most of the training activities will be conducted in the teachers' own schools. The DTEP will reduce
the unit cost of teacher training in the long run, improve the effectiveness of training and enhance
teachers' classroom teaching skills. In addition, HIV/AIDS education will be incorporated into the
existing teacher education program.
The Inspectorate/MOE has overall responsibility for in-service training of teachers based on identified
needs. However, the LCE and the NUL also provide in-service courses and seminars for teachers as
requested by MOE. In an effort to strengthen the Inspectorate's role as coordinator, the project will
establish an In-service Teacher Training Committee consisting of members from MOE, LCE and NUL.
The Committee will manage the coordination and implementation of all in-service programs, especially
focusing on multi-grade teaching and continuous assessment.
The program aims to achieve universal primary education (UPE) by the end of Phase III. As outlined in
the policy simulation model (see Annex 4 for more detail), this will require a significant increase in the
number of teachers. In order for the system to produce these additional teachers, the GOL will need to
expand its capacity to train teachers during Phase 1. For example, annual recruitment for primary teachers
will need to rise from around 550 currently to around 1,800 by 2011/12. In addition, means of attracting
and retaining teachers in remote areas will be required to expand access to education for the marginalized
children living in the isolated areas. The provision of a monthly hardship allowance (R250) to teachers
serving in these areas has been successful and will be maintained.
1.3 Physical Construction
Despite the consistent efforts of the GOL and its development partners to construct additional classrooms,
a serious shortage remains, especially at the primary level. The Education Facilities Unit (EFU) of the
MOE has reported that in each district where it builds classrooms, enrollment subsequently increases at a
rapid pace and almost immediately the demand for classrooms once again outweighs supply. This
demonstrates the consistent and growing demand for classrooms, particularly in the more remote areas of
the country.  The MOE has identified six priority districts for classroom construction:  Mafeteng,
Mohale's Hoek, Mokhotlong, Quthing, Qacha's Nek and Thaba Tseka. The GOL selected these six
districts based on their levels of poverty and remoteness of location. The ADB will build classrooms in
the latter three districts and Phase I of ESDP II will concentrate its primary classroom construction to the
former three distnrcts. First priority will be given to the 33 inaccessible schools (approximately 80
classrooms). Upon completion of those remote schools, the Bank will support classroom construction of
some accessible schools in those three districts. Other districts will be covered in future phases. In order
to expand the capacity of LCE, 26 student hostels will be rehabilitated.
1.4 School-level Management
Church organizations own almost 90% of primary and 80% of secondary schools in Lesotho.
Traditionally, there has been conflict between the GOL, which is paying for teachers and capital



Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
development, and the churches, which theoretically own these schools. By setting up School Committees
comprised of representatives from parents, teachers, and the churches, the GOL hopes to minimize this
tension. The establishment of the School Committees began under the ongoing project. However, partly
due to the tensions already mentioned and partly due to delays in enacting the new Education Ac t, not all
primary and secondary schools have set up a committee.
This project will assist in translating, interpreting and disscminating the Education Act and completing
the process of establishing School Committees. Schools have annual budgets but limited ability in
budgeting and financial control. Thus, the project will support training of all primary and secondary
School Committees (approximately 1.500) on general management as well as financial management and
will also establish accountability systems during training.  Schools where classrooms are to be
constructed, especially in inaccessible areas, will be targeted to receive the training first. This training
will build greater community involvement during the process of classroom construction as well as
creating long-term ownership of the facilities.
The project will also support the rationalization of school fees, which currently differ greatly from school
to school. Following completion of a study on school fecs and wide consultation with key stakeholders,
the project will develop national guidelines for charging fees.
1.5 Targeted Equity-Based Program
Reaching remote communities remains a difficult challenge for Lesotho's education system. Poverty,
geography, culture and the perceived low value of education often prevent children living in those
isolated areas from participating in formal schooling. To compound the problem, their schools also have
the poorest physical facilities, with most classes held in a church hall, a chiefs house or in the open.
When children from these areas do enroll, it tends to be at a much later age than other children and they
often drop out of school prematurely. One example is the situation of the herd boys. Typically, many
rural Basotho boys learn to herd the cattle, sheep or goats at a very young age and then migrate to work in
the mines of South Africa once they get older. While this may have been profitable in the past,
constricting opportunities in the South African mines and the expanding demand for skilled labor means
that it will not remain so.  Educating these marginalized children will contribute greatly to the
overarching goal of achieving long-term economic and social stability.
At present, attempts to reach these children are mostly conducted under the framework of NFE.
However, the GOL recognizes the need to find innovative ways for these children to enter the education
system. This may mean adapting the formal system to meet the needs of disadvantaged groups. Initially,
a participatory study will be conducted to determine who are the disadvantaged groups, where they are,
why they are disadvantaged, and how they can be brought into classrooms. Based on the findings, a
combination of strategies such as bursaries, information campaigns and multi-shift classes may be
employed. Due to the novelty of such strategies in Lesotho, research and evaluation will be built into the
component to inform each stage of the project from design to monitoring and evaluation.
1.6 Capacity Building in Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
A problem underlying many of the challenges facing the education sector is the lack of capacity within
the MOE in policy making, planning and budgeting. To address this weakness, the project will conduct
short-term training for staff, with a focus on enhancing management skills.  In addition to staff
development activities, this sub-component of the project will also finance a review of public expenditure
on education and the establishment of an up-to-date education management information system (EMIS).



Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
(a) Public Expenditure Review and Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
Trends in sub-sectoral allocations of public education expenditures over the past five y'ears have not fully
reflected the MOE's stated priority for primary and secondary education. To permit the evaluation and
achievement of these and other cducational objectives, the project wvill support MOE in carrying out a
Public Expenditure Review (PER). The review will involve all key stakeholders and will provide a forum
to examine how sectoral expenditure patterns have contributed to achicving national objectives for
education. Specific issues to be addressed include:
*  concems about equal access, and actions to reach UPE
*  raising quality of education and curriculum reform
*  education's affordability for parents and a proposal to make primary education free
*  education's affordability for the GOL
*  extension of the basic education cycle from seven to ten vears
*  efficiency and the scope for cost savings at NUL
*  respective roles of the GOL and the private sector
*  management capabilities of providers
*  other issues identified by stakeholders.
The work will also review the extent to which present institutional arrangements support sector
objectives, and the extent to which the budgeting and financial management systems undermine or
facilitate effective and efficient resource utilization.
Based on this review and consultation with stakeholders, the MOE will develop an expenditure
framework for the medium term that reflects national priorities while taking into account prospective
resources available to the sector. On the basis of this framework, the MOE, again in consultation with
stakeholders, will identify policy and institutional changes required to implement the agreed framework.
Completing the PER process and agreeing on a program of actions for the future will be important
triggers for the next phase of the program. More importantly, the PER is expected to provide a forum
within which consensus can be built in country and progress can be monitored.
(b) Education Management Information System
The EMIS will be upgraded by modernizing the current system and speeding the processing and control
of information gathered at the primary and secondary level and, later in the program, the tertiary level.
The priority of this sub-component is by the end of 1999 to build the capacity to produce baseline project
data against which future improvements can be measured. In addition, under the project principals will be
trained on how to and complete the new forms and will become better informed about the formn's
importance and purpose. Staff in the MOE Planning Unit (PU/MOE) will continue with the training
program already initiated under the ongoing project so that once the baseline data is available, they will
have the capacity to use the data for policy making and decision making. A secondary objective will be
to encourage the integration of operational data from the various service units-accounting, personnel,
examinations (ECOL), the Teacher Service Department-as well as to direct it to District centers. This
integration will be achieved by holding workshops and training, and providing a Ministry-wide network
(e-mail, data exchange and Internet).
(c) Trainingfor MOE Staff
Enhancing MOE staff and institutional capacity will contribute to the sustainability and impact of the
program. During Phase I, needs assessments in several units of the MOE will be conducted and
subsequently recruitment completed and appropriate staffing levels maintained. Following the needs



Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
assessment, the MOE will develop and implement a demand-driven training plan. In particular, ESDP II
will support short-term management training courses for MOE personnel.
The project will also support measures to improve the efficiency of MOE's financial resource utilization.
This will be done through recruitment and training of key personnel in the Accounts Section of the
PU/MOE. Subsequently, the Accounts Section will establish a new system of reporting and financial
management.
Project Component 3: Technical and Vocational Education and Training - US$1.0 million (IDA
funding: US$1.0 million)
The project aims to improve the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the TVET system in order to better
train Basotho to compete locally and in regional niches and to ensure that graduates have the skills mix
demanded by the national economy. During Phase 1, activities will focus on developing the policy and
institutional framework for a revitalized and demand-driven system. This work will underpin investments
during future phases.
Specifically, Phase I will support a skills needs assessment nationwide as well as in three selected
industries:  garment and textile; hospitality (tourism); and building.  A newly created tripartite
management structure comprising representatives of employers, employees and government will oversee
the establishment of national guidelines and procedures for TVET reforms. It will also contribute to the
establishment of a qualifications framework and an enhanced accreditation system. Under the project, the
GOL will set up a financial management and performance monitoring system. Revised legislation on
TVET will support all of these policy developments. Finally, the organizational, personnel and physical
capacities to develop and initiate TVET reforms will be upgraded.
Project Component 4: Non-formal Education - US$0.4 million (IDA funding: US$0.4 million)
Under the NFE component, the program aims to improve the quality of life for Basotho who have missed
out on formal schooling by equipping them with skills. Phase I will work to define policies and priorities
for the non-formal sub-sector and outline a means for financing and sustaining these with a combination
of public and private resources. The policy development work in Phase I will support investment
decisions for Phase II. Specifically, the project will assist the GOL to revise its policy and promulgate an
NFE Act, followed by a revision of NFE institutional structures. The project component will enhance
institutional capacity by providing training for NFE/MOE staff in planning, programming, regulating and
monitoring. A household survey and focus groups with NFE clientele will determine the basic needs and
priorities of unskilled Basotho and assist the GOL to prioritize the problem of out-of-school youth. This
group has many basic education and literacy needs.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
LESOTHO
Second Education Sector Development Project (1999-2002)
Annex 3: Detailed Project Costs for Phase I (in US$ million)
Pro ject Component                                 Local             Foreign        Total
Primary and Secondary Education
Curriculum, testing and assessment                                  2.1            2.1
Teacher development and support                   -                 2.9            2.9
Physical construction                             1.0               8.8            9.8
School-level management                           -                 1.9            1.9
Targeted equity-based program                     1.0               0.2            1.2
Planning, monitoring and evaluation               3.7               1.8            5.5
Early Childhood Development                        -                 0.4            0.4
Technical and Vocational Education and Training    -                 1.0            1.0
Non-formal Education                               -                 0.4            0.4
Total Baseline Cost                                5.7               19.5           25.2
Physical Contingencies                                             0.3           0.3
Price Contingencies                                                0.2           0.2
Total Proiect Cost                                 5.7               21.0           26.7



Annex 4
Page 1 of 9
LESOTHO
Second Education Sector Development Project (1999-2002)
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis
Education Sector Overview
The extent to which the education system promotes social and economic development in a country
depends on a combination of the quantity and quality of its outcomes, as well as the system's efficiency
and accessibility. The allocation of public resources should serve to increase the number of children
reached, especially in the lower income groups, as well as support improvements in the quality and
efficiency of education delivered. Expenditure targeted to these ends will maximize the social retums to
investment in education.
Coverage and Efficiency. Table I shows the proportion of children in Lesotho aged 6 to 12 vears who
are enrolled in school. While school attendance has generally grown through the 1990s, this growth has
been considerably less than growth in the school age population. As a result, primary net enrollment rates
have fallen. The 1996 net enrollment rate for boys was about 12 percent lower than at the beginning of
the decade, while the 1996 girls net enrolment rate was nearly 17 percent lower than it was in 1990.
Several factors have been cited for this decline including retrenchment of Basotho workers in South
Africa's mines, which has reduced some families' ability to pay school fees; and the increasingly popular
decision by families to send thcir children to school in neighboring South Africa, where primary school
fees have been eliminated.
Table 1. Population of 6-12 Years of Age: School Enrollment Status
Age 6-12 in school        Population age 6-12      Percentage in school
Boys         Girls        Boys        Girls        Boys         Girls
1990         102,295      126,791      150,814     151,563      67.8%        83.7%
1992         111,112      136,286      163,437      161,004     68.0%        84.6%
1994         111,379      131,284      174,545     172,480      63.8%        76.1%
1996         112,742      130,279      188,203      186,885     59.9%        69.7%
Change \a    10.2%        2.8%         24.8%       23.3%        (11.7%)       (16.7%)
\a Percentage change from 1990 to 1996; parentheses denotes a negative number.
Source: Education Statistics, Ministry of Education
Lesotho's education system is characterized by significant internal inefficiency. Terminal efficiency-
defined as the ratio of the number of children that completed Standard 7 to new enrollments in Standard I
seven years before-improved in 1996 but remains only about 40 percent. While repetition rates have
improved over the 1990s, they remain high by regional standards (e.g., by comparison, 1995 regional
repetition rates include Namibia 17.7 percent, Malawi 15.1 percent, Botswana 3.5 percent, and Swaziland
15.6 percent). Drop-out rates fluctuate widely from year to year and are also relatively high. At the same
time, the number of classrooms and teachers have increased 39 percent and 22 percent.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 9
Table 2. Indicators for Primary School Performance
Primary      Terminal      Classrooms   Teachers      Drop-out      Repetition
Graduates    efficiency                               rates         rates
1990         21,133                      3,552        6,452         7.0           22.8
1992         26,623        33.9%         4,139        7,051         16.5          19.1
1994         27,042        32.2%         4,464        7,428         10.8          20.4
1996         30,280        39.5%         4,947        7,898         7.5           19.1
Change\a     43.0%                       39.3%        22.4%         7.1%          (16.2%)
\a Percentage change from 1990 to 1996; parentheses denotes a negative number.
Source: Education Statistics, Ministry of Education
Trends in secondary education are more positive.  Access to secondary education has improved
significantly in the 1990s with net enrollment rates climbing from 24 percent to 31 percent. Enrollment
growth has been strong among both girls and bovs. The number of classrooms and teachers have
increased in absolute terms, but at less than the pace in enrollment; as a result, the pupil-classroom and
pupil-teacher ratios have grown to 38.7 and 23.9, respectively.
Table 3. Indicators for Secondary School Performance
School year     Secondary    13-17 Population    Percentage    Classrooms       Teachers
Enrollment                      Enrolled
1990           46,301         191,928         24.1%            1,318          2,217
1992           51,895         199,841         26.0%            1,419          2,443
1994           61,615         208,081         29.6%            1,576           2,597
1996           67,454         216,661         31.1%            1,804           3,101
Change \a        45.7%           12.9%           29.0%           36.9%          39.9%
\a Percentage change from 1990 to 1996
Source: 1995 Education Statistics, Ministry of Education
Over 2,000 full time students are enrolled at the NUL. Contrary to the sectoral objectives highlighted in
MOE documents, NUL's share of public expenditures has been growing relative to primary and
secondary education. As a result, the unit cost of educating a tertiary student is 116 times the cost of
educating a primary student. Furthermore, public subsidies at higher levels of education are higher than
at primary and secondary levels. An in-depth analysis of the equity and efficiency of tertiary spending
has been proposed during Phase I of the APL and will be an integral part of the Public Expenditure
Review (PER).
The ESDP II aims to respond to the above education trends by arresting the decline in primary net
enrollment rates, improving the quality and efficiency of the primary and secondary system, and
sustaining the recent achievements in secondary education. Ultimately, one of the primary objectives of
the ESDP II is to achieve universal primary education by the end of Phase III of the APL. This objective
will require increasing the demand for education by implementing such measures as improving access in
remote areas through classroom construction, increasing the quality and relevance of education provision
and, perhaps, lowering or eliminating primary school fees. The intermediate and end targets of these and
other policy and programmatic initiatives, as well as their cost and sustainability, have been assessed
through a Policy Simulation Model that will be utilized and updated throughout ESDP II implementation.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 9
Lesotho's Education Development Strategy
Policy Simulation Model.  The primary objective of developing and maintaining an education
simulation model in Lesotho is to generate awareness among key stakeholders-GOL, NGOs, church,
district officials, parents-of the trade-offs between different policy options and to build consensus on
sustainable and efficient ways forward. A secondary benefit is to assist the project in determining the
medium- and long-term cost implications of the project itself, such as the recurrent cost implications of
envisaged increases in enrolment, teacher upgrading, etc. Important policv variables that were assessed
during appraisal include the enrollment and budgetary effect of reducing primary school fees, adopting a
more coherent and uniform policy on repetition, and changing primarv and secondarx student to teacher
ratios. Additional simulations are possible to model the effect of teacher upgrading, reductions in tertiary
subsidies and double-shift or multi-grading, and are planncd as an integral part of MTEF development
over the next several years.
Methodology. The Policy Simulation Model utilizes data from the 1997 Education Statistics and the
1996/97 Estimates of Recurrent Expenditure to model the educational environment and cxpenditurc
patterns present in 1996/97. Projecting from the 1996/97 base year, three alternativc policy scenarios are
tested. A Core Scenario illustrates the feasibility and financial implications of achieving universal
primary education by 2011, with an admission rate of 60 percent of children into junior secondary
education. The model first simulates student flows and, from this, teacher and classroom needs are
calculated. These needs then form the basis for estimating budgetary costs. Alternative scenarios were
then prepared as variations of this Core Scenario. The principal alternatives e.j mined were:
* Scenario II: Reduced Repetition Rates. Under this scenario, it is assumed that repetition rates in
primary and secondary education are lowered more rapidly to allow a more timely flow of students
through the system;
* Scenario III: Free Primary Education. This scenario shows the impact of reduced repetition and free
primary education.
Core Scenario (I): Attaining UPE by 2011. The Core Scenario defines universal primary education to
mean that, by 2011, all children will enter primary school at age 6 and will remain in school until they
have completed the seven-year primary cycle. The scenario assumes that repetition rates in primary
education will be halved from their present levels of around 20 percent to 10 percent by 2010, while
dropout rates will be reduced to zero. Sixty percent of children completing the primary cycle are assumed
to progress into secondary education (current transition is 54 percent), while secondary repetition rates
and dropout rates are cut in half. Student-teacher ratios are assumed to fall from 48-to-1 to 40-to-1 in
primary and increase from 25-to-I to 30-to-I in secondary education. Unit costs of teacher salaries reflect
no real increases in salary levels, but incorporate the cost of annual step advances for teachers from
1996/97 onward. Unit costs for classroom construction, books and other inputs are held at their 1996/97
levels in real terms. Finally, tertiary expenditure is modeled separately and is assumed to grow by 2.5
percent in real terms. The quantitative implications of this scenario are shown in the following table:



Annex 4
Page 4 of 9
Core Scenario 1: Attaining UPE by 2011
(Expenditures in Constant Maloti)
1996/97       2001/02        2006/07       2011/12
Primary Education
Enrollment
Numbersenrolledinpnmarv(allages)              368.895        412.527        515,505      654.277
Gross enrolment rate 1/                       94.6%          91.3%          98.4%         107%
Repetition rate                                19.9%         16.4%          12.5%         9.1%
Input requirements
Additional teachers required annually 2/       526            976            1,311        1,849
Additional classrooms required annually         68            324            488           684
Secondary Education
Enrollment
Numbers enrolled                              71,475         75.356         88,449       130,409
Gross enrolment rate 1/                        32%            29%            29%          37%
Repetition rate                                9.5%           8.1%           6.0%         4.5%
Input requirements
Additional teachers required annually 1/        0              83            300           483
Additional classrooms required annually         0              44            169           282
Total Education Expenditure (in '000 Maloti)   355,000        461,000        645,000       927,000
Recurrent                                     339,000       409,000        544,000       778,000
Capital                                       16,000         52,000         101,000      149,000
Annual growth in real expenditures                            5.5%           6.9%         7.5%
Share of Primary in total education            45%            51%            55%          56%
Share of Secondary in total education          24%            22%            22%          26%
Share of Tertiary in total education           28%            25%            20%           16%
Share of education in Total Gov't Expenditure 3/  25.1%        26.1%          29.9%        37.0%
1/ Gross enrollment rates are utilized in the model since age-standard specific information is not currently available
and GERs are more useful than net enrollment rates when analyzing budgetary implications. GERs initially drop
(from 94.6% in primary and 32% to 29%) as fewer overage students are found in the system after reductions in
repetition rates.
2/ Assumes an attrition rate of 5% for primary teachers and 3% for secondary teachers.
3/ Assumes total government expenditures grow in line with GDP growth at 3% per year.
Studentflows. To attain UPE, the number of children in primary school would need to grow by nearly 70
percent over the 15-year period (1996/97-2011/12). To bring primary schooling to all children, including
those in remote areas, much of the new construction of primary classrooms would have to be located in
presently underserved areas while accommodating demographic growth throughout the country. More
primary graduates will also increase the demand for secondary education. The number of children in the
three-year junior secondary cycle would nearly double from 55,518 to around 106,000, while the number
of children in the two year senior secondary cycle would grow from 14,686 to over 24,000.
Input requirements. An ambitious program of classroom construction and teacher training will be
necessary to accommodate the enrollment expansion. At present, about 200 primary classrooms are
constructed annually. Under the Core Scenario, additional classroom requirements per year are estimated
to rise to nearly 500 after 10 years and to more than 650 annually by 2011/12. Recruitment needs for
primary teachers rise from around 550 currently to around 1,800 by 2011/12. Furthermore, means of
attracting and retaining teachers in remote areas will be required. According to the model, secondary
teacher and classroom annual needs are currently satisfied, but annual needs will rise to about 500 and
280, respectively, by 2011/12.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 9
Budgetary implications. The core scenario requires a real expansion of the education budget by 5-7
percent per year. This will impose a very heavy burden on the budget in the context of an economy
projected to grow at 3 percent per year. Moreover, additional education expenditures beyond those
estimated in the Core Scenario may be necessary if the costs of providing education in isolated areas
prove to be higher than in presently served areas. Additional costs may also be ass.)ciated with raising
the quality of education, upgrading schools, addressing constraints linked to parental attitudes, and so on.
Finally, as a result of significantly greater growth rates in expenditure for primary and secondary
education than in tertiary education, their combined share in total education expenditure grows from 69
percent to 82 percent while tertiary expenditure falls from 28 percent to 16 percent of cducation
expenditure.
Summary of Scenario II: Reductions in Repetition Rates. While Scenario I envisages repetition rates
that are cut in half by 2011/12, these rates still remain relatively high at 10 percent in primary education
and 4.5 percent in secondary education by the end of the 15-year period. Scenario 11 illustrates the
budgetary cost savings associated with a more ambitious reduction in both primary and secondary
repetition rates, with reductions in repetition rates reduced to between 1-2 percent by the end of the
period.  Furthennore, the primary pupil-to-teacher ratio improves from 48-to-I to just 45-to-1, thereby
reducing the growth in teacher numbers. The implications of these changes are shown below:
Scenario II: UPE with Reductions in Repetition
(Expenditures in Constant Maloti)
1996/97       2001/02       2006/07       2011/12
Primary Education
Enrollment
Numbers enrolled in primary (all ages)       368,895       420,220        514,585      610,594
Gross enrolment rate                         94.6%          93.0%         98.2%        100.5%
Repetition rate                              19.9%          12.7%          6.1%         1.0%
Input requirements
Additional teachers required annually 1/      526            834           924          1384
Additional classrooms required annually        68            338           326           648
Secondary Education
Enrollment
Numbers enrolled                             71,475         76,744        100,251      140,800
Gross enrolment rate                          32%           29%            33%          40%
Repetition rate                               9.5%          6.6%           3.7%         1.2%
Input requirements
Additional teachers required annually 1/       0             139           357           449
Additional classrooms required annually        0             82            206           246
Total Education Expenditure (in '000 Maloti)  355,000        477,000       628,000      854,000
Recurrent                                    339,000       412,000        520,000      703,000
Capital                                      16,000         54,000        84,000       145,000
Annual real growth in expenditures                          6.0%           5.7%         6.3%
Share of Primary in total education           45%           51%            50%          51%
Share of Secondary in total education         24%           23%            27%          29%
Share of Tertiary in total education          28%           24%            21%          17%
Share of education in Total Gov't Expenditure 2/  25.1%      26.5%          29.5%        34.1%
1/ Assumes primary teacher attrition rates of 5% and secondary teacher attrition rates of 3%.
2/ Assumes total goverrment expenditures grow in line with GDP growth at 3% per year.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 9
Student flows. As in the first scenario, primary enrollment in this scenario continues to grow rapidly in
order to meet UPE by the end of the period. However, reduced repetition leads to fewer overage students
and greater efficiency in the system. Primary enrollment increases by 66 percent over the 15-year period,
with fewer primary students lingering in the system and, instead, more graduating to the secondary
system. As a result, secondary enrollment grows more rapidlv than in the first scenario, reaching more
than 140,000 by 2011/12, and improving the secondary gross enrollment rate to 40 percent.
Input requirements. While classroom requirements are less than in the first scenario, the needs remain
high-648 per year by 2011/12-compared to the current construction rate of 200 pcr year. Primary
teacher requirements are about 450 less per year by 2011/12 than in the Core Scenario as a result of
reduced repetition and a smaller drop in the student-to-tcacher ratio (from 48:1 to 45:1) However,
secondary classroom and teacher requirements increase to nearly 450 and 250 per year, respectivelv, by
the end of the period. Both figures are considcrably higher than current output from both the LCE and
NUL.
Budgetary implications. Significant savings result from implementing policies to reduce repetition. By
the end of the 15-year period, the savings amount to nearly M 75 million per year. Nevertheless, the
envisaged primary and secondary enrollment expansion continues to demand a real expansion of the
education budget by 5-6 percent per year, greater than economic growth, projected at 3 percent per year.
As tertiary expenditures are assumed to grow by 2.5 percent per year, less than in other sub-sectors,
tertiary's share of total education expenditure falls from 28 percent to 17 percent.
Summary of Scenario III: Free Primary Education. Scenario III illustrates the costs associated with a
policy of free primary education. This is interpreted to mean that the govemment would in future pay the
entire costs of textbooks, leaming materials and school maintenance. These costs have been estimated to
be about 210 Maloti per student (assuming a three-year life span per textbook). As the govemment would
pay the cost of primary education, repetition would be extremely costly and highly discouraged, and the
repetition rates associated with Scenario II are thus used.  Student flows and teacher and classroom
requirements would thus be identical to those in Scenario II and are not included in the table below. As a
result of incorporating free primary education, the budget for education would change as follows:
Scenario III: Free Primary Education
(Expenditures in Constant Maloti)
1996/97      2001/02      2006/07      2011/12
Primary Expenditures (in '000 Maloti)
Primary expenditure under Scenario III         161,000      323,000      415,000      558,000
Primary expenditure under Scenario II          161,000      241,000       314,000     438,000
Additional cost of free primary education per year  --       82,000       101,000     120,000
Share of Primary in total education             45%           58%          57%         57%
Share of Secondary in total education           24%           20%          23%         25%
Share of Tertiary in total education            28%           20%          18%          15%
Total Education Expenditure (in '000 Maloti)    355,000       559,000      729,000      974,000
Recurrent                                      339,000      497,000      637,000      838,000
Capital                                        16,000        62,000       92,000      137,000
Annual growth in expenditures                                9.5%          5.4%        6.0%
Share of education in total Gov't expenditure    25.1%        31.7%         35.1%       39.8%
The definition of free primary education is a fluid one. At present, parents pay fees to school authorities,
generally one of the churches. Information on the amount and the use of these fees is incomplete and
demands additional study before policy implementation. A study is being funded under a PH-RD grant to



Annex 4
Page 7 of 9
the Ministry that will provide information on how Government can best eliminate or reduce fees that will
not harm church provision of education and will be fiscally sustainable.
While some of these questions remain, the policy simulation model does provide preliminary information
on the budgetary implications of eliminating primary fees. Primary education would require an additional
M 82 million per year by 2001/02, and primary's share of the education budget would increase to 58
percent (compared to 51 percent in Scenario II). The total education budget would increase to M 559
million per year and would require annual real increases of 9.5 percent per year over the first five years of
implementation. By the end of the 15-year period, the annual cost of implementing free primary
education is estimated to be M 120 million per year.
Free primary education could be implemented in phases where, in the first year, fees for Standard 1
students are eliminated, in year two, fees for Standard 2 students are also eliminated, and so on until all
fees are eliminated in the seven-year cycle. The effect of gradual implementation of the policy, with
implementation beginning in 2000, would be to spread out the costs of the policy. By 2001/02, the total
education budget would be M 523 million (compared to M 559 million if the policy was implemented all
at once or M 477 million if it were not implemented at all), with annual growth rates of 8.1 percent per
year in the first five years of implementation. By 2006/07, when the free primary policy is fully in effect,
the annual education budget would be similar to the budget depicted in Scenario III.
A direct comparison of the financial requirements to pursue the different policy scenarios is depicted
below.
Table 4: Fiscal Comparison of Alternative Policy Scenarios
(Index where Scenario II education expenditure is equivalent to 100)
1996/97      2001/02      2006/07     2011/12
Scenario 1: UPE                               100          96.6         102.7       108.5
Scenario 2: UPE with reduced repetition       100          100           100         100
Scenario 3a: Free primary education           100          117.2        116.1       114.1
Scenario 3b: Free primary implemented gradually  100       109.6        116.1       114.1
The Policy Simulation Model is housed within the MOE Planning Unit. Additional policies, such as the
effects of double shifting primary attendance, providing partially free primary education,
increasing/decreasing tertiary expenditures, or restructuring technical-vocational education, can readily be
modeled.
Public Expenditure and Budget Management Review
In mid-1997, a task force was appointed to undertake a public expenditure and budget management
review in Lesotho. The first phase of the exercise was a macroeconomic overview, a draft of which was
completed in early 1998 and which the Bank intends to revise and finalize in 1999. The second phase
consists of sectoral reviews that are being undertaken by the original task force and which were to have
been submitted in November 1998 but have been delayed as a result of the recent political unrest. It is
expected that these reviews will require significantly more in-depth analysis to capture such items as non-
published and off-budget expenditures and programs. More importantly, the expected draft will require
greater ownership and input from the Ministry of Education because the original task force was primarily
composed of staff from central ministries.
Under ESDP II, financing will be set aside to ensure that expenditure and budget management reviews,
coordinated by the PERSG, are undertaken on an ongoing basis. It is expected that the reviews will



Annex 4
Page 8 of 9
produce information that the MOE will utilize in prioritizing and reallocating annual expenditures. In
collaboration with the Ministnres of Finance and Central Planning, the expenditure and budget
management reviews will provide the foundation for the MTEF that matches expected resources with
required expenditures. The establishment of a functioning MTEF will be an important trigger for Phase II
of the APL.
Additional and specific studies may also be identified in support of the overall expenditure and budget
management review. For example, in response to the rapid rise in tertiary expenditures through the
1990s, it is envisaged that an analysis of tertiary expenditures will be conducted during Phase I. The
findings of the study will provide policy makers with an understanding of the reasons for the rapid growth
and policy options to reduce or limit future expenditures in this sub-sector.
Further Economic Analysis
In addition to the ongoing revision of the education simulation model and of the public expenditure
analysis, several other types of economic analysis will be initiated under the project and undertaken
during Phase I. The results of the proposed analysis will be used to better inform education policy makers
and, in several cases, may be utilized to trigger financing under subsequent phases of the ESDP 11.
While existing data are insufficient to undertake traditional cost-benefit analysis and benefit incidence
analysis, Lesotho's household survey will be strengthened during Phase I to permit such analysis in
future.  In particular, information on household's access to and expenditure on education will be
developed to determine the effect of income, location, gender, and other variables on access to and
progression in education. In addition, a social assessment is currently underway with Bank assistance to
identify issues related to disadvantaged groups and underserved areas. The information from the
household survey and social assessment will be used to develop intervention strategies to widen access to
education and training especially for targeted groups, as well as to identify other areas of analysis which
need further investigation. The proposed action plan for undertaking economic analysis for ESDP II, both
during project preparation and Phase I, includes the following.
* Operational Policy Simulation Model. The simulation model will be developed and maintained to
test and compare the financial sustainabilitv of several alternative education scenarios. In addition to
the policies assessed above, in Phase I the model will develop a framework for analyzing TVET and
the effects that rationalizing TVET may have on unit costs, enrollment and overall expenditures.
*  Social Assessment. Disadvantaged groups who are not accessing or continuing education will be
identified and intervention strategies discussed. Information gaps for better understanding the reasons
for poor attendance will be identified and mechanisms for gathering additional data on vulnerable
households will be agreed.
*  Education Management Information System. Relevant education and financial indicators, including
school-level information indicators, will be agreed for inclusion in order to develop the EMIS.
Development of the EMIS has already begun during project preparation (with PPF financing) and will
be an ongoing and important feature of the project.
*  Public Expenditure and Budget Management Review.  The process, roles, responsibilities and
timetable for undertaking an education PER will be discussed and agreed. The partnership of
institutions (such as the university) and beneficiaries (such as non-government organizations and the
church) in contributing to the analysis will be defined and agreed prior to project effectiveness.
Individual and supporting studies, such as an independent review of tertiary expenditures, will be
reviewed and terms of reference drafted. It is envisaged that a draft PER will be completed by end
1999 and will be used to inform preparation of the FY 2000/01 education budget. Thereafter, a PER



Annex 4
Page 9 of 9
will be conducted annually and a consensus report will be completed. The submission of an accepted
PER by the GOL may be a trigger for Phase 11.
*  Medium-Term Expenditure Framework. A MTEF will be developed that provides the MOE with an
expected-resources envelope and facilitates the Ministry's reallocation of expenditures. Tlis exercise
will be coordinated with efforts to improve the Financial Management Information System (FMIS) to
ensure that the FMIS assigns expenditure priority to key activities.  The establishment of an
acceptable MTEF will be a trigger for Phase 11.
*  TVET and Labor Market Analysis. As policies in TVET are developed, they will be included in the
policy simulation modeling exercise. Additional studies, such as tracer studies of TVET graduates,
may also be initiated as needed.
*  Household Survey. Revisions to the household income and expenditure survey will be made to
ensure that sufficient education related information is gathered to inform education policies and
decisions.
*  Independent Studies. The independent analysis of the extent and composition of tertiary expenditures
and the nature and extent of primary school fees will be undertaken during Phase I. Other economic
analysis or studies identified by govemment during project implementation may also take place.



Annex 5
Page I of 4
LESOTHO
Second Education Sector Development Project (1999-2002)
Annex 5: Financial Management Action Plan
A GENERAL
The Project Accounts Section of the Planning Unit (PASPU) of the MOE will be responsible for
ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures for ESDP 1I will be acceptable to
cooperating partners.
PASPU's financial management system (FMS) must support management in their deployment of
limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery
of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of
producing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable
management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise ESDP II's overall progress towards the
achievement of its objectives.
For PASPU to deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its financial management system must be
substantially strengthened and enhanced in accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan
presented in Section B below.
B  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
Financial Management Committee (FMC)
A representative FMC will be appointed to review the Project Management Report (PMR) every
quarter. The PMR will comprise:
Financial Statements, as discussed below. Members of the FMC will review and approve Quarterly
and Annual Financial Statements; they will also examine material variances between budget/actual
figures, seeking remedial action as appropriate within an agreed timeframe.
Project Progress, i.e., Output Monitoring Report (OMR). The format and details of the OMR will
need to be developed. An important aspect of the OMR will be the accompanying narrative
interpreting the project's progress with agreed financial performance indicators and how costs to
date relate to those planned at appraisal, and the likely effect of the Project by completion.
Procurement Management (including Goods, Works and Services)
Staffing
A Financial Manager will be appointed to direct and guide the financial management operations of
ESDP II.
Relevantly qualified/experienced accounting support staff will be in place. Varying levels of
training will be required in financial, management and govemment accounting; information systems
and computer applications; and procedures relating to utilization of funds (e.g., Special Accounts,
SOEs, Special Commitments, procurement, etc.). On-the-job coaching will also be provided.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
Financial Procedures Manual/Internal Audit
The Financial Manager will document the internal control svstems, including procedures for
handling inaccessible schools, in a Financial Procedures Manual.
The activities of the Project will be periodically reviewed by the Internal Audit Unit of the Ministry
of Finance (MOF).
Information Technology
The Government of Lesotho's Financial Information System (GOLFIS) was developed in 1992 with
the assistance of ODA (now DFID). Technical assistance is currently being sought by the Treasury
(MOF), to carry out a full-scale review of the system.
Presently, GOLFIS is unable to satisfy IDA's and ESDP II's financial management information
requirements. Pending the proposed review and upgrading of GOLFIS, the Financial Manager at
PASPU will introduce a spreadsheet system (Excel) as a transitional arrangement to facilitate timely
accounting for the IDA Credit and counterpart funds.
As part of the upgrading of PASPU's facilities, 5 computers (Pentiums) and 3 printers (Lasers) will
be procured.
Planning and Budgeting
Counterpart funding will be approved in line with the govcrnment's budgetary process.
FMC will be responsible for budget preparation witb, as appropriate, the concurrence of cooperating
partners. The Financial Manager, in consultation with FMC, will be responsible for preparing the
Project's Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow Forecast.
The budget will ultimately be approved by MOF in consultation with MOE.
Government Accounting-Cash Versus Accruals
Because ESDP II is an integral part of the MOE, PASPU must meet the Treasury's requirement for
cash accounting. This requirement is not expected to change in the short to medium term. Thus, for
the foreseeable future, IDA and related counterpart funds will be accounted for by PASPU on a cash
basis.
In due course, for management reporting purposes, the FMC will decide whether to convert to an
accruals basis of accounting.
Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
The Financial Manager and members of staff will be conversant with procurement procedures,
because internal control issues and the incurring of liabilities on behalf of ESDP II will be matters of
particular concern to the financial management function.
A Procurement Management Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments, will be
prepared quarterly for consideration by the FMC (see above).
Procurement procedures will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
Banking Activities-Flow Of Funds
Regarding IDA and Government of Lesotho funding, PASPU will maintain four bank accounts as
follows:
(a) A Current Account in Maloti with the Central Bank (Part I Account), to which drawdowns
from the Special Account wvill be credited for project financing and administrative expenses.
(b) A Current Project Account in Maloti with the Central Bank (Part 2 Account), to which the
government's counterpart funding will be depositcd.  Initially, a three-months' float will be
provided, and thcreafter it will be replenished monthly by the Treasury.
(c) Special Account with the Central Bank in U.S. Dollars/Maloti, which will show:
*  Dollar/Maloti cost of transfers to Part I Account with Central Bank,
* Dollar/Maloti cost of direct payments to suppliers;
l Dollar advances (Maloti equivalent cost) from the IDA Loan Account;
e Opening and Closing Balances.
(d) IDA Loan Account (Washington) in U.S. Dollars/Maloti/SDR, which will show:
o cost of transfers to Central Bank;
• cost of direct payments to suppliers;
* Opening and Closing Balances.
All four bank accounts will be reconciled with bank statements on a monthly basis. Reconciliations
will be approved by the Financial Manager on a timely basis; identified differences will be
expeditiously investigated and control procedures will be documented in the Financial Procedures
Manual.
WithdrawaLs/Disbursements
PASPU is not yet ready for PMR-based disbursements, as discussed in the World Bank's Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998). Thus, in the short term,
existing disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook will be
followed, i.e., Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment.
The appointment of the Financial Manager, coupled with strengthening PASPU's financial
management system, is expected to facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements within
about 12 months of credit effectiveness.
LACI/PMR integrates project accounting, procurement, contract management, disbursement and
audit with physical progress through the Project Management Report, as summarized above. In due
course, the adoption of LACI/PMR by PASPU will enable it to move away from time-consuming
voucher-by-voucher disbursement methods to quarterly disbursements to the project's Special
Account, based on the PMR.



Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
Fixed Assets/Civil Works and Inventories
A Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularlv updated and checked for capital expenditure.
Regarding Construction/Capital Work in Progress, a Contracts Ledger will be prepared. Controls
will be established over the awarding of contracts, and these controls will also ensure that payments
are made only for certified work.  Contract Status Reports will be prepared quarterly for
consideration by the FMC as part of the Procurement Management Report referred to above.
An Inventories Management System, including inaccessible schools, will be established and
procedures will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
Financial Reporting (Monthly and Quarterly/Annuallv)
Mon thly Cash Reporting
In compliance with Government reporting requirements, the Financial Manager will be responsible
for preparing a Monthly Return to the Treasury (MOF) for incorporation into the National
Accounts.
Quarterly/Annually
The Financial Statements, following determination by the FMC, are likely to include:
*    A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds by Loan Category/by Activity;
*    Project Balance Sheet as at the reporting date;
*    Notes on significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management
when preparing the accounts; and on any supplementary information or explanations that may
be deemed appropriate by management to enhance the presentation of a "true and fair view";
*    Special Account Statement/Reconciliation showing deposits and replenishments received,
payments substantiated by withdrawal applications, interest that may be eamed on the
account and the balance at the end of the fiscal year;
*    SOE  Withdrawal Schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
*    A Cash Forecast for the next two quarters.
Indicative formats for Financial Statements are outlined in two World Bank publications-
Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH, January 1995) and The Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998).
External Audit
Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed with acceptable
terms of reference. The extemal auditor will also be expected to prepare a separate Management
Letter giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements of
accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 6
LESOTHO
Second Education Sector Development Project (1999-2002)
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement of goods and works for all IDA financed components will be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRID Loans and IDA Credits (January
1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consulting services
by firms or individuals financed by IDA will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September
1997 and January 1999). The management of the procurement of goods and equipment, civil works and
consultant services under the project will be the responsibility of the Planning Unit under the Ministry of
Education (MOE), which will be supported, in the first one or two years of implementation, by qualified
procurement, administrative and other required staff as needed.
Two General Procurement Notices (GPN), one for consulting services and one for works and
goods, will be prepared for the project and published in United Nations Development Business,
immediately after Board approval. The GPNs will be updated at least once a year and submitted to IDA
for review. GPNs will describe all outstanding ICB for goods and works contracts, as well as consulting
assignments. A procurement plan will be prepared by the Borrower and will be a conldition for
effectiveness. The plan will include relevant information on goods, works and consulting services under
the project as well as the timing of each milestone in the procurement process and a critical path. The
procurement schedule will be updated every month and reviewed by IDA at three-month intervals.
Civil Works
The total cost of civil works is estimated at about US$9.8 million for the entire three-year project.
Civil works contracts, financed by IDA for the rehabilitation of hostels, that are estimated to cost more
than US$500, 000 equivalent per contract, will be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures.
Civil Works contracts financed by IDA for the construction of new/additional classrooms in
accessible areas and rehabilitation of existing classrooms, that are estimated to cost less than US$500, 000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$3 million equivalent, will be procured through
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures.
Contracts for small works estimated to cost less than USS 30,000 equivalent per contract, up to
an aggregate amount of US$3 million equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited in writing
to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, a basic forrn of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where
applicable. The awards will be made to the contractors who offer the lowest price quotation for the
required work, provided they demonstrate they have the experience and resources to complete the
contract successfully. These contracts will mostly be for works relating to small construction such as
small classrooms in inaccessible mountain areas, teachers' resource centers or the rehabilitation of
existing school facilities in rural areas.
Goods
The total cost of goods is estimated at US$2.0 million for the entire three-year program.
Procurement will be bulked where feasible into packages valued at US$100,000 equivalent or more and



Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Vehicles and hostel
furniture that are estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent per contract will be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.
School furniture, printing of books and manuals and other goods available locally and estimated
to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.2 million
equivalent, will be procured through NCB.
Photocopiers, computers and office equipment that are estimated to cost less than US$30,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$ 200,000 equivalent, may be procured through National
Shopping procedures (for goods available locally) and/or through International Shopping procedures (for
those goods not available on the national market), in accordance with the Bank Guidelines, and/or
through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the UNDP (IAPSO).
Services
The total cost of consultant services is estimated at US$2.5 million equivalent for the entire three-
year project. Consulting services that are estimated to cost more than US$200,000 equivalent per
contract will be selected through competition among qualified short-listed firms based on Quality and
Cost Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluation the quality of the proposals before comparing the cost of the
services to be provided.
Consultants for financial audits and other repetitive services estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$200,000 equivalent, will be selected
through Fixed Budget Selection (SEB) method. Contracts for twinning arrangements, bursaries, study
tours and workshops, for an aggregate cost of US$6.5 million equivalent for the entire three-years project,
for which the need for preparing and evaluating competitive proposals may not be justified, may be
awarded based on selection by Consultants' Qualifications.
The selected institution will be required to submit a combined technical and financial proposal
and then invited to negotiate the contract. Training within the country and abroad, including workshops
and study tours, will be carried out on the basis of IDA-approved programs. The Borrower will identify
the nature of training/study-tours/workshops/bursaries, personnel to be trained, the duration of
training/study-tours/workshops, institutions where training/study tours would be conducted (selection of
institutions and justification thereof), cost estimates, content of the courses. This information will be
reviewed by IDA quarterly.
Consultants for curriculum development, teacher development, school-level management,
planning unit, technical and vocational education, and non-formal education estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$970,000 equivalent, will be selected based
on the Selection of Individual Consultants method. Individual Consultants (IC) will be selected through
comparison of job description requirements against the qualifications of those expressing interest in the
assignment or those approached directly.
To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national consultants,
short-lists for contracts estimated under US$100.000 or equivalent may be comprised entirely of national
consultants (in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided
that a sufficient number of qualified individual or firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs.
However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration. The
Standard Request for Proposal (RFP) as developed by the Bank will be used for requesting proposals, and
for selection and appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term
assignments-simple missions of standard nature (i.e., those not exceeding six months) carried out by
individuals consultants or firms. The government will be briefed during negotiations about the special



Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
features of the new guidelines and the RFP, in particular with regard to advertisement, public bid opening,
and evaluation criteria.
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements8
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                         Procurement Method                    Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB         Other        N.B.F
1. Works                        1.8         4.0          4.0          1.0        9.8
(1.4)       (3.7)       (3.7)                   (8.8)
2. Goods                        (0.6)        (1.2)       (0.5)                  (2.3)
3. Services
3.1 Consulting Services         -            -           (2.5)                  (2.5)
3.2 Training andbursaries       -            -           (0.5)        1.0        1.5
(0.5)
3.3 Workshops & Study Tours   -              -           (5.0)                  (5.0)
4. Miscellaneous
Operation and maintenance                             (0.9)                  (0.9)
Project staff salary/benefits                                      3.7        3.7
Total                                                              5.7        26.7
(21.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes clements procured under parallel co-financing procedures,
consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). Figures
in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/lDA credit
8 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table
A, where applicable).



Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$million equivalent)
Consultant Services                   Selection Method                    Total Cost
Expenditure Category                                                      (including
contingencies)
QCBS| QBS   SFB   LCS   CQ   Other  N.B.F.   contngenies
A. Firms
Consulting Services     0.5            0.2
Training/Study          0.8                        6.5
Tours/Twinning
B. Individuals
1.0
Total 1.3            0.2          6.5   1.0             9.0
Note:
QCBS = Quality- and Cost-based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of Individual Consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review9
Expenditure         Contract Value      Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category           (Threshold)          Method          Prior Review / Estimated
US$ Equivalent                         Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
(US$ million)
1. Works                  > 500,000       ICB                   All (US$1.8 million)
< 500,000      NCB                   First five contracts
(all others: post-review)
< 30,000       Local Shopping        First two contracts
(three quotations)   (all others: post-review)
2. Goods                  > 100,000       ICB                   All
30,000 to      NCB                   First five contracts
100,000                              (all others: post-review)
< 30,000       LS/IAPSO              Post-review)
3. Consultant Services
TORs                                                       All
Firms                >$ 100,000      QCBS                 All
< $100,000                           Post Review
Individuals          > $50,000       CQ                   All
Disbursement
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook
(1992 edition). All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Credit Agreement and the
procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit
account will be fully documented except for expenditures against contracts (i) with an estimated value of
$US250,000 each or less for works; (ii) with an estimated value of US$100,000 or less for consulting
firms and goods; (iii) with an estimated value of US$50,000 or less for individual consultants; and (iv) for
all training workshops and study tours, which may be claimed on the basis of certified Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained at
Ministry of Education and will be available for review as requested by IDA supervision missions and
project auditors.
Special Account
To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures, the Govemment of Lesotho will open a special
account (SA) in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to cover local and foreign currencies of IDA's
share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation for the special account will be US$1 million,
covering an estimated four months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. Upon credit effectiveness or
as needed, an anount of US$500,000 will be deposited in the SA. Subsequent deposits may be requested
as needed not exceeding the total authorized anount of US$1 million. Replenishment applications should
9 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation"
and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
be submitted regularly, preferably monthly, after monthly bank statements are received and reconciled,
with appropriate supporting documents for local and foreign expenditures as required. To the extent
possible, IDA's share of eligible expenditures should be paid through the special account.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
LESOTHO
Second Education Sector Development Project (1999-2002)
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                           Planncd                 Actual
(At final PCD stagc'
US$ 262,000            US$ 265,000
B. Project Schedule                                  Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mnission (identification)                02/16/1998             02/16/1998
Appraisal mission departure                         10/04/1998             11/30/1998
Negotiations                                         02/16/99              02/22/1999
Planned date of effectiveness                        06/30/99
Prepared by: Lesotho Ministry of Education
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant                US$ 325,500             US$ 325,500
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                          Specialtv
Dzingai Mutumbuka                             Task Team Leader
Trish Tiemey                                  Education Specialist
Reema Nayar                                   Economist
Xiaoyan Liang                                 Education Specialist
David Bruns                                   Economist
Roger Key                                     Economist
Gibwa Kajubi                                  Social Scientist
Surendra Agarwal                              Operational Support
Anthony Hegarty                               Financial Management Specialist
Francesco Sarno                               Procurement Specialist
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi                              Counsel
Steve Gaginis                                 Disbursement
Lori Geurts                                   Task Assistant



Annex 8
Page I of I
LESOTHO
Second Education Sector Deve'opment Project (1999-2002)
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Notes on Proposals for Strengthening the Examinations Council of Lesotho -
Consultants' Report
2.     Lesotho Education Sector Financial Management: Review and Draft Proposals
3.    Issues Paper for NFE - Consultant's Report
4.     The Development of An Appropriate Management Structure for Lesotho TVET -
Consultant's Report
5.     Briefing Note: Handling the Problem of Repatriated Mincrs - Consultant's Report
C. Reports from the Government of Lesotho
1.    Letter of Sector Development Policy - draft
2.    Impact Assessment - MOE
3.     Poverty Reduction Within the Context of Good Governance
4.     The Lesotho Primary Education System: Improving Quality and Efficiency
5.    The Evaluation of TVET Sector
6.    Improving Non-Formal Education in Lesotho



MOp Scheduc D
Generated: 03/25/99
Status of Bank Group Operations in Lesotho
Operations Portfolio
As of 22-Mar-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
fiscal                                                                                                                                  disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Canicellations  llndishursed       Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 21
Active Projects
LS-PE-1402       1998   GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO             AG POL & CAP BLDG                         0. C        6.BO         0.00               6.95         .80        0.00
LS-PE-1409       1998   GOVERNMENT OF LESOTHO             HILAND WATER IB                          45.00        0.00         0.00              45.00        7.00        0.00
LS-PE-1403       1996   GOVERNMENT                        ROAD REHAB. & MAINT                       0.00       40.00         0.00              33.33       18.40       10.96
LS-PE-1401       1994   GOVERNMENT                        PRIVATISATION/RESTRU                      0.00       11.00         0.00               5.08       -1.80        0.00
LS-PE-1392       1992   GOVT OF LESOTHO                   EDUC. SECTOR DEVELOP                      0.00       25.20         0.00               4.84        3.76        1.24
LS-PE-1396       1992   LES H/L DEV. AUTH.                HIGHLAND WTR.I                          110.00        0.00        36.00               3.72       39.14        3.'14
Total                                                                                             155.00       83.00        36.00              98.92       67.90       15.94
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  100.67              156.67               257.34
of which has been repaid:                   7.10                12.86               19.96
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  194.90              140.65               335.55
Amount sold                                        0.00                0.00                 0.00
Of which repaid               :                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                :                98.92                 4.15              103.07
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end ot the first week of the month and is cuirrently as of 28-Feb-99.
(D (D
X
Generated by the Operations Informnation System (OIS)



Annex 10
Page 1 of I
Lesotho at a glance                                                                 s/29
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan      Low-
Lesotho     Africa   Income       tevetopmentdamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (mlnilons)                         2.1       614      2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. USS)                      670       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, USS bflons)                          1.4       309       722                        T
Average annual growth, 199147
Population (X)                                          2.1        2.7       2.1
Labor force (%)                                         2.4        2.6       2.3     GNP                1              Gross
per         ..primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                capita                        enrollment
Povery (% of populaton below national poverty line)      49          ..       ..
Urban population (% of total population)                 26        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         59        52         59   1
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 72        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of crhiklren under 5)              21          ..      61                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulatkon)                    52         44       71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     29        43        47
Gmoss primary enrollment (9 ofschool-age population)     99        75        91                   Lesotho
Male                                                   92        82       100                   Low-income group
Femaie                                                105        67        81 
KEY ECONOMIC RATlOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996      1997
Economiic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                            0.15     0.28       0.86      0.95
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 36.1     46.1       89.2      85.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP             16.6     12.7       25.5      32.9                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   -83.3    -73.5       -1.8      -9.4
Gross national savings/GDP                   -77.7    44.2        72.9      50.0
Current account balance/GDP                 -116.6    -93.5      -32.1    -35.5             .         /
Interest payments/GDP                          0.2      1.6        1.7       1.9     Oomestc                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                11.0     71,5       76.0      69.5     Savings
Total debt service/exports                     0.3      4.7        5.7       5.8
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..       46.4
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..       62.7
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97      1996       1997   1998-2
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.8       7.1     12.7        8.o       5.6                 Lesotho
GNP per capita                       0.4       1.3      9.8        2.9       3 5                   Low-income group
Exportsof goods and services         2.0       7.1     30.7       20.4      144                                    -------
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment %)
(% of GDP)
Agnculture                                    27.2     21.1       14.3      11.6     30
Industry                                      19.0     28.5       41.2      42.4     20
Manufactunng                                 5.4      13.0      1685      17.3      10
Services                                      53.8     50.4       44.5      46.0      0
Prvate consumption                           163.9    148.3       85.2      84.6     -0      92   93   94   95  g9   97
General government consumption                19.4     25.2       16.6      24.8
Importls of goods and services               136.1    132.3      116.5     127.8               -      0            GOP
(average annual growth)                   1976486  1987-97       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports(%)
Agriculture                                    4.9      0.8       54.7     -12.1    40
Industry                                       6.8     13.1       11.7      11.4    30
Manufacturing                               15.8       9.0      14.1       14.0    20
Services                                       4.4      6.0        6.2      12.1
Private consumption                            1.9     -2.8        0.2      17.4
General govemrnment consumption                9.4      3.7      -13.7       4.5      0       .                5    go n
Grossdomestiinvestment                         4.2     16.3       19.2       3.5    *10
Imports of goods and services                  3.0      1.9        5.3      11 9             -     Exports         nmports
Gmss national product                          3.2      3.6       12.2       5.2   1
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estinmtes.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex  I 1
MINISTRY OF FINANCE                   Page  1 of 10
LESOThO
Office of the Minister
P.O. Box 395
Maseru 1W0
Ref: CPO/4/014                                     16"h March, 1999
Country l)ircCtor
World Wiiank
1818 H Strcct, NW
Wasilingtoni. DC 20433
IJSA
Attention: Ms Paincla Cox
IC,"'IT'ER OF SECTOIAL POI,JCY ON EDUCArTION SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT PLAN 1H
I his is to 11f;)rHn yOu zihout the proposed Sconild  kiucation Sector Dcvclopenicit I'l in (lS1)P 11)
fbor which the (Uovernnient ol' LcsoWho is sccking fina!ieial assistance fromi tile I DA. lhis
letter soullillcs the strategic directon in the cducation sector andl thc measures proliosed
inder the plan, which the Bank is requested to support.
1.    Achicvernents in the Education Sector Developmcnt Plan I
'Ihc .l ducatiomi Sector Devclopment l'an I (FSDP 1) Addressed, in essence. the eiiti'
spectrumiL  o11 the eduIcation  systen.  In particular. bult vwithout prc judice to othe'
collaborating sub-sectors. thc plan focused oln primary a"l bhasic education, seconldar \
education, the teach i ig force, technical and vocationii  edAucation, ca rly childhohiod
dcvelopminenit, higher Cducation, and special cducation. It also addrt-sscd the issue otl
rnanagiclcnt re or-ms, i.c.. streamlining and decentralization
Ihe RSI)P I started pomi 1991/92 - 1995/90 and colincided with the ['illh Nationol
Dcvclopment Pllanl Period, and was completed itl 1998 during the Sixth Pla-i period,



Annex  I 1
Page 2 of 10
TI h  1c (A)!. malde  significant improvements  in  the  educationi sector  durijig  ilhc
implemiicnltatioln of thc plan.  Whilc the attaclhed Anncx i dctails that progress, the1 kcv
achievemiielits by the Goi, are outlined bclow:
*  Paissed tilc I..ducation Law in 1995 which is now in operation;
*  Ciraniite( aultorionly to two t-rtiary inistitUtioins -- L,erotholi PolytcchliliC (f1.1) *Ilnd
Nationzal Teacher Fraining Centre (NTTC);
.  Fnhancccl parcnts' participation  in school managemenit by establishing  School
Coomnittces as reqUirXd undcr thc Education laiw,
*  Constructed over 1,000 classrooms
a  Built IO District Resource Centres (T)RCs) in 10 districts to facilitate decntr'alisalioii
o0 CLIUca1tioa 0I ser vices thiotulghout Lcsothio;
a  Strengiliuicdi Ficid liispetorate thToLIgh cCeatioII of 10 Senior Fducatlion Officers. 40
Lducation (M)iccers andl 86 District Resourcc rutors,
°  Iimplecniented a profcssioiai str-uctuire 60r tcachers and cstablislied ian inicentive
allowance for teacihers in hardship arcas;
*  ConIPIctely curTbd tundcr-agc cnrolment to and subseqjuently reducccl overcrowdilln
in manily schools; reduced over-age enrolmcnt in the lowilands by Cimploying ;II
awarelless c;am,paji!nl; an(l
*   tncreaised Giovernment rccurrent budget friom 144 million maloti in FY ')1 /92 to
413 inillion mnaloli in FY 96/0V' in ordcr to provide foT Education Reoris.
2.     Aciievemncnts between 1997 and 1998
*  Co(nstiructionI of 144 classrooms, 46 shells, 41 ollices and 410 latrines ;nd provisioni
of assoclatd furniture arid providing  uirniitiurc for 289 existinig classrooms wcel
cotmipleted.
*  Complelion of' on-going construction (if 6 classroomiis and provision olf assouiatc(
lurlitLurc were clonic. Trie rest ol the planiinccl activites were postponlcd/canecllcd dic
to vircmncnit of th&  Rinds.
*  All the 10 ResourcC Ccntrcs have been completcd.  Construction of lztcilitics loc
Thah. -Iseka TJecihniical Institutc anid Lcloaileng (workslhops and cism-roonms) were
completed.
*  ('onsU-1ruction of laboratories at the National t Jniversity ol' Lcsotio has lICeen comipletcd
aknd alll associatted furniture anld equipmejit procured.
*  Construction oi hostels lor 504 students is nlearly complctC.
3.     Constraints
D)espite thesc achicvcmenits, minch work rlemiains in the education system  that ,
charactcrised by significant inefficiency. Many sludents enrol latc whicih has i-cstultd in i
signiiiicant population ol Foverage pupils.



Annex  1 1
Page 3 of 10
AItltoughIl drop out and repetilion ratcs did improve in the 1990s, lhcy remain highl ly
regional sL.lntanrds. 'Ilic primary school dropout was 11.3% in 1995/96 uwid (he tepetliitil
ratc was 20%. restltinig in a high dcgrce of wastage oF the system's limintcd rcsource:.
Dturinig the 1990s, psarticipation in primary school increascd but population growth ol
school .age children outpaccd it. Therefore, primary nct cnrolment rates have lallenl. T'lth
1995 net enrolment rate for Loys Ww;S nearly 10% lowcr than in 1990, whillc for girls il
liacl dropped hiy 14%/.  While this trcnd has not heen satislfctorily cxplained., it likely,
stems Irom ithe clccpciiiiig poverty, particularly in thc rural areas. The cxtrenme isolatIo01
of the inaccessible, moLIuntaini areas, and ilow the increasing lcvcl of poverty there, meaztls
it is particularly difficult to ensure acccss to schooling For children in thosc regions.
The highl dlegree ol' unqualified teachers (1 5%  at the primairy level) and thc many
overcrowded classroomils negativcly affect the qLiality orf education rcceived by tll.osu
students that do alttend schiool. bJ.isequently, although thrcc-quartcrs of pupils palss thl
Primiary School Lcavinig Exam (PST,F), less than .10%  gained first class in I 996 and plass
rates are low inl core subrjects suclh as Mathematics.
The TJcllchnical aold Vocationill Education and Irainiing (TVF.T) sUibsc0to1 couldi play at
importWnt rolc in raising the standard of Jivinig ior Basotho oy providing threm with th:
necessary skills to compete lb,oth locally and rcgionall-. Thre (!OT. recogniscs Il'VII-':;
potentiail contribution to ll,c economnic and social development of Lcsotbo.  I lowever.
TVFT institutions are comtinuously unider-uttilised andc in recent years expecnditulr'CS llhiV
inecreased witlhouit producing commensurate outcomiies.  T'he b urden ol' prroviding ;l
comprehensive TVFT programii is such that GOI, ca.lnnot carry it alone. We niced to forgc
a strategic piartnershlip with thc private sector in OLrder to p?rovidC for sustaia.JblelundC Inll.
In lighit of'thicsc chialleniges facing thc education sector and given its limitcd rcsources, thc
,OI, woLlkI likc to work with the donor communlity ovcr the next 1 0 year-s onl it progr-amt1
of poverty allevlatilon throuigh h   T-.,-n resource development.
For the short- aindL medium-tcrm, tihe GOl's priority areas arc: Primary and Secondary
FuhICUtion. Non-Formial Education andI Technical and Vocational F.ducatioi anld Traininlg.
It is our expectation tat tlhis long-tcrm  partnershilp  will ciable thic program  lo
significantly impaict thle scctor throughl support lor our rcforms atnd the devclopinct ol' 0
coherent policy framework and capacity ini arcas such i;s TVET and NFL. Plhse I ol' h.
program will introduce it.czr entions focusing on access/equity anid Iualil ty/Ce[iciiency ol'
the system.
4.     The Focus of .Education Sector Developnmcnt Plan H
During Ihc I'lan period (1998/99-2001), the (Jovernment ol'Lcsotho ((UI:)) will contilnLue
to focus its ellorts on allcviating poverty, with particular focus on1 investitng in the
development of llurmin resources.



Annex  1 1
Page 4 of 10
Investmiients ill blzsic ectlue;aiion and tcchnical traillilng will ensure that lIesotho cjnl sustatil
ilic eceononi' by both mcctinig thc iiccds of tic local labour markct and providillng J3asotlit
witli the skills needled to coompete locally andtL regionally. These goals are in kccping witi
OU1 Ohbjectivus to edLc iCCpovcrty by invcsting in huitnan rcsources developinerit.
a1)    Acess tintd Equity
CoMmilted to  chlievilng universal primary ed-ucatiOnI (UPE), the (JUL will ieced t1
adidress the needIS o' 0.out-of-schlool clidren, as wcll as thosc of pupils ill school.  'l'hc
MOE  is Llndcttakinig cxploratory steps toward eliminating 1ees at (hle piimary levvl
Studies will he ccmLdtiLcted to rationalisc fccs at both the primary and secondrl-y level. Fu
prinmary, the G;UL would implemeiit a policy ol lee elirnlination in phases.
In  addition, the MOF is cxploring the fcasibility of extendillg thle basiC CeLucation cyclc
Fiom 7 to I 0 years.
Flic (JOL is particularly comlinittedi to addressing thc basic education aeeds of' chiildrc
living in the impover ishied, mountainotis arcas.  Therefibre, we will prioritise tho'
COnstIuCtioC 1 ol1' primc11'y schools in the inaccessible regions.   omeC SChOolS will ,lS0 he
built in accessil:le rcgions, but the; inaccessible arcas will be given priority.
Atnotlhe meanis of reaching thc poorcst-of-thie-poor is to Provide scholarships to children
fiom neccly lanfilics. I'lic GOI. intenids to pilot a scholarship, program, For whiicl tlhc ncxl
stcps  are  determininig  critcria  lor thc  identificatRon/selection  of recipicnts  an, 
collillencing atn awatrnicss campaig.n at the eonimunity lcvel. As the children in lhc
nmountain area.s havc severely limited accss to secondary education, the scholarships wvil
focus on supporting their attcrdancc at schools with boaldinm. facilitics.
Most ongoilng irtcrvention%s lo;us on improvemcnts aimed .ii improving opportunities I'M
c;hildren already itin SIhool. 'I'le MOP will explore strategies aimed alt aiddresslSig the
nicdts o0  out-of-school children.  O(ne suoch group of particular conceril is lilat of
herdboys. They typically spend several weeks away from their villages whille herdirng
animials aid thcrefore miss the opportuinity foir foi'mal schooling. In order to gain a better
understanding of' how to initegrate herdboys and other groups into the firmlal systcm, thc
MOtF will collaborate w,ith co-operating partners to conduct a houschold survcy. T'his
will detcriine who are the po-, where are iliey located and what arue tlheir needx.
Subsequently. the MOL will pilot uifferent strategics to address these needts.
b)     Quality and Jiff ciency
Expandciing the system  to accommodate UP1E requires many mnorc and better LIIalillfc.
teachers.



Annex 11
Page 5 of 10
l'o  address thc need of upgrading teachers' skills, thle MOF. will support tlh.
establishimicnt of a Distanice Teacher FEducationi Program (DTEP) comprised of a 2-yeaii
Ccrliflcatc und a 1-2 ycar Diploiai program. The former will rcduce the duration ol'
training liVom 3.5 years to 2 ycars. Over the long-termn, the Dl'EP should rdCCuce thC Lnit
costs of teaichier training ancl improve classroom techniqtues.
The MOF places heavy empihasis on the develoruicnt of a nationial, integratedt framework
for curriculLulm and asscssment at the primary and secondary school levcls. This will
provitde guidalnlce on compuiscry subjects at difTering stages of cduLcation anldl weight tlhe
subjects appropriately.  In Addition, the framework would specify the schedulc aIndi
obJectivcs of formail natioalii asscssments and examinatio0Is. The spread of HIV/AIDS i
incrcasingly recogniised as an urgent development issue and not one which conceins thc
hcalth sector alone. Education sector's role will be to dcvelop HTV/AlDS educatioll
materials for incorporation  into primary and secondary school curriculum  a ndtti will also
establisli a module oni the subject for teacher training. Tn preparation for its rOle in
developing the proposcd curriculumn, NCDC will bc strengthened tihroughi staff trainin,
and some Technical Assistance. ECOL, which will take responsibility for cdefining thc
assessment contenlt ancd structure, vill be strengthened throuigh a twiining arrangenicni
with an intcrinational assessment institution.
rhe high primary school pupil:teacher ratio negatively impacts on tihe quality o(l
education. The NTTC will be upgraded to increase the nunber of students it can admit
eacih year. Spccial cmphasis will be given to training morc ieachcrs for the lower primary
grades whiere the average pupilP:eacher ratio is partictilar!y high. At the secolidary level.
many teachers arc not econon:vially deployed. ro improve efficiency, tihc pupil:tcahcr
ratio will increase to ,5:1.
The reccnt initroduction of District Rcsource Centres (DRCs) and Tutors (DR-lTs) hIs mcli
with extrernely positive rcsults. The DRTs provide important support to both teachers
and the Ol'ficc ol the Inspectorate. The GOL will augment the nutmbcr of VRTs fiom thc
cLurrent nuimber of 84 up to 100.  In addilion, the MOE will further strenigtihen the
inspectoratc hy reci-uitillg and training 20 additional F;icld Officers
'[he GOL, wil] cxtend and consolidatc the process of decenitralisationi already begun undcl
the Fifth Plan period.  It will increase the authority of local sttuctures atid provitde
training toi enhance capacity at that lcvel. As called for in the Education Act, all primarV
and secondary schools will establish School C'oinmittees. To provide the best educationil
serviccs to all Basotho children, the CiOL recognises the importance of forming a strong
partnership betwecn the MOF and the churelhes. To enhance the workinLg relationship.
we will hold regular (COT, conwiltations with education stakeholders and proprietors. Tlhe
School Ci mmittees will Liurther enihance coopcration betweca GOI. and p roprietors, as
well as incre.a;se parcntr!i involvement in school management.  An additional bcneflt;
expected fimi  the Sclhool Committees is a higher level of quality and elficiency .I
Ceducatioll.  'I'le Inspctorate will train the School Committees in lboth gcnera-l
malnageClllent issues as well as financial matters.



Annex  11
Page 6 of 10
An improved education Mtanatgement Information Systemn (MTS) is bcilng dcsigned arid
will bc implemented by Novembcr 1999. T-is will providc the MOT" with baseline dtakll
aLgainst whiicih futurc improvemiients, both quantitative and (JualitativC, can bc meiasured.
The (3O)L is initcrested in atigning its prioritics witl subsectoral allocations, We proposk
to increase the shlare of thc MOE reccurrenit hudlgct to primary and secondary Cducationl.
In order to sustain cxpanision ol' access and quality, there is also a nccd to imilpr'ovc thc
CleiCicilCy 0f cXpenditUr-es within the cducation sector. The GOL intends io enIsLite thli
thc National T lniversity of Lesotho (NUL) continaucs to implemenit the reconinicndationw.
of the cost-containinnclt study con)ducted by CHILMS in 1994. As a follow-ii., the (1o1
will revisit thc analysis of the study. taking into account devclopncntits sinice 1)94.
In order to iinplcicit otur programs elficiently, wc recogniise the need to .strClegthcnl our
own in5stiiuin.s. We plan to work lhard at enhzinicinig the capacity wihiniil th1c MOE inI tbr
areas ol policy iiinking, planning and budgetiing.  To upgrade thc ability of MoII
Planning Unit. several actions will be taken, including training anid creating  tnCW
positions.
Since the ovcrall resource envelop-e ior education is likely to  remaini constrained, gains
must be louiid lby improving the  ,;Tcicncy of the sector. ]n ordcr to align (ol., prioritic-.
and budgetarly allocations, the MO4F will undleitakc a P'ublic Expenditure Review (ll,l')
cxaminiiig all eduCation subsectors, including tertiary. This proccss will cxaminilCe how
well resoLurcCs lbr education are cLurently being uiscd and identify dtsirable changcs in thl,
lcvcl andl pCtteln of future educatioin spendinig. This will result in qiuantified Lairgets and
an agreed composition for future edutci'on spcndinig ;und an agreementi on spccit.:
acti ons tO achicvc thiese.  The next stcp will be to) implcment a    dedium-T r i
Elxpcnditurc lFrlamewo,rk (MJEF) for education, which will guide the allocaittio  Ol M(l':
resources.  'he findings will guide the MWE budget allocations for 199')9/200() and
2000/2001. '[lhc MOF;  will repcat this exercise annually and will integraLte  the M Il,J
process inito the Ministry's budgetar-y plantning process.
'lo datc, tlhe MOE's role in Carly Childhoodl Dcvclopment (.FCD) is loosely deinedl.
During 'l-asc 1. wc will focus on Policy formulation and capacity lbuiLkling in thc ECI)
sub-sector. Specilically, we aim !o (a) establish a niatioinal policy framce work whiichl will
guide the expansion of FCD cs^Irage;  (b) design an cffctivei and age-appropriatec
cturricultiu; (c) develop a training program for ECD trainers, teachicrs and providers; and
(d) pilot test low cost, comillunity-bascd programs in two of the most disadvantaged
districts.
Belore investing in reclinical and Vocational Edlucation and Training, the (i()l, will 'iro
fiocLUs otn establishing a policy framework, undertakc ins.itulional reforms and esta.blislh a
new managenment structure in order to strengthen the subsector.



Annex  11
Page 7 of 10
The (3)1. recoglises the importance ol attracting greater foreign investmenii in order lo
create more ols in thlc local privato sector. Another government priority is tW reloril
TVFT soi that it produces graduates who mcct the n eeds of employcrs.
loward tihis end, the GO1, will support the dcvelopiienill of a tri-partile mnlilagC1nc
approachi lo rclbrms andc work withi CmployCr.s .nd cmplDyees to identily alteliLivc
finiicngln .ipproaclics. Adtditionally, an acctedilation system anld qualification 1;.anelwork
will hc set-up to hetter prcpare Basotlio workcrs to meet thc needs oe the local anl
regional labdoor markct. A Technical and Vocational Board (TVBP) will be establisied tLo
guide this work.
II the S4sIjccjor of Nont-F(rmal Education, we will also &cwis oni policy development
The NV:l .Task Iorce has finalisei a policy paper and a logframc. in consultations witih
thlc N(;()t s and other agcncies iivolved in N.11. DorIng Pliasc 1, we hope ti) build on li),:
policy pap-e;r to clcarly define policics and priorilies anid dcvelop a Framework for meetinlp
the niost prcssinig needs of our people. This will involve participation and .support l-rojli
both thle publ1-ic a.nd privatc sector.
Wc look forward to thc Worl1d Bank's positive considefation and continl.ied, long-teini
relaiMSonsht withl tIle WorTld Bank arid othier donors.
SIGNED ON BFIT-JALF 01;  -
GOVERNMENT OE; LESOTHO
A                                    /
Dr L.V. KIThOW- j.   -'  --
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND OF<
DEVELOPMEiNT PLANNING



Annex 1 1
Page 8 of 10
ANNEX I
ACHIEVEMENTS DURING lTHE FIFTH PLAN PERIOD (1991 - 1996)
Primary and S;cciidanr Education
Sector Financing and Expenditures
Ilhc GUi, maintained thc 4% annual real incr-ease on tl;c lducation .iuldgct. The cost
centre based bLudgctinig introduced during thic Fifth Plan period produced good icsults inm
was niaintained througliout iihc period.
School Maniiaggenlew
1:,nactmcnt ol tile 1995 Education Act increased community involvem ent in school
maniagemeniit lrouLghl parental and chiefs' rcprcscntation  in School ManagcmenIl
Coommiltccs. I lie training ior thcsc committees tbegun towards ihc cild of the Flillh Plani
periiod.
'[hc introditicton of District Resource Teachers (DRTs), who assist inspietors on school
management and stipervision, significantly imiproved the MOEs manageeilniit capiapcity.
During thic lFifl1h Plan period, the MOF hired 39 additional Inspectors and 78 D)KT1's,
Qualip and E.fficiency Improvements
Thle MOI. raised thic status -.id conditions of thc teaching profession by pl;cing the termŽn
and condiiioPis of service lor tcachers at par with thosc of civil servants. It also creatc,l
and operatioln aliscd tlhc 'I eaching Scrvicc Comm ission.
lhrotigh 11iring 260 teachers annually, 70% of whom were assigned to grades 1-3, tIh
MOF improvcd the pupil:teacher ratio from 54:1 in 1991 to 49-1 in 1996.
'nTC MOI developedi and implemented Terms of Referenice lor the Nationatl ('urriecLuii
Coommittee (NCC). In addition.; revised timet.ibles and syllabi, which arc now bleillt
pilot testcd.  AlItihugih Policy framework ont Curriculum  and Asscssiniecl. lfor Basic
Education were lormulatcd and adoptcd, hliere is necd to link curriculum  wiii
examinations.



Annex  11
Page 9 of 10
The utse olfi birthl ccrtificates and clinical cards lor enitrancc into primaTry CdILcationl hCII)L(l
eradicate under-age primary cnrolrnent.  A thrcc-year campaign aimcd Lat intormingI
parents or the cost of ovcr-age and undcr-age enrolment was conducted and prodtucetl
positive respo.nses firom schlools and parents.
Tlhc MOI imipleimniitcd a policy ol limitingg repetition rates at thc primary lcvcl. Succes .
iii this area is largely attributed to reforms in cri-riculum and inmprovcd distribution ol
instructional materials.
'l[he MOF bLilt 1,094 new primary sclhool classrooms, renovated 49 classrooms, andi
supplied lurriiture, thus rcducing the number of pupils without desks. It also developed ,
classroom innspection tool through a rogramn of"Effeeting School Ch'ange" whiclh ainis  ii
matchiing teaching/leariling objectives with pupilW cxpectationS.
'I'l[e M   ollcdiuctcd inspections of approximately 200 higih schools, OCIusinlg Ol1 sch1o1ol
administration and manaagcment. Most ol the reconimendations bascd on) the findings of
the inspvctions have been implcmciited and irmprovcimcnts i!i examination rcsult.
roaliscd,
National 1'eacher 7raining College (NTTC)
By gratilting autoniomy to NTTC, the MOP  reduced the time requircd  lor direci
supervision of" teacher training and technical edulcation1 Subsequently, N',Il(' establishc(i
a Primary Lltducation Division and an In-Service Division and tihe related tr.ain)ing.
A pro'gram.i for trainiig teachers specifically lor gradcs 1-3 began, althouglh it onily ndill.s
20 students annually due to stafli:n  problems. Finally, NTTC wpgraded the Pre-ServicO
Primara-y  Icachlcs CertiFicate to diploma level and the upgraded Trn-servicc division
gradIatcd its first chorlt iln 1992 and expects the sccond to complete in I )99 and( 2000
for LIl TIV ond PTC respcctivcly.
Tevaiwical and V4cational Education and Trailning (TVL;Y)
The M(O)L granted I 'P autol!,)my, tihus redLucing thc need for direct M01E supervision ill
techniczal. education. In 1993, the GOL ieviscd the Lesotho lcchnical anld Vocationl:n
Trainillg Act No. 25 .  1984 to include apprenticeship traininig not catcrcd for in the ACI.
Mvii toiriitg anzd Evaluation
The Plainning t Jnil o-t thc Ministry of Education. has strengthened its capacity throLugh
training.  FoUr planners received Mastsrs, allholugh 2 of those liavc bccn trarisl6-rrel,
l,fforts are being madc to replace them as soon .S possiblc.



Annex 1 1
Page 10 of 10
TIhle  MOIZl. lnfif-nialion  Systenm  has improved  drastically  i  tcrms of trainiqy
perfiormnnce. tlata collection andl analysis.  'I'he MOE now  publishes its Educatioln
Statistical 13ulICtill  annually and isticulates system pcrformance throLugih l'crformiancs
Indicators and limpact Assessmenit. The Planning Unit of the MOE compiles. npd.ttes and
distributes thcsc documiients annually.
Jraining on the LIsc of computers to monitor schiool-levcl pceformance, ilnspectioI
repoltinig anld classroomil observation has strengillenied the P'rimary Inspecelorae.
The rccruitmient of a Procurcmecnt Agent increased capacity ait the EFU. Addilionially, 11wl
1F.IJ hired 4 procurcment truinecs and receivedl on-the-job training. Th-csc additioil
staff mrcmbers have pro duced riemarkable improvements.



MAP SECTION



-J                       K                                                                                                                                                                      BE,  ,  S   _  I    _   IDRD 299A8
)             j  BOTSWANA                 QZAMHfE                                 28°00                                      28230                                       so00-
NMIRIA                            I0ibbO
I  -i    *                                                                              CsrIedan. Jnels drib 15  on5kih ho..    .   '0 ?                               10P lJH 20   2 a 30KILOMETERS
&W0                                          M ,                                       /,                                          |MabM   s     pin s             A  F        C
ArtAnorr-~  SOUTH AFRICA  ,-J~lW~N                             ,Mollsbes;  A~i~s.i  * ~ii~ea       8 .UH                                                   A      R    C
This mp wosprcidced fy lhe27'30 P'obd-fdhrn <M.hbn M |f\-7sohe>
Mop Dzig Unit of Th. WorLfBonf                                h_'L  ihoo..°                                                                          >{         Leegi-
-d -oyth.,r,f- -- o- onh-wo                      Mehbl.kq.l,fn    pMgk.6.1.      m/   L'S                         G.     Rma;0t                                                                                   2P00'-
this -op do n       on      Lr                                   T.OT6J f9b-4,  ,   B                       -R I E  E°N M  ng                 C      -S9
7                                              B-   TI4-                  f                               SOUT
m   G-P, "o prMpte8 ';"& NkTHE R
pptsh. l golshrus of cny t-ntc y, pr               <oLo2Sr   ;slhi   , ,'                     Dp i         HeT.h;N+snong \  /    \F./               9t                  t7 ..lhisr bo
op Desigrnm Unit of G  WLordank.                        Mof .liSL fQTtkM m/thasaVLoa( oko                    adiee on   -     fon -                  ,al j     0Leg     ¢sa
Tuhe boundaries coor denrnno ion                              -' 0§>> RonboIyn2 oRN                                                               v Moarno  )  -o t                                               29
anyotlan/ inornoa  nobirhaMonr on   MoIkqr n rM Aqrs.  oBe:"                                                    ' ICe  - Ropo                     . .    _So    0          "'
thi trap do  qheot        -b         t    OUt  /    e          L  R&EiO  IH                    Tooph.
The ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ R Mtplbnono4os Worl Hon Grop onjdgnn                                                                     ,'sb.o?    ,1sorn     Tlkef   ON \ris                                        j
any ~          ~             P eadnsareo orup naetoc of      0     r                                                      aneo      0Rso sks i-  D          ~       o   o       Skr         Pln
each ~       ~         Jshesnn           9On/tX        ia booale  -14  tiarabpt3 04                                                                                 0ldelrb     MosaI' sobh 
MAS47 ,        , P, Qil.                                                                                   k.r9 kYoIe  r  inso,,  -  r -Nb=,  . 
-2030   T      r                    dPhohili  °l        ;         T~~~~~~n  t .aolksone   -Mn-o              ,bb  sks-                     s     Non    Hn -                                t ebs
R J_k                                                                                             -9~~~~~~BER A ~ n 
~~ ;--   - ORqlhe-              Atstoqeke         MogWd tepl TLkJ wop MkIhn                                                                        Moplnnb HA A  nEs*<
Oss -oknis   -9~o         $~ft0 
8  ><                       ,                   t             eKhULO; Sm h                    , - >ts               ;        X~~~~~~-  I 
P olako        /      s         e'                       - -.    nR1f;latsoQnK                                            T -I
Ho-nyMGtQtl.'MisR400e s' "s4   ol  -hal, -                                                                                 ta9nTn6   a06o-sg        PtIon,
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o0   Hrup,Ar.Meab    0                 - -tr  _      N i         -                MokbeHr,     'Bbee  on -EC      R obs,   S
2930    ~                  Aelispane          g                ,'                  -o_       los        -en                                           Ltrr E  w                        TlO   T H  O
\                T/<<---oM~~~~~~~.1ib-. (-)   N -_'J: THA                                     OND EDCAIN   ECO
Q   <7 toM4kO"f.,,raie1                                  ,              -                   Tb0 e Teks                        . niao AD IITRTV    DIST ICTS2~
_)   -\\eyibse->1v           9   '       rakol hl-.      
_  6F/lhehIeI.  0>oeqmn    '.syn.   neo4                                      PAVEDyh  ROD                                  °    SEECE  CITnE  AN OWNS
/                                 s_                                          ,J                        - ---- ART  ROD M      TR-K M.,                         NAT   .NA    CP.TA
V+-    ±
Omt0t                       .       i00'o                          ebko'--,                                                                             aaoh
27130  28l00  J                            23430                                       29'0D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'0'
4.A  li OM iFETtN$   H-. ,                                                                0tOsa-e       O      
spole/P  'o4  0Shelk  Male ea                                 0S.oaskasg                                        toto-Ce       LESO TH
Tlsokail.               'o'so.,   ,MahaeDEVELOP                                                                  ENTcsya PRO JECT
\R0;e0v ou5  - -- oGRAVEECROADSo   DITRC   HADURTR
-OUTpH0akn                                                 ~/ AFRCARIER                                                                           -- 9TDITRICToBUNDARIE
-~~~         -~~ riebene                                            oQony~~~~~~~~AIRSTRPS sepp ex I-ehi-H           --se   IorERAINLBUD IE
270P     -~            ~                                                                      28t a30'                                   299cih00 
Mo0Id  Iek-
±   0Moobe   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   jeiresns ~ ~        ~             ~            ~            ~            ~            OTOE  19



