Report No. PID7328
Project Name                     Lesotho-Education Sector Development...
Project II
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       LSPE56416
Borrower                         Kingdom of Lesotho
Implementing Agency              Lesotho Ministry of Education
Mrs. M. Makakole
Director, Planning Unit
Ministry of Education
Maseru, Lesotho
Date of Original PID             June 1998
Date of this PID                 February 1999
Appraisal Date                   December 1998
Proposed Board Date              March 1999
Background
Lesotho is a mountainous country surrounded by the Republic of South
Africa. It has a population of approximately 1.8 million people, many of whom
are geographically isolated and have difficulty accessing services. Lesotho
has two main resources: its human capital and its water. Traditionally,
Lesotho has depended on the exportation of its labor to the South African
labor market, especially to the gold mines. However, opportunities for
employment in the South African mines are significantly declining for a number
of reasons, including increased mechanization, high unemployment within South
Africa itself and weakening gold prices. Through the Highland Water Scheme,
Lesotho has recently started harnessing its water resources for export to
Gauteng, the densely-populated, industrial heartland of South Africa. Over the
past decade, the annual real GDP growth rate averaged more than 8%. Its 1996
per capita income of USD720 was nearly double that of average low-income
countries.
Compared to many other Sub-Saharan African countries, Lesotho has developed a
strong education system with above-average indicators for the region. For
example, in 1996 the gross enrollment rate for primary education was over 100%
and for secondary education it was 31%.   However, the sector faces several
challenges: access to and quality of early childhood development services
vary greatly across the country; participation rates in primary education have
dropped; primary repetition rates remain high although they are falling; there
is a high drop-out rate at the secondary school level; a high portion of the
population is illiterate; the technical and vocational education and training
(TVET) sub-sector is underutilized; and expenditures have increased without
commensurate increases in outcomes, particularly at higher levels of
education.



Project Objectives      The project will assist the Government of Lesotho (GOL)
to create an education system that produces more highly educated Basotho who
become actively employed in the regional and local labor markets and/or
participate in community leadership roles.
Project Description      In line with the GOLs stated priorities for the
sector, the project will have the following three components:
Component 1: Primary and Secondary Education
Physical construction (special focus on building schools in inaccessible
areas)
Curriculum review, testing and assessment
Teaching/learning materials
Teacher development and support
School-level management
Targeted equity based program
Management Information System
Monitoring and evaluation
Component 2: Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET)
Development of a tri-partite management structure (GOL, employees, employers)
Development of an enhanced accreditation/qualification system
Development of financial management and performance monitoring system
Component 3: Non-formal Education (NFE)
Definition of policies and priorities for NFE
Definition of role of Ministry of Education (MOE) relative to other players
Development of operational guidelines
Identification/strengthening of staff capacity
Identification of basic community needs and priorities for unskilled Basotho
Project Costs and Financing      The Education Sector Development Project II is
estimated to cost USD105.7 million. The first phase should total
approximately USD 25.7 million, of which IDA will contribute an estimated USD
20.0 million.
Project Implementation      The project will be implemented by the Planning
Unit of the Ministry of Education under the direction of a Program Advisory
Committee. This Committee, chaired by the PS, will be comprised of the
Director of Planning and selected number of Heads of Programs (HOPs).
Sustainability      [Note:  Flag the factors critical for the sustainability of
project benefits.]The project will be sustainable at the institutional level
since it does not establish a free-standing project implementation unit.
Rather, implementation will be integrated into the regular operation of the
MOE. Sustainability will be further strengthened by capacity building at the
headquarters, districts, and school-level in planning, management and
technical areas. This will take place over the twelve-year period of program
implementation. Technical assistance will have local counterparts so that
skills are passed along and impact sustained.
Program Objective Category      This project forms an integral part of the
GOLs poverty alleviation plan. In particular, the projects focus on
-2 -



expanding access to education for the marginalized populations living in the
isolated, impoverished regions will address this issue.
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 12, 1999.
- 3 -



