Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3192 LSO
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Education Sector Development Project (Phase I))
between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 21, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3192 LSO 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 21, 1999, between KINGDOM OF LESOTHO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated March 16, 1999, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve 
the performance of its education sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its execution of 
the Program through a series of Credits over a period of twelve years, the proceeds of 
such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for implementing the Project; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to obtain or has obtained from various Donors (as 
hereinafter defined) loans and grants to assist in financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Program upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on\0bJune 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Donors" means any national or multinational agency contributing 
resources to, or technical assistance for, the Project; 
(b)
"ECOL" means the Examination Council of Lesotho; 
(c)
"Fiscal Year" or “FY” means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from 
April 1 through March 31 of the year next following; 
(d)
"LCE" means the Lesotho College of Education; 
(e)
"MOE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education; 
(f)
"NCDC" means the National Curriculum Development Center; 
(g)
"PER" means the Public Expenditures Review referred to in paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(h)
"PERSG" means the Public Expenditures Review Steering Group referred to 
in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i)
"Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the Project Implementation 
Manual adopted by the Borrower and containing, inter alia, guidelines, timetables, 
procedures and other arrangements for the purpose of implementing the Project; such 
term includes any schedules and amendments to the PIM as the same may be amended from 
time to time, in consultation with, and with the consent of the Association;
(j)
"Project Management Report" means each one of the reports prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(k)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter of agreement signed by 
the Association on March 2, 1999, and countersigned by the Borrower on March 26, 1999; 
Page  3
(l)
"PSLE" means the Primary School Leaving Examination; 
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(n)
"TVET" means Technical and Vocational Education Training. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 15,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, appropriate 
protection against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Page  4
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15, commencing June 15, 2009 and ending December 15, 2038. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2018 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgement of the Association, 
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and pedagogical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree the Borrower shall:
(a)
open an account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, (the 
Project Account) and thereafter maintain said Project Account under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association until the completion of the Project;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount equivalent to 
$350,000; and (ii) thereafter, on a quarterly basis, replenish the Project Account by 
the amounts required to finance the Borrower’s contribution for expenditures under the 
Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit, or grants and loans 
Page  5
made available by Donors, as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association; and 
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit, or grants and 
loans made available by Donors. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford to the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
Page  6
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2000, or such later date 
as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association  not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or 
loan made to the Borrower for the financing of 
the Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Page  7
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein the 
initial amount referred to in Section 3.02 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower has: (i) established a financial management and accounting 
system satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) appointed the auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association and in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and 
(c)
the Borrower has adopted the PIM in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association. Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for Finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 395
Maseru, 100
Lesotho
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINMIN
4330 LO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  8
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
By /s/ Leketekete V. Ketso 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   5,900,000
90%
(2)
Equipment, vehicles,
   1,500,000
100% of foreign
materials and supplies
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services
   5,500,000
100%
and training
(4)
Incremental operating
     350,000
90%
costs
(5)
Refunding of the
     350,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
   1,400,000
TOTAL
  15,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means expenditures incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring including office 
consumables (such as communication expenses), tickets and subsistence costs for travel 
related to the Project, salaries for contractual staff, office rental, office supplies 
and maintenance, and fuel and maintenance for vehicles and equipment, but excluding 
Page  9
salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures made for: (a) civil works and 
goods not exceeding $250,000 and $100,000 equivalent, respectively; (b) for consulting 
firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent and for individual 
consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in its efforts to 
improve the performance and efficiency of its education sector inter alia by promoting 
equity, increasing access to education, improving the quality of primary and secondary 
education and establishing an adequate institutional framework for the provision of 
early childhood development services, technical and vocational training as well as 
non-formal education.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications as 
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Early Childhood Development Program 
1.
(a)
Formulation of an appropriate regulatory framework for the provision of 
early childhood development services within the Borrower's territory; and
(b)
design of a national appropriate curriculum to be followed for the 
provision of early childhood development services. 
2.
Design and carrying out of a pilot program aimed at training providers (trainers 
and teachers) of early childhood development services in subject-matters pertaining to 
the provision of the said services in the most efficient manner. 
3.
Design and implementation of a pilot community-based scheme aimed at providing 
early childhood development services in the most cost-effective manner in two selected 
remote and less accessible areas in the Borrower's territory.
Part B:
Improvement of Primary and Secondary Education 
1.
Carrying out of national consultations aimed at fostering the formulation and 
adoption of a national curriculum framework for primary and secondary education. 
2.
Upgrading ECOL and strengthening its capacity to enable it to carry out its 
mandate and enforce national examinations and certification standards in an effective 
and efficient manner.
3.
Formulation and implementation of a Distance Teacher Education Program aimed at: 
(a) enhancing the provision of in-service training for teachers; and (b) increasing 
the numbers of teachers entering the pre-service training program from 200 to 500 for 
each year.
4.
Improvement and expansion of primary school facilities through: (a) construction 
of about 200 additional primary classrooms; and (b) rehabilitation of about 26 
existing student hostels at LCE.
5.
Strengthening managerial capacity at the primary and secondary school level 
inter alia by: (a) promoting the establishment of school committees comprising 
representatives of school operators, parents and teachers; (b) fostering a wide 
dissemination of basic laws and regulations governing school operations; and (c) 
providing practical training to relevant school officials and school partners in 
general and financial management topics so as to enhance their ability to interact 
Page  10
efficiently within the school committees. 
6.
Design and implementation of a pilot scheme aimed at attracting and encouraging 
disadvantaged children from remote areas to enter the primary and secondary education 
system.
7.
Carrying out of: (a) public expenditure reviews; and (b) a performance and 
budget management review; all within MOE aimed at gaining a better understanding of 
current deficiencies that affect budget and financial management in MOE so as to 
design appropriate management tools including medium term expenditures frameworks to 
redress those deficiencies. 
8.
Upgrading and updating MOE’s management information system so as to increase its 
efficiency.
Part C:
Enhancing the Technical and Vocational Education Framework 
1.
Establishment of a TVET management structure, encompassing representatives of 
the Borrower as well as those of employers and employees, with a view to developing 
technical and vocational education training programs consonant with the labor market 
needs. 
2.
Establishment of an accreditation system aimed at certifying the qualifications 
of those graduating from accredited technical and vocational schools. 
3.
Carrying out of a study to assess the full cost incurred by the Borrower to 
provide quality TVET within its territory with a view to identifying all appropriate 
alternative ways for ensuring the provision of quality TVET to the Borrower’s 
nationals in the most cost-effective and sustainable manner.
Part D:
Promotion of Non-formal Education. 
1.
Assessment of the respective role and functions of the public and private 
sectors in the provision and financing of non-formal education. 
2.
Formulation of plans to increase MOE’s capacity to deliver non-formal education 
services which are consistent with its role and functions as identified in the 
assessment referred to in paragraph 1 above. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following 
provisions of this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Page  11
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each for goods and $500,000 equivalent or more 
each for works.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic Contractors  
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
School furniture, science laboratory kits, and printing of manuals, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Photocopiers, computers and office equipment, estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent, per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $ 300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, which are not 
available locally, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies Computers, office equipment and vehicles estimated 
to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured from, IAPSO, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully. 
6.
Community Participation
Works, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $ 1,000,000 for 
school construction may be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.15 of the Guidelines and modalities and procedures acceptable to the Association.
Page  12
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more and each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II 
of this Schedule. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of consultant’s qualifications in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Least Cost
Services for audits and services estimated to cost less than $50,000 up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Page  13
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks meeting the requirements of Section V of the consultant 
Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the PIM and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision 
of said PIM if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set forth 
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project; and
(b)
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments: (i)
not 
later than October 31 of each year, commencing on October 31, 1999, or such later date 
as the Association may agree, until the completion of the Project, the draft work 
programs (including those related to training activities, workshops and study tours) 
and budgets for the Project for the next Fiscal Year; and
(ii)
not later than October 31 of each year, or such later date as the Association 
may agree, commencing on October 31, 2000, until the completion of the Project, an 
Page  14
annual report setting forth, inter alia: (A) a summary of the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph, and (B) progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project. 
3.
(a)
By June 30, of each year, commencing June 30, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association may agree, until the completion of the Project, the Borrower and the 
Association shall carry out an annual review of the Project (hereinafter called the 
Annual Review); such Annual Review shall cover the progress achieved in the execution 
of the Project and, inter alia, review the information furnished in accordance with 
paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule, and work programs to be carried out under the 
Project during the following FY.
(b)
Following such Annual Review the Borrower shall carry out said work 
programs in accordance with modalities and procedures approved by the Association and 
in accordance with the PIM, and shall not make any material change to the approved 
programs without the prior approval of the Association. 
4.
(a)
Not later than June 30, 2001, or such other date as the Borrower and the 
Association shall agree upon, the Borrower and the Association shall carry out a 
mid-term review (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review). The Borrower shall 
take all actions it considers necessary to ensure the participation of Donors, in such 
Midterm Review. Such Midterm Review shall cover the progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Donors including the Association, for their review and comments, a 
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
implementation of the Project.
(c)
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the Association 
to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project and the Program, 
as the case may be, or to implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
until the completion of the Project, maintain the PERSG, with functions 
and membership satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
ensure that, each year, a PER for the education sector is carried out by 
PERSG in accordance with the modalities set forth in the PIM;
(c)
not later than August 31 of each year, submit to the Association for its 
review and comments a draft report on the PER referred to in paragraph (b) above; and 
(d) take into account the comments and recommendations made by the Association with a 
view to adjusting budgetary allocations for the education sector within the context of 
the Medium-Term Expenditures Framework (MTEF) methodology agreed upon with the 
Association, to levels acceptable to the Association as required to achieve the 
performance indicators referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
6.
The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 31, 2001, establish the TVET 
management structure and the TVET accreditation and graduate certification system 
referred to under Part C of the Project with membership and functions satisfactory to 
the Association; (b) not later than December 31, 1999, establish baseline data 
required to enable the Borrower to monitor adequately the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the execution of the Project; and (c) ensure that the management 
information system referred to under Part B.8 of the Project is upgraded and updated 
regularly so as to provide the Borrower with reliable data required to measure the 
overall performance of its education sector.
7.
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the study referred to under Part C.3 of the 
Project; (b) not later than June 30, 2002, submit the results and recommendations of 
the said studies to the Association for its review and comments;  (c) promptly take 
into account the comments and recommendations made by the Association; and (d) 
thereafter, implement the recommendations of the said studies as agreed and in 
Page  15
accordance with the timetable agreed upon with the Association.
8.
The Borrower shall: (a) design the scheme referred to under Part B.6 of the 
Project not later than December 31, 2000; and (b) promptly thereafter take all 
measures required on its part, including the carrying out of advocacy campaigns aimed 
at attracting disadvantaged children into the classroom.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $ 
1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
eligible Categories, and in the equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
Page  16
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the performance 
indicators set forth below: 
1.
The net enrollment rate in grades 1 to 7 shall have been increased from 68% to 
73% by December 31, 2002.
2.
Two separate laws, satisfactory in substance to the Association, shall have been 
enacted: (a) by December 31, 2000 with respect to the provision of technical and 
vocational education services; and (b) by December 31, 2001, with respect to the 
Page  17
organization and provision of non-formal education services. 
3.
An adequate framework, acceptable to the Association shall have been established 
to foster the financing of technical and vocational education services in a 
sustainable fashion. 
4.
By December 31, 2002, at least 70% of recurrent expenditures incurred by MOE 
shall have been expended for primary and secondary education services in accordance 
with the forecasts made through the MTEF. 
5.
By December 31, 2001 (a) Advisory and Management Committees (AMC) shall have 
been established in not less than 75% of primary and secondary schools duly accredited 
by the Borrower, and (b) the Borrower has submitted to the Association a report of 
such scope and detail as reasonably determined by the Association, on the performance 
of the said AMCs.
