                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 34849

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (SCL-44210)

                                          ON A

                                         LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                          FOR

                           ANHUI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT




                                     February 22, 2006




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 2005)

                   Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                           Y1.00 = US$ 0.12374
                       US$ 1.00 = Y8.08154

                         FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 - December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AADT                -        Annual Average Daily Traffic
ADB                 -        Asian Development Bank
AECL                -        Anhui Expressway Company Limited
AHAB                -        Anhui Highway Administration Bureau
AHP2                -        Second Anhui Highway Project
APCD                -        Anhui Provincial Communications Department
E&M                 -        Electrical and Mechanical
EAP                 -        Environmental Action Plan
EIRR                -        Economic Internal Rate of Return
FIRR                -        Financial Internal Rate of Return
GOVAI               -       Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
HAE                 -        Hefei-Anqing Expressway
HMP                 -        Highway Maintenance Program
ICB                 -        International Competitive Bidding
MOC                 -        Ministry of Communications
MTE                 -        Medium Truck Equivalent
NCB                 -        National Competitive Bidding
NPV                 -        Net Present Value
NTHS                -        National Trunk Highway System
PEO                 -        Project Execution Office
RAP                 -        Resettlement Action Plan
VOC                 -        Vehicle Operating Costs



                  Vice President:     Jeffrey Gutman, Acting EAPVP
               Country Director       David R. Dollar, EACCF
                Sector Manager        Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Aurelio Menendez, EASTR

                                               CHINA
                                 Anhui Provincial Highway Project


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
   6. Sustainability                                                                11
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
   9. Partner Comments                                                              16
   10. Additional Information                                                       22
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             49
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             51
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                52
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            53
MAP(S)
  1.  Anhui Transport System (IBRD No. 29507R)
  2.  Hefei-Anqing Expressway (IBRD No. 29508R)

Project ID: P050036                                                  Project Name: Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Team Leader: Aurelio Menendez                                        TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 22, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Anhui Provincial Highway Project                         L/C/TF Number: SCL-44210
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (98%); Sub-national government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Municipal governance and institution building (P); Access to urban services and housing (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/24/1998                                     Effective: 04/15/1999                05/28/1999
     Appraisal: 08/25/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/15/1998                                      Closing: 08/31/2004                 08/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA/ANHUI PROVINCIAL
                                           COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey S. Gutman                              Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Jitendra N. Bajpai
Team Leader at ICR:             Aurelio Menendez                               Yasuhiro Kawabata
ICR Primary Author:             Aurelio Menendez


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project had the following objectives: (i) to relieve traffic congestion and improve the mobility and
integration of inter-provincial trade, commerce and tourism between Anhui and the coastal region; (ii) to
improve and rehabilitate the existing national and provincial highways; (iii) to improve the safety of road
transport; and (iv) to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Anhui Provincial Communications
Department (APCD) and its related sector institutions.

The project objectives were clear and in accordance with the long-term development goals of the
Government of China. The project objectives were also in line with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for China presented to the Board on March 18, 1997. The Bank's strategy (confirmed in a
similar manner in the subsequent 2003 CAS) supported the alleviation of infrastructure bottlenecks aimed
at stimulating the economic development of interior lagging provinces through the provision of better
inter-provincial connections and direct access to ports and major cities in the coastal provinces.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objectives remained the same throughout project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of the following four components:

     a) Construction of the Hefei-Anqing Expressway (HAE). This component included: (i) the
         construction of a high-grade highway of about 152 km between Hefei and Anqing in Anhui,
         divided into two sections, one of about 126 km between Hefei and Haohebu and another of about
         26 km between Goehebu and Anqing , the second-largest city in the Anhui Province, including the
         construction of interchanges; (ii) construction of toll stations and auxiliary service and office
         buildings along the highway; and (iii) supply and installations of electrical, electronic, and
         mechanical equipment for toll collection, monitoring, telecommunications and lightning systems.

     b) Highway Maintenance Program (HMP). This component consisted of the improvement and
         rehabilitation of about 240 km of provincial highways in the areas of Luan, Shouxian, Chaolu,
         Xiaohuai, and Yangtao in Anhui as part of a program to strengthen the condition of critical road
         segments and promote the upkeep of the existing highway network.

     c) Highway Safety Component. For carrying out a program of improvement in highway safety in
         Anhui consisting of a study on highway traffic accidents and a pilot program for improvement of
         accident black spots.

     d) Institutional Strengthening Component included: (i) strengthening the institutional capacity of the
         Anhui Provincial Communications Department and its affiliated institutions in the areas of
         highway planning, design, construction management and supervision, operations and maintenance;
         traffic safety; financial planning; project implementation management; and environmental
         protection and monitoring; through the provision of training, equipment and consultants' services;
         and (ii) carrying out a study with a view to formulate recommendations for the improvement of the
         planning, financing, management, and operation of expressways and other toll highways in Anhui.



                                                       - 2 -

The project also included the counterpart funds for the financing of the resettlement and rehabilitation of
persons to be affected by the construction of the HAE. In addition, given the uncertainties involved
particularly in the construction of the new HAE, the project included a large allocation to price and
physical contingencies (amounting to about 19% of the total project costs).

3.4 Revised Components:

The components remained substantially similar during project implementation. The only major departure
from the initial financing plan involved the component for the supply and installation of electrical and
mechanical (E&M) works. Ultimately, as explained below, the financing of this component was assumed
by the APCD. Also, complementary investments under the highway rehabilitation component were
implemented to use part of the unallocated funds.

Tendering activities for the supply and installation of E&M works commenced in March 2000 as planned.
However, the internal clearance process for bid evaluation at the provincial and central levels substantially
delayed procurement of this component. While the HAE was completed and opened to traffic in October
2002, tendering activities for the E&M works were still under bid evaluation. In order to avoid further
delays, APCD decided to locally finance the contract for the supply and installation of E&M works so that
the implementation of this component could be completed quickly and the necessary E&M equipment and
the related facilities could become operational sooner for the safe operation of the highway. This
component was finally completed in August 2003, which constituted a delay of about five months
compared to the originally scheduled date.

About two years before the original closing date, --once the ultimate costs of the HAE could be estimated
with a high degree of certainty and, hence, APCD could calculate with a similar degree of certainty the
amount of funds under the unallocated category that were to remain unused--, the APCD estimated that
there would be about US$25 million of unused loan funds and proposed to use these funds for the
implementation of complementary investments under the highway rehabilitation component. The Bank
approved this proposal in November 2002. Complementary roads included about 259 km of rural roads in
8 counties, among which 6 counties were classified as poor.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The overall quality at entry is rated satisfactory. This rating is based on: (i) the consistency of project
objectives with China's priorities for the sector; (ii) strong ownership of the project by APCD; (iii) the
importance given to Bank policies, particularly those required by the environmental and resettlement
safeguards, and to those of a sector-specific nature suggested during preparation (like those related to
road-safety aspects); (iv) the importance assigned to technology transfer and quality assurance; and (v) the
appropriate combination of and balance among project components to achieve the project objective.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Despite delays in the implementation of some project components, the project objectives were substantially
met and its achievement is assessed as satisfactory.




                                                       - 3 -

A. Relieve traffic congestion and improve the mobility and integration of international trade,
commerce and tourism.

The execution of the investments for the construction of the HAE was adequately completed by the
scheduled date. In 2002, when the HAE opened to operations, the congestion along the project-targeted
corridor was relieved substantially and the overall transport capacity and mobility along the corridor was
enhanced. The traffic diverted to the newly completed expressway varied by road segment, from 17% to
73%. The traffic volume on the main National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) section between Hefei and
Gezidun was much higher than estimated (between 9% and 32%). On the other hand, the diversion rate
from the existing road to the HAE was slightly lower than initially estimated, and the diversion rate on the
southern branch line of the expressway (the Gezidun ­ Zongpu section) was much lower than expected.
However, since the new second Anqing bridge crossing over the Yangtze River was completed in October
2004 and connected with the Gezidun ­ Zongpu section shortly thereafter, it is expected that the
long-distance traffic will use the HAE. The total value of goods transported to coastal provinces, which
have deep-water ports, reached about RMB6 billion in 2004, which was about 20% higher than the
estimate at appraisal.

B. Improve and rehabilitate the existing national and provincial highways

Under the Highway Maintenance Program (HMP), about 500 km of road sections with a low Pavement
Quality Index, out of about 8,000 km provincial paved road sections, were improved and rehabilitated.
This program contributed to stabilizing the condition of the existing network at a sustainable level. The
institutional strengthening actions and further technical assistance activities under the follow-up Second
Anhui Highway Project --on confronting the problem of overloading of trucks and in strengthening the
road management capacity of the APCD-- sought to establish a more sustainable framework for the
stabilization of road conditions.

C. Improve the safety of road transport

The road safety objective was satisfactorily achieved. The main sub-component dealing with blackspot
treatment was successfully completed. These actions for instance allowed the reduction of accident rates
along National Highway G206--in terms of number of accidents per 100 million vehicles--by half by
2004. Together with efforts to better coordinate with the traffic police, including the provision of traffic
accident data, a study on highway traffic accidents was successfully completed. The study findings were
instrumental in designing the traffic safety component under the follow-on project.

D. Strengthen institutional capacity of road sector institutions

Through overseas training and study tours and participation in studies and supervision during project
implementation, the APCD's staff received satisfactory exposure to new concepts and opportunities to
learn new practices and technical approaches. The capacity of the highway sector entity--the
APCD--improved during the implementation of the project as shown, for instance, in the swift and
satisfactory preparation of the follow-on Second Anhui Highway Project (Loan 7183-CAN). In addition,
the findings of the study on the planning, financing and management of the toll highway network were
found useful and helped plan and design subsequent highway projects including the Tongling-Tankou
Highway--currently being executed under the Second Anhui Highway Project.




                                                     - 4 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

A. Construction of the Hefei-Anqing Expressway (US$263.5 million, PAD; US$325.0 million, ICR)

This component is rated as highly satisfactory overall. Field inspections at completion (September 2002)
showed that the construction quality of HAE was highly satisfactory. The HAE opened to traffic on
October 2, 2002. A 26-km branch line from Gaohebu to Anqing (the Gezidun ­ Zongpu section) was
originally planned as a four-lane divided Class 1 highway, with Anqing as the ending point. However, right
after the project was approved by the Bank's Board of Directors, the technical standard of this section was
upgraded to the expressway standard as dictated by a newly approved MOC's policy that required the
expressway standard for all main trunk sections. The Provincial Government believed that this branch line
linked with the proposed expressway, which crosses over the Chang-Jiang (Yangtze) river and connects
with neighboring Jiangxi province, had all the characteristics of a main trunk section and deserved to
comply with that policy. The Gaohebu-Anqing section, with an expressway standard, was constructed
within the right of way secured for a Class I standard highway. To achieve this in some sections, retaining
walls were built at the edge of the road embankment in order to fit the roadway within the existing
right-of-way. The change in the design standard increased the overall cost of this component.

The component on the supply and installation of E&M works was originally to be financed by the Bank
with a percentage of 80% to facilitate the importation of that equipment duty free. When the HAE was
opened to traffic in October 2002, even though APCD commenced the tender process as planned (March
2000), the bid evaluation for the E&M contract was still under review by the Bank and Chinese agencies.
In order to avoid further delay in the installation of the E&M equipment and related facilities, APCD
decided to finance this component entirely with local funds. The process commenced in October 2002 and
was completed in August 2003, which was about 10 months after the HAE was opened to traffic in
October 2002.

B. Construction supervision of HAE (US$9.2 million, PAD; US$11.1 million, ICR)

The construction supervision of the HAE was satisfactory. It was carried out by a joint supervision team
of local engineers and international consulting engineers. The joint supervision team approach, with
international consulting engineering firms playing a supporting role to provide outside knowledge on a
variety of complex technical topics, proved effective in improving the value of the supervision and helped
the local counterparts appreciate the importance of quality control and assurance.

C. Improvement and rehabilitation of existing highways (US$50.5 million, PAD; US$108.1 million,
ICR)

The original Highway Maintenance Program (HMP) consisted of 6 road sections with a total length of
about 240 km. Later, through the allocation of the unused loan funds, the HMP was complemented with
four additional sections with a total length of about 260 km. The assessment of this component is
satisfactory as it has contributed appropriately to keep the condition of the rehabilitated network at a level
that can be maintained in a sustainable manner.




                                                       - 5 -

D. Improve the safety of road transport (US$3.1 million, PAD; US$2.9 million, ICR)

The two subcomponents of this component--a study on highway traffic accidents and a pilot program for
the treatment of black-spots--were implemented satisfactorily. The pilot program was completed by
December 2001, and the accident study was completed in January 2002. The study findings were
instrumental in designing the traffic safety components of the follow-up Second Anhui Highway Project. In
the second project, a more encompassing black-spot improvement program was designed and the issue of
road safety has been emphasized to a larger extent than before the initiation of the Anhui Provincial
Highway Project and maintstreamed in the activities of the APCD.

E. Provision of equipment (US$9.2 million, PAD; US$8.8 million, ICR)

Equipment urgently needed at laboratories for research and for environmental monitoring was locally
purchased at the early stage of construction of HAE. Additional equipment, including 62 items required for
research and environmental monitoring, was purchased in 2000. Procurement of equipment needed for
operation and maintenance of highways commenced in mid-2000 and the delivery of the last batch of
equipment was completed by the end of 2004. About ten items which could not be timely purchased were
cancelled from the initial list of equipment to be purchased under the project. All the equipment (48 items
with 62 units) purchased under the project has been (and continues to be) fully utilized.

F. Strengthen the institutional capacity (US$2.4 million, PAD; US$1.9 million, ICR)

Study of Planning, Finance and Operation of Toll Highways. This study, including the analysis of the
structure of toll rates for the HAE, was completed in March 2003, with assistance from a Singaporean
expert. The findings and recommendations of the study served as a basis for developing the expressway
network plan in Anhui, within a framework of a balanced approach of investments across the different
classes of roads as well as a toll rate structure that considered the tradeoffs of financial viability and
economic benefits.

Training. The overseas and domestic training programs were completed satisfactorily. The training
program proved to be an effective tool in transferring technology and management know-how and gave
staff exposure to new concepts and modern construction procedures. A total of 749 persons received 993
person-months of domestic training. Ninety three persons received about 94 person-months of training
abroad, and 29 APCD staff participated in the study tour abroad (for 14.5 person-months), on average
above 96% of the initially estimated number of people or person-months. The training covered a wide
range of subjects related to planning, design, supervision management and operation of highways,
environmental monitoring, financial management, and road safety. On-the- job training and technology
transfer were provided during the construction period by the foreign supervision engineers.

G. Land Acquisition and Resettlement (US$26.6 million, PAD; US$27.2 million, ICR)

The local funds assigned for covering the needs of resettlement and land acquisition were allocated
adequately. They required a slight increase (2.2%) compared to the initial estimation. In the next section,
further details are given on the implementation of this component.

H. Safeguard policy

Environmental protection. Major environmental impacts of this project include noise and air pollution
during construction and operation. Impacts also included water pollution during the construction phase and


                                                       - 6 -

adverse impacts on irrigation systems. During construction, mitigating measures were implemented for air,
noise, and water pollution and soil erosion. Considerable efforts were made to protect the environment and
minimize social disruption and accidents during the haulage of construction materials, as agreed in the
Environmental Action Plan (EAP).

No unforeseen adverse environmental problem arose. Monitoring of air and water quality, noise, lead
content of soil, and crops and herbage was carried out regularly, in compliance with the EAP
recommendations. The latest monitoring report confirmed that the noise levels in the residential areas were
lower than the standards required both during the day and at night; air quality did not worsen and met
agreed standards; and the highways did not cause any significant negative impact on water in rivers along
the highways.

Throughout project implementation, environmental management has been built into the project management
mechanism, and dedicated professional staff was assigned by the PMO, contractors and engineers to
monitor and supervise the implementation of the environmental measures developed in the EAP.
Environmental training was delivered for more than 250 staff participants in the country and 9
person-months overseas. A strong environmental management capacity has been built for APCD during
the project implementation which significantly contributed to the successful preparation and, thus far, the
smooth implementation in terms of environmental safeguards of the ongoing Second Anhui Highway
Project.

Land acquisition and resettlement. In the course of implementation of the HAE, participation of the
project-affected people was encouraged. The compensation rates were fully disclosed and complied with,
and the rehabilitation program was intensively discussed. The appropriate amount of farmland was
redistributed after land acquisition. Thirty percent of the land compensation funds were used for irrigation
improvement in the villages and the remaining funds were distributed among all the villagers for the
development of productive activities. Substantial efforts were put into the relocation of the enterprises.
Production levels of the relocated enterprises were restored. The resettlement implementation was
successful and the affected people were satisfied. The internal monitoring reports and three external
monitoring reports were produced during the implementation of the resettlement activities. The impacts of
the HAE on resettlement and land acquisition are summarized in the table below. The summary table
shows that the resettlement and land acquisition plan followed the one established under the RAP (where
there was a amount of 10% set aside for contingencies).


                              Major Items                    RAP         Actual       % change
                 1. Land acquisition (mu)                      16,466      16,387          --0.5%
                 2. House demolition (m²)                      88,176      94,569          + 7.3%
                 3. Residential households relocated              768         775          + 0.9%
                 4. Number of people relocated                   2,757      2,787          + 1.1%
                 5. Number of enterprises relocated                 18         27        + 50.0%
                 6. Resettlement cost ( Y million)             221.00      225.79          + 2.2%




4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic evaluation is comprised of two components: the Hefei-Anqing Expressway (HAE) and the
Highway Maintenance Program (HMP). The economic evaluation covers each subcomponent and provides



                                                     - 7 -

the prorated value for the entire project. The detailed analysis is in Annex 3 and results are summarized as
follows:

Hefei-Anqing Expressway (HAE). The Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of the HAE is
estimated to be 22.2% versus the PAD estimate of 25.6%, and the Net Present Value (NPV), at a discount
rate of 12%, is estimated to be Y 3.96 billion. The recalculated EIRR and ENPV are lower than
anticipated at appraisal mainly because of increases in the economic costs of the HAE (December 2005
constant prices) and less traffic demand on two sections of HAE. The results are summarized as follows
and the detailed analysis is in Part I of Annex 3.

                                 HAE: EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, Y million)
                                        PAD                               ICR
                               EIRR          NPV /1               EIRR           NPV
                                25.6         4,063.2               22.2        3,956.7
                            /_1: 1998 prices have been updated to 2005 prices.

Highway Maintenance Program (HMP). The EIRR for HMP is estimated at 31.4% versus the PAD
estimate of 37.6%, and the NPV, at a discount rate of 12%, is estimated to be Y 1.25 billion. The EIRR
stated in the PAD covers only the initial set of roads identified for rehabilitation at appraisal (Phase 1),
while another set of almost 260 km (Phase 2) was added in November 2002 when there was certainty that
the unallocated funds were very likely to remain unused. The EIRR for the ICR covers both phases. The
results are summarized as follows and the detailed analysis is in Part II of Annex 3.

                                              HMP: EIRR AND NPV
                                       EIRR (in %)               NPV (12%, Y million)
                                     PAD         ICR              PAD /1           ICR
                       Phase 1        37.6       32.9              903.2          783.1
                       Phase 2         --        26.6                --           493.2
                         Total       37.6        31.4              903.2       1,247.9
                     /_1: 1998 prices have been updated to 2005 prices.

EIRR and NPV for the entire project. The EIRR and NPV for the entire project (HAE and HMP) is
estimated to be 23.5% and Y 5.2 billion, respectively, compared with 27.1% estimated in the PAD. The
NPV at the end of the project (about Y 5.2 billion) on the other hand was about 5% higher than the value
estimated at appraisal. The detailed analysis is in Part III of Annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The financial evaluation of the project comprises the evaluation of three elements: (a) the revenue earning
component (the HAE, tolled road); (b) the non-revenue earning component (the HMP, non-tolled roads);
and (c) the financial capacity of APCD to sustain highway activities. These three elements are presented in
detail in part IV of Annex 3.

For the revenue earning component, the financial evaluation shows that the FIRR for the HAE, which
constitutes about 77.6% of the total project investment, is expected to be less than 1 percent. The NPV (at
a 4.63% discount rate--the prorated percentage of the interest rates of the Bank loan and average domestic
loans) would be Y -1.29 billion. In the PAD, the FIRR and NPV (12%) for the HAE were estimated to be
12.8% and Y 0.1311 billion, respectively. The main reasons for the lower FIRR are the higher capital
investment and the low profit margin because of lower-than-expected demand. However, current estimates



                                                      - 8 -

show that the HAE will not need any financial assistance after 2005 due to the strong cash flow status as
shown by current toll revenues and those expected for the years ahead.

For the non revenue earning component--the HMP, about 22.4% of the total project investment--the
financial evaluation focuses on the availability of sufficient counterpart funds and the operating expenses
given the nature of financial risks on those investments. All the indicators show that the financial risks are
modest. The detailed analysis is in Part IV of Annex 3.

APCD provided its financing plan on total revenue and expenditure for the Tenth Five Year Plan (10th
FYP, 2001-2005). The amount of resources the APCD has received from various sources and has
allocated to road activities appears adequate in overall terms. On the revenue side, for the period
2001-2005 (corresponding to the 10th five-year plan), the APCD has received an ever increasing amount of
resources.

According to the Anhui highway development plan, APCD has acquired sufficient funds to finance yearly
increases in the length of the provincial road network and has allocated a moderately-increasing amount of
resources for the maintenance of the existing road network. In addition, a reasonable self-financing ratio
(50.1 percent for the 10th FYP) helped ensure the implementation of the highway development plan. To
avoid a capital squeeze effect (i.e., focusing the annual resources only on new road construction to the
detriment of the maintenance on the existing roads), APCD has shown increasing attention to road
maintenance. With regards to the sustainability of road maintenance, the average yearly increase in
maintenance expenditures during the 10th FYP (2.4 percent) exceeded the growth of the road network (2.1
percent), which means an increase in the average maintenance expenditure per kilometer.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The overall institutional development impact was positive. A significant transfer of knowledge and
technology on international business practices took place during project implementation. Overall 871 staff
were trained through foreign and domestic studies and tours. Local engineers, with foreign experts,
supervised the construction of the expressway using the FIDIC (Federation Internationale Des
Ingenieurs-Conseils) contractual approach. This implementation arrangement helped raise the quality of
civil works and enabled the transfer of know-how. Experience with competitive bidding was enhanced
through the use of procurement advisors. The findings and recommendations of the study on the planning,
financing and operation of toll highways provided the analytical and methodological basis for the later
development of a plan for the expressway network in Anhui.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Adverse weather conditions over the period between September 2000 and February 2001 caused delay of
implementation of planned civil works and thus contractors were granted an extension of the contract
period by five months. In order to ensure that the construction quality was not affected by shortening the
contract period--a tendency often present in China with the construction of expressways, instilled by the
desire to accelerate completion of projects--the original contract period stipulated in the contracts was
retained as it was initially established (42 months). Often, in China, once the opening date is set, a
contractor is not allowed to change the original completion date. In Anhui, however, the Bank insisted in
keeping the original construction period (42 months) and in some cases even extending the contract to



                                                      - 9 -

ensure the good quality of the works, lest roads will encounter construction defects later in the operational
period. In this context, and because of the delays caused by the harsh climate conditions, the original
completion date of the expressway contracts was postponed from July 28, 2002 to December 28, 2002.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Institutional capability of Project Execution Office (PEO). The project required participation of
numerous departments under the provincial government, and relevant agencies under APCD. At the early
stage of the project implementation, the institutional capacity of PEO was found to be very weak. Most of
staff in PEO worked for the project on the part-time basis, and thus PEO had not properly performed a
coordinating role to implement the project due to the understaffed setup of the implementing agency.
According to the Bank's recommendation, APCD took immediate actions to strengthen the institutional
capacity of the PEO. Yet, the coordination role of PEO to manage the project among the relevant
provincial departments and agencies remained weak in some components not under their direct control.
Particularly, since Anhui Expressway Company Limited (AECL) was directly responsible for the
procurement of equipment, the PEO was not regularly or properly informed of the progress and issues that
came out in the procurement of equipment. However, this weak coordinating performance is
understandable since the public administration and management is undertaken independently by each
relevant office in China, though it remains an area where further efforts must be carried out.

Lengthy tendering process of procuring equipment. Due to cumbersome clearance processes at the
provincial and national levels of bidding documents and bid evaluation reports for imported equipment,
some equipment could not be procured according to the planned schedule. For instance, bidding documents
for five packages under the second batch of equipment acquisition, were approved by the Bank in January
2001 but the letter requesting no-objection to the proposed awardees was sent to the Bank only in June
2002. Moreover, changes to the original equipment models as a consequence of changes in the demand by
the end-user (relevant agencies), some equipment was not purchased with Bank financing support. This
equipment was later procured with local funds.

Component for the supply and installation of E&M works cancelled from Bank financing. Sale of
bidding documents commenced in March 2000 as originally planned. However, due to delay of internal
clearance process at the central agency level, the final bid evaluation report was sent to the Bank only in
July 2002. After the Bank issued the no-objection to award in July 2002, the Bank received a complaint
from one of bidders regarding the eligibility of one of the winning bidders. The Bank requested APCD to
submit the relevant information and documents including original bid documents submitted by the bidder to
verify the eligibility of the bidder. APCD was concerned about the further delay these additional reviews
(and possibly the re-bidding process) would bring to the installation of E&M facilities and officially
informed the Bank that due to time constraints, it decided to quickly procure the E&M facilities with local
funds and request the cancellation of the loan amount originally allocated to the corresponding. After this
decision, the works for the E&M facilities commenced in October 2002 and were completed in August
2003.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Component for the supply and installation of E&M works cancelled from Bank financing. The
procurement delay of foreign electronic and mechanical equipment for the expressway, was caused
largely by the lengthy review process undertaken by the central agencies; and to lesser extent, due to lack of
thorough review of bids by the implementing agency. This lengthier process--that started when the Bank
received a complaint by one of the bidders, and finished with the cancellation of the E&M component
--could have been avoided by an improved review of the tender documents by APCD.


                                                     - 10 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$453.9 million (including the resettlement and land
acquisition costs, and contingencies of US$87.4 million, or about 19% of the total project costs), of which
US$ 200.0 million were to be financed with the Bank loan. The total actual cost of the project amounts to
US$ 506.7 million, or about 11.6% higher than the initial estimate.

The works for the HAE, including installation of E&M equipment and the related buildings, were estimated
to cost US$263.5 million at appraisal, whereas the actual cost amounted to US$325 million, an increase of
about 23 percent. The substantial increase in the cost of civil works is due to the change of technical
standard from the class 1 highway to an expressway in the branch line section from Gaohebu to Anqing.
Another reason for the cost increase was the higher number of interchanges built along the HAE--to a total
number of seven--to enhance the access to several cities along the corridor, attending those requests
properly justified. Furthermore, soon after the project commenced, the Anhui provincial government
approved a new highway network development plan (Tenth Five-Year Plan starting in 2001) consisting of
1,600 km of expressways. An expressway connecting with Tongling was linked with HAE at Lujiang,
adding another interchange to the initial design. The final number of interchanges totaled seven or one
every 22 kilometers on average.

On the financing side, APCD decided to locally finance the supply and installation of the E&M works and
the corresponding amount of US$9.6 million was cancelled from the loan on March 25, 2003.

The price escalation rate was much lower than estimated during the implementation of the project, and thus
the unallocated category remained unused. When it was possible to make a good estimate of the final cost
of the HAE, APCD proposed the use of the unallocated amount to complement the highway maintenance
component. The total cost of HMP was increased from original US$50.5 million to US$108.1million, of
which an amount equivalent to US$34.8 million came from the Bank loan.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project is likely to be highly sustainable. This rating is based on the appropriate completion of the
project components--with the adequate engineering features and construction quality--and the
achievements reached through the institutional development components, leading to the efforts of APCD to
enhance the upkeep of the road assets in the province. Specifically, the HS rating is supported by the
following:

    ·   The completion of the HAE has supported the development of road infrastructure to relieve traffic
        congestion and improve the mobility and integration of inter-provincial trade, commerce and
        tourism between the low-income province in Anhui and the costal region. The quality of the civil
        works of the HAE was satisfactory. An inspection right after the final closing date of the Loan
        (September 2005) showed the good quality of the works, though cracks had appeared in a few
        small segments of the length of the expressway after three years of operation as a consequence of
        the frequent overloading of vehicles operating on the road. The APCD has undertaken the
        necessary measures to prevent this premature deterioration, showing a strengthened capacity to
        identify difficulties and plan for their attention.



                                                      - 11 -

    ·   The highway maintenance program contributed to stabilize the existing highway network at a
        sustainable level. The HMP covered about 500 km road sections. Based on this successful
        implementation of the HMP, APCD is now proposing a possible new operation focusing on
        highway maintenance and rehabilitation of the non-expressway network, which would be the first
        Bank-financed project focusing solely on maintenance and rehabilitation. The APCD's budget
        allocated to maintenance work was increased from RMB1.14 billion in 2001 to 1.42 billion in
        2005, a steady increase of about 5.7% per annum, representing an increasing allocation per
        kilometer from RMB17.3 million to RMB18.8 million.

    ·   The safety of road transport on National Highway G206 was improved. The results of the study on
        highway traffic accidents were instrumental in designing the traffic safety component of the
        succeeding Second Anhui Highway Project. The procedures established for identifying and
        analyzing blackspots, the criteria for selecting improvement measures, and implementation
        programming will be useful for APCD's future programs. However, efforts must be pursued in
        pedestrian and driver education and traffic enforcement, which require more coordination between
        PCD and traffic police.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The HAE was opened to traffic in October 2002. The operation and maintenance of the expressway has
been transferred to the state-owned Anhui Expressway Company Limited (AECL) and has been
successfully undertaken. The low profitability during the first three years (2002-2004) of operations of the
expressway affected the cash flow of the HAE. However, this situation is expected to change. Based on
results of the revenue forecast, after 2005 the cash flow would turn positive and HAE will not need any
external cash injection throughout the life of the project.

The HMP is part of a broader effort in improving transport conditions across the road network in the
province (including national, provincial and rural roads). Simultaneously with the expansion of the
expressway network in Anhui, APCD has steadily increased management attention to vehicle overloading
and traffic accidents and developed and implemented actions--based on the technical studies developed
under the project and ongoing under the Second Anhui Highway Project (Loan 7183-CNA)--to prevent the
premature deterioration of the network. In this respect, APCD has requested the Bank's support in the
financing of a road maintenance and rehabilitation project, which would constitute the first Bank-financed
road project in China focusing entirely on the non-expressway network.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

At the identification stage, the task team ensured that project objectives and scope were consistent with
both the Government's priorities and Bank's assistance strategy. In particular, the sector issues addressed
under the project were selected from among the priorities identified in a Bank sector strategy report, "China
Forward with One Spirit; Strategy for the Transport Sector" (April 1998).

Bank assistance in project preparation was highly satisfactory. The Bank assigned a highly qualified team
to the project with an appropriate skill mix, including experts in areas of engineering, environment,
resettlement, road safety, highway maintenance, procurement, and institutional strengthening. The


                                                     - 12 -

discussions held during the preparation of the project--the first Bank-financed transport project in the
Anhui Province--served to transfer technical knowledge to the counterpart entities, particularly the APCD.

Appraisal was also highly satisfactory. The assessment of the Government's commitment of the project
and of the implementing agencies' capacity during negotiations was on the mark. The economic analysis
indicated that it would be economically feasible to construct the HAE as proposed and to operate it as a toll
road. The main risks were identified correctly: (i) a tolled highway could divert traffic to parallel roads to a
greater extent that initially expected, resulting in underutilization of the tolled road, thus lowering the
economic benefits of its construction; and (ii) delays in timely approvals of procurement activities could
lead to delay in completion of the project on time, especially the tolling, telecommunications and monitoring
systems. Other than the above two, other risks--political pressures interfering with the timetable of
implementation affecting the quality of works or unfulfilled coordination with the traffic police that could
hamper the implementation of the traffic safety component of the project--were minimized or resolved by
the efforts of the APCD and the Provincial Government during the implementation of the project.

7.2 Supervision:

The task team leader (TTL) who prepared the project remained as a TTL together with key team members
during the project implementation and thus the continuity of staff was maintained. Bank supervision
performance during implementation was consistent and satisfactory. The task team showed responsiveness
and flexibility to confront unexpected events during the project, such as in the equipment procured under
the project in a manner that APCD could purchase the equipment that met their latest demand and needs.
An example of this situation involved the procurement of the maintenance equipment determined during the
preparation of the project (early 1998). Procurement activities for this equipment commenced in mid-2000
and the list of maintenance equipment was revised in August 2000 after conducting an inventory and
demand survey. Another fact that substantiates the positive assessment of the Bank supervision is that the
number of design changes and of variation orders was minimal and less than in other similar type of
projects in China. The involvement of the foreign supervision experts contributed to the satisfactory
performance in these matters.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The supervision team paid adequate attention to project
compliance with Bank policies on resettlement and environment. The flexibility of Bank supervision staff
helped to enrich the quality of the project by allowing the desired adjustments. In addition, the Bank
performance can also be measured by the effective exchange and transfer of ideas regarding sector reforms
and improvements, as reflected in the actions the APCD undertook--particularly in road safety and truck
overloading--as the project was implemented and in the design of the subsequent Second Anhui Highway
Project and of the preliminary proposals for a third project.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's preparation was highly satisfactory. Both the central government and the implementing
agencies were highly committed to the project from the start. Their commitment was evidenced in the effort
put into the preparation of the documentation for the design of the project and the elaboration of the Project
Appraisal Document. Recognizing the importance of sector capacity building and reforms, APCD
welcomed the incorporation of foreign technical assistance to complement the local supervision of the



                                                      - 13 -

works on the HAE and to undertake the highway safety component, as well as of a comprehensive training
program.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Both the central and the Anhui provincial government supported the project throughout its implementation.
In particular, the Anhui provincial government was very supportive in the elaboration of the traffic accident
study, as it required coordination with agencies outside of the APCD. The study team was allowed to
access the raw records on traffic accidents that are registered by the traffic police and thus it could conduct
a more accurate analysis on traffic accidents. The findings of this study were instrumental in designing the
traffic safety component of the Second Anhui Highway Project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Overall project management by the APCD was satisfactory. The implementation of the project involved
several agencies and institutions within the provincial government, including the traffic police and Financial
Bureau. Despite the very difficult coordination task, the implementing agency, PEO, with a strong
leadership from the management of APCD, was very supportive throughout the project implementation. A
sound management led a satisfactory implementation of the project components, all of them within the time
and budget allocated, being the E&M component the only exception.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall, the borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory. Both beneficiaries and the central government
showed their commitment to the project and followed through to ensure its successful implementation and
operation.

8. Lessons Learned


A. Further analysis of the in-country procedures and constraints can provide better indication about
the possible increased risks in the acquisition of certain components, such as the supply and
installation of E&M works

During the appraisal of the project, risks on delays in timely approvals of procurement activities from
relevant agencies were identified. Issuance of the bid documents commenced in March 2000, as originally
planned. Even though it was scheduled that by March 2001 contract award would have been completed,
the bid evaluation report (for the second stage bidding) was submitted to the Bank for its clearance in July
2002, which was already 14 months delay. Furthermore, at the last minute of awarding the contract
(August 2002), it was also found that the eligibility of one of the winning bidders was questionable,
receiving a complaint from the second lowest bidder. To avoid further delay of installation of E&M
equipment, and thus operate the expressway without proper operational and safety facilities, APCD decided
to locally finance the E&M equipment and quickly complete its installation. The implementing agency
learned that securing timely clearance from relevant provincial and central agencies was far beyond their
control and it was extremely difficult to maintain the work schedule. Based on this experience, under the
follow-up Second Anhui Highway Project, APCD decided to finance the E&M component with local funds
even though they cannot enjoy the tax-free import of equipment, which could be applicable under the
Bank-financed project.




                                                     - 14 -

This experience shows that depending on the country conditions and circumstances, the inclusion of certain
components for Bank financing may lead to delays in project implementation. A balance must be struck
between the incentives necessary for the adequate implementation of those components and the need for the
application of Bank procurement procedures. In some cases, as it happened in the project and has been
designed for the Second Anhui Highway Project, specific components can be part of the project but not
subject to Bank financing, allowing the use of country systems that may appear reasonable in terms of
economy and efficiency though may not be fully compatible with Bank procedures. It must be made certain
however that the incentives are strong enough to ensure the timely procurement and implementation of
those not-Bank-financed components as part of the overall schedule of project execution, lest they would
prevent for the adequate complete termination of the project.

B. Complementing investment in high-class roads with lower-class roads provides a better mix to
achieve broader benefits and promotion of road sector initiatives

The Bank road portfolio in China has emphasized investments for the development of high-class roads and
expressways as the government has dictated the need to link loan to projects that generate revenues (such as
the tolls from the use of expressways). In Anhui, at the early stage of preparation of the project, APCD
was reluctant to borrow funds to finance the rehabilitation of lower-class provincial roads. However,
APCD later acknowledged the need to upkeep the existing highway network properly. As the economic
activity in the province picked up since the mid-1990s, and traffic volumes increased substantially and axle
loads became higher, deterioration of the existing highway network became a serious issue in the province.
As a matter of fact, when it could be ascertain that the unallocated category of the loan was not going to be
needed, APCD took the initiative of requesting the use of those funds to complement the component related
to the upkeep of the lower-class provincial roads (the so-called Highway Maintenance Program). Based on
the successful implementation of this program and urgent need for attention to the increasingly used road
network, the APCD has requested the Bank to finance a new highway project focusing exclusively on the
maintenance and rehabilitation of the provincial and lower-class roads. Beyond the need to keep the road
assets in good condition, the benefits of this approach are now being realized through a more harmonious
and comprehensive overall transport investment program and a better interconnection across counties
within a province. These benefits also impinge on a more efficient use of the expressways as other roads
served as feeders to the expressways, though, as also shown in this project, the toll rate differentials
(between expressways and other parallel roads) can ultimately affect the level of demand on the
expressways, possibly reducing the overall economic benefits of the investments.

C. Further efforts need to be undertaken to overcome institutional barriers and achieve better
coordination across entities involved in road transport matters (such as traffic accidents)


Quite often in China suggestions about the inclusion of reform- or policy-related issues within a project
encounter the response that they cannot be carried out because their implementation falls outside the realm
of the implementing institution. This is the case not only of issues related particularly to road safety, but
also others such as sector financing, competition across transport modes, or HIV/AIDS.

In the Anhui Highway Project, this situation was present in the elaboration of the study on traffic accidents.
In order to undertake the study, a Study/Research team with participation of Anhui Provincial Traffic
Police was established by APCD. This establishment of the team was a key to address the traffic safety
issues and enhance the traffic safety in Anhui, and required the strong support from the higher levels of the
Anhui Provincial Government. The Study/Research team was a very efficient tool for the foreign expert
team to collect traffic accident data and undertake the analysis. Successful implementation of the traffic
accidents study proved that once the management of the provincial government was convinced of its merits,


                                                     - 15 -

the coordination with the traffic police was possible and the traffic safety issue could be more efficiently
tackled.

There is not single recipe for achieving such coordination or others for other issues, and the possibilities
may vary a lot depending on the political environment and institutional framework. Nonetheless, this is an
issue that requires steady dialogue at the central level to ensure that as the sector issues move increasingly
away from investment into management and policy, they can be adequately designed and tackled.

D. Loan allocations for contingencies must receive a different treatment than other unused funds

In projects that include costly components with relatively high implementation risks, the amount of
resources allocated for contingencies tends to be large. The related loan amounts--if also large--represent
resources upon which the borrower must pay commitment fees and that remain largely unused until greater
certainty is reached in the estimation of the final costs of the project. This situation requires a different
treatment of these amounts and a clear understanding that when the project is rather advanced, flexibility
must be provided to allow for the quick approval of the reallocation of funds from the unallocated category
to other categories. The approval should be based upon the presentation of the relevant proposal and
satisfactory assessment of the eligibility of this proposal within the conceptual and implementation
framework of the project and in compliance with the provision of the loan and project agreements. To
avoid the payment of higher commitment fees, the tendency in more recent projects has been to reduce--or
even eliminate--the percentage of Bank financing for the contingent unallocated category. However, this
mechanism implies the strong commitment and sufficient fiscal strength of the counterpart entity to avoid
protracted processes for the ultimate completion of those contracts that might require additional funds in
accordance with its technical characteristics and contractual terms.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

A. General

1.       This report summarizes the implementation experience of the Anhui Provincial Highway Project
partly financed by an IBRD Loan.

B. Project Description

2.       Project objectives are to:

    a. Relieve traffic congestion and improve the mobility and integration of inter-provincial trade,
         commerce and tourism between the low-income province of Anhui and the coastal regions with its
         large potential markets;

    b. Improve and rehabilitate the existing national and provincial highway network;

    c. Improve the safety of road transport; and

    d. Strengthen the institutional capacity of Anhui Provincial Communications Department and its
         related sector institutions, through provision of training, technical assistance and equipment, in
         planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of Anhui's highway network.




                                                      - 16 -

3.     The scope of the project includes:

   a. Construction of a 152 km four-lane expressway between Hefei and Anqing;

   b. Road maintenance (improvement or rehabilitation of existing national and provincial highways);

   c. Highway safety program; and

   d. Promote development of institutional capacities of APCD, through training and other means
       (technical studies, provision of equipment, and training).

C. Achievement of the objectives:

4.     The project has attained all major objectives through successful implementation of the project
components:

   a. A 152 km-length HAE was satisfactorily completed. The traffic volume and toll income have much
       exceeded the estimate after completion, which resulted in alleviating the traffic conditions on G206,
       enhancing traffic flow capacity and decreasing the traffic accidents. The freights being transported
       to the coastal areas have been increasingly grown in value, from 26.34 million/year in 1998 to
       60.04 million/year in 2004, which have been stimulate the development of trade, economy and
       tourism between Anhui and the coastal regions. Thus, the project has basically reached expected
       targets. Its implementation made it available to gain and learn the international common practices
       in management of highway construction and the advanced experiences from the developed
       countries, which promoted our management level on highway construction projects.

   b. Upgrading and improving of roads under the MHP totaling 495 km has been satisfactorily
       completed, which increased the traffic flow capacity on trunk highways in our province. The
       infrastructure in the poor area appears to be obviously improved and the local economy has been
       greatly driven along the alignments; the social and economic benefits were enhanced.

   c. The international construction supervision services totaled 143 person/months for the HAE and the
       domestic supervision service totaled 7,560 person/months. By jointly working with foreign experts,
       local engineers' awareness of construction quality was enhanced.

   d. Environmental monitoring was undertaken 100 times in total during the construction period since
       October 2002, and 11 times during operation period. The assessment of environmental aspects has
       been rated the project satisfactory.

   e. The implementation of subprojects under the highway safety program has been satisfactorily
       completed. The outcome of the subproject through collection of basic data on traffic accidents,
       analysis and improvement of the blackspots contributed greatly to reducing the traffic accidents on
       the upgraded and newly constructed roads in Anhui.

   f.  A total of 19 overseas training and study tours courses totaling 108.1 person/months were
       implemented. Through overseas study/training, the local managerial and technical staff gained
       experience in expressway planning, design, project management, road safety, construction
       supervision, financing audit, financing, operation and maintenance management.




                                                   - 17 -

    g. The procurement of equipment for central laboratory and highway operation and maintenance for
        the related agencies was successfully completed. With this equipment, the mechanized maintenance
        of the expressways has been improved in Anhui and the capacity of checking and testing was
        enhanced.

    h. The study of toll highway in planning, financing and operation was completed in March 2003. The
        results of this research would play an important and active role in improving planning and
        operation of toll highways, widening financing channels and their management system.

D. Project formulation and preparation

5.      The Project Proposal was submitted to MOC and the State Planning Commission by Anhui
Provincial Planning Commission and APCD on February 2, 1996, and was approved by them respectively
on June 17, 1996 and July 29, 1997.

6.      Starting with the Bank's identification mission in April 1997, the World Bank was involved in the
preparation of the project. During September - December 1997, the World Bank preparation mission
reviewed the feasibility report, environmental evaluation report, etc.

7.      In September 1998, the Bank's appraisal mission reviewed and discussed the additional documents
provided including reports on training program, procurement of equipment, land acquisition and
resettlement, environment, construction supervision plan and division of civil works contracts. Experts
funded by the Japan Trust Fund were invited to review the designs and bidding documents.

8.      In October 1998, the loan was negotiated in Washington. The Loan Agreement and the Project
Agreement for Anhui Provincial Highway Project for US$200 Million was signed on March 11, 1999.

E. Project Implementation

9.      The loan became effective on May 28, 1999, and the experience gained during the implementation
of the project is summarized below by components.

10.     The construction of HAE with a total length of 152 km was implemented with 15 civil works
contracts through international competitive bidding (ICB) procurement. The project commenced in
December 1998, and was completed in October 2002. During the construction, the employer paid much
attention to important nodes and quality control. The employer, together with the designer and foreign and
local engineers carried out construction supervision and approved variation orders, such as, the
replacement of the back-fillers to the structures from plain soil to permeable materials or limed soil
avoiding jumping at the top; 80 cm-thickness lime soil was cancelled at the sand stone areas and replaced
with 20 cm-length low-ratio cement soil so as to avoid bad inherence between sand stone and lime soil; and
tamping roller was utilized for compaction at some sections to stabilize the treated soft sub-grade
protecting from uneven settlement of embankment ensuring of engineering quality.




                                                     - 18 -

11.      Highway Maintenance Program (HMP). Improvement and upgrading of the national and
provincial highways totaling 238 km with 6 road sections was divided into 10 contract sections with two
batches for implementation. The first batch consisting of 8 contracts commenced in June 1999 and was
completed in August 2000; the second batch totaling 2 contracts started in December 2000 and was
completed in August 2001. The additional maintenance program, which was financed by the loan savings,
comprised 4 road sections with total length of 257 km, was divided into 12 contracts for their
implementation. They commenced in March 2003 and were completed in November 2004.

12.      Equipment procurement. Procurement of equipment with World Bank's financing funds was
implemented in three stages: the first stage started in November 1999 and was completed in July 2000 with
total costs of US$1.11 million. The second stage began in July 2002 and was completed in May 2003 with
a total cost of US$2.42 million. The third commenced in May 2004 and ended in May 2005 with a total
cost of US$4.25 million. The cost for procurement totaled US$7.78 million. The equipment procured was
for high-grade highways quality control and operation and maintenance. In addition, between October 2002
and October 2003, some equipment for highway maintenance and operation was procured with the local
counterpart funds by APCD with a total cost of US$920,000.

13.      E&M work. Upon approval by the Bank, APCD decided that E&M works of the project were
locally financed due to delay of procurement process so as to expedite the E&M facilities along the
completed expressway. All E&M works completed in August 2003.

14.      Construction supervision. Australian Snowy Mountain Engineering Consultants provided a total
of 143 person/months input for construction supervision, including 4 person/months of training service.

15.      Staff training. APCD and MOC conducted a total 108.1 person/months of overseas training and
study tours with total cost of US$ 940,000, including 14.5 person-months of overseas study tours with the
cost of US$150,000 and 93.6 person/month of overseas training with the cost of US$ 790,000. The
training subjects involved project management, construction supervision, traffic engineering, environment
and monitoring, highway planning, high-grade highway maintenance and management, highway financing
management, traffic safety etc. APCD also organized 993 person/months of domestic training during the
project implementation. The training enriched staff with modern management knowledge on design,
construction, operation and maintenance.

16.      Environment monitoring and training. Environmental protection was a key aspect of the project
implementation. The project involved 9 person/months overseas training. Anhui Provincial Environmental
Monitoring Center was entrusted to conduct environmental monitoring for the project.

17.      Land acquisition and resettlement. Land acquisition and resettlement were completed were
completed satisfactorily. In accordance with the RAP, the external monitoring was executed by
Communications Subsidiary School of Anhui University. The RAP was followed as planned, and the living
standards and income of the people affected were both improved and increased. Under HAE, a total of
16,387 mu land was acquired, affecting directly 2,514 households covering 9,546 people, in which 775
households were removed and 2,787 people was resettled. A total of 27 enterprises were affected, in which
15 were removed. The total compensation for land acquisition and resettlement reached 225.792 million
Yuan, a 4.794 million increase compared with the originally estimated 220,998 million in RAP, with an
increase of 2.2%.




                                                      - 19 -

F. Operation of the project

18.      Although the traffic volume on HAE was not as high as expected, its operation is generally
satisfactory. The congestion on the existing G206 was relieved and traffic accidents reduced. HAE was
opened to traffic in October 2002. The annual average daily traffic (AADT) in 2003 was 8,878 medium
truck equivalent (MTE), and 8,883 MTE in 2004 and is estimated to be 10,970 MTE in 2005. The toll
revenue in 2003 was 258.52 million Yuan, while that of 2004 reached 362.83 million Yuan.

19.      HMP. The pavement of various sub-projects was widened and improved in quality, which boosted
the traffic flow capacity through upgrading and the driving speed went up on these newly improved roads.
The infrastructure was improved at the poor places passing by, which enhanced local economic
development as well as economic and social benefits.

G. Works by contractors and consultants

20.      Civil works. The civil works of HAE was divided into 15 contracts and procured through ICB
procedures. Contractors implemented the construction according to the contracts, conditions, specifications
and designs/drawings. Their works were in general satisfactory. Through great efforts of the employer, the
engineer and the contractors, all components of the Project were completed and opened to traffic on due
date, with good quality, meeting requirements in the specifications and the contract agreement.
Construction quality of all the components (HAE and HMP) has passed the examination and inspection by
the related government agencies.

21.      Consulting supervision by consultants. The international consultant firm, Australian Snowy
Mountain Engineering Consultants, fielded 5 consultants with 143 person/months for construction
supervision with total actual expenditure of US$2.884 million (planned with 174 person/months and
contracted expenditure of 3.476 million). The consultants together with local engineers paid frequent site
visits to ensure the work quality and progress of the project. They also reviewed payment orders and
variation orders and prepared supervision reports. The firm also carried out domestic training for 82 local
engineers and overseas training for 20 local engineers.
Local supervision teams were recruited through NCB with sound qualities and good reputation. About 220
local supervision engineers were involved in construction supervision services for HAE. All these
supervision engineers carried out all-round management and control for quality, progress, measurement,
and payment based on the FIDIC conditions.

H. Works by implementation agency

22.      Taking into account the complexity of the project and the number of sub-projects involved, APCD
formally formed the Project Execution Office financed by the World Bank under APCD (hereinafter called
PEO) in March 1997. PEO consisted of several departments such as engineering and technology,
environment protection, financing and accounting, IST, equipment procurement, land acquisition and
resettlement, road safety, and comprehensive management, was responsible for bidding, examination of
major variations and claims, land acquisition and resettlement, payment according to the chief supervision
engineer's measurement, reporting to the Bank and monitoring. Designs of all highways under the project
were made by Anhui Highway Survey and Design Institute. During the construction phase, representatives
of the design institute were fielded to be responsible for clarification of drawing and variations.

23.      Environment Impact Assessment (EIA). EIA was conducted for HAE by Research Institute of
Highway, MOC, and Hefei Design Institute, Ministry of Coal was entrusted to carry out EIA for the


                                                     - 20 -

sub-projects (HMP) according to the state environment assessment regulations and environment protection
method. These regulations and methods required that environment protection be implemented through
design, construction and operation phases. In June 1998, the PEO submitted the proposed Environment
Impact Assessment Reports and the Environment Action Plan (EAP) for HAE to the Bank and acquired its
confirmation. The EIA and EAP for HMP under the Project were submitted to the Bank in June 1998 and
cleared by the Bank. The employer paid much attention to environment protection at the design phase, in
the aspects of alignment selection, road crossing, bridges and culverts, drainage, slope protection and
greening work. At the construction phase, contractors were requested to properly manage environmental
protection, particularly on waste yard, drainage works, planting, and greening work.

I. Main factors affecting the project

24.      Unfavorable weather conditions. The earthwork construction of HAE was seriously affected by
the long rainy period in 1999.

25.      Weak subgrade (soft base). Treatment of soft base lasted long. The soft base was lack of suitable
soil source for filling and the material needed to be hauled from long distance, particularly at the section
between Fenglehe Bridge and Hangbuhe Bridge.

J. Works by the Bank

26.      Preparation of the project. From April 1997 to September 1999, the Bank dispatched four field
missions to Anhui to assist in preparing the proposed project. In December 1998, the Bank approved the
project. The appraisal report analyzed the background information and supported the proposed scope of the
project. The Bank reviewed the RAP and EAP, designs and bidding document, procurement plans and a
training program.

27.      Project Implementation. After the loan agreement became effective in May 1999, the Bank
dispatched two missions a year to supervise the project and monitored the progress on both the main project
and various sub-projects. The missions were generally satisfied with the performance of APCD.

28.      Cooperation between the implementing agency and the Bank.
Cooperation between the implementing agency and the Bank was well done. The Bank provided with
necessary assistance during construction phase and helped the Employer deal with the variation orders
raised, and agreed with the employer to reallocate the loan savings at the additional road sections under
HMP. Under the guidance of bank staff from the Bank Headquarters and its Beijjng Office, the project was
completed satisfactory to the Bank.

K. Planning

29.      At present, the Chinese Government is implementing the Central Development Strategy to expedite
the development of the mid parts of the country. One of the most significant tasks is to expedite the
construction of infrastructure, especially highway transportation. Under close guidance of Anhui Provincial
Government, APCD has developed a master plan to expand the highway network in the province forming
expressways and Class I Highways as framework, national and provincial highways as trunk passage,
branch highways and rural roads as traffic base. By 2010, the highway mileage of the province shall reach
75,000 km, in which expressways shall be 3,500 km; the Class II highways shall be 12,000 km. With the
completion of the provincial highway network, the expressway network will be formed to link the capital
city--Hefei with all 16 municipal cities and surrounding provinces and regions. The national expressway


                                                     - 21 -

network will complete to form passages at longitude with 6 hours and transverse with 3 hours in the
province.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                  - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



 Attainment of Project                                                                                                         Actual/Latest
        Objectives                             Monitoring Indicators                      Estimate at appraisal                  Estimate
Provide more efficient,                                                                      (2006 benchmark)                As of June 2005
safer and productive          ADT on HAE (veh/day)
transport services                Hefei-Susan Line                                                           14,850                          13,402
                                  Susan Line-Mayan                                                             9,950                         11,817
                                  Mayan-Gezidun                                                              10,490                          10,702
                                  Gezidun-Wuheng                                                               8,930                            3,727
                                  Wuheng-Zongpu                                                              13,290                             3,727
                              ADT on Existing N.R. 206 (veh/day)
                                  Hefei-Susan Line                                                             7,820                            9,265
                                  Susan Line-Mayan                                                             4,100                            4,433
                                  Mayan-Gezidun                                                                5,230                            4,349
                                  Gezidun-Wuheng                                                               5,360                            6,013
                                  Wuheng-Zongpu                                                                7,970                         17,330
                              ADT Speed on Existing N.R. 206 (km/hr)
                                  Hefei-Susan Line                                                                 62                              53
                                  Susan Line-Mayan                                                                 39                              42
                                  Mayan-Gezidun                                                                    37                              40
                                  Gezidun-Wuheng                                                                   37                              38
                                  Wuheng-Zongpu                                                                    62                              47
                              Accident rates on existing N.R. 206 (number of
                              accidents per 100 million vehicles)
                                  Hefei-Susan Line                                                              60.1                             40.6
                                  Susan Line-Mayan                                                             161.2                             68.9
                                  Mayan-Gezidun                                                                168.2                             66.7
                                  Gezidun-Wuheng                                                               169.9                             65.4
                                  Wuheng-Zongpu                                                                 60.5                             40.1
                              ADT on highways included in HMP (veh/day)
                                  S203 Luan                                                                    4,100                            4,620
                                  S202 Shouxian                                                                3,850                            4,013
                                  G105 Nanzhau                                                                 2,760                            3,857
                                  S316 Chaolu                                                                  3,570                            3,730
                                  S202 Xiaohuai                                                                5,520                            6,210
                                  S315 Yangtao                                                                 2,310                            3,117
                              ADT on additional highways in HMP (veh/day) *
                                  Luan-Shucheng Sanhe                                                          3,121                            4,097
                                  G318 Huaning Section                                                         3,309                            4,434
                                  S328 Nanzhao-Funan-Yangqiao                                                  1,029                            1,217
                                  S319 Wuwei-Huanggu                                                           2,013                            2,852
                              Value of goods transported to coastal provinces
                              (million yuan/yr)                                                                5,713                            6,545

                              Institutional capacity strengthened: training                                    1,119                            1,101
                              programs (person-months)

* These roads were identified during project implementation. The baseline values correspond to those estimated at the time of identification of those
additional segments.




                                                                   - 23 -

Output Indicators:
              Indicator/Matrix           Projected in last PSR
                                                             1    Actual/Latest Estimate

1. HAEcompleted                           August 2002 (100%)
                                                                           October 2002 (100%)

2. Five original roads under HMP         February 2002 (100%)               August 2001 (100%)

  completed
 Additional 4 roads completed             June 2004 (100%)                November 2004 (100%)
3. Black spots program completed         December 2001 (100%)             December 2001 (100%)

4. Planned training program completed    December 2003 (100%)                May 2005 (100%)




1End of project




                                              - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                   Appraisal   Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                    Estimate    Estimate     Appraisal
                    Component                     US$ million   US$ million
Works
HAE
Civil Works                                            243.7       302.2          124.5
Supply and Installation of E&M                          15.0         10.4          69.3
Buildings                                                4.8         12.4         258.3
Highway Maintenance                                     50.5       108.1          214.1
Highway Safety (Black spots)                             2.8          2.7          97.9
                                 Subtotal              316.8       435.8          137.6
Supervision of Construction                              9.2         11.1         120.7
Equipment                                                9.2          8.8          95.7
Training/Technical Assistance                            2.2          1.8          81.8
Studies
Highway traffic accidents                                0.3         0.14          46.7
Planning, financing and operation of highways            0.2         0.05          25.0
                                 Subtotal                0.5          0.2          40.0
Fee (Front-end)                                          2.0          2.0         100.0
Contingencies/Unallocated                               87.4         19.8          22.6
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                       26.6         27.2         102.3
                Total Project Costs                    453.9       506.7          111.6
  Note: Project Costs (w/o contingencies)              366.5       486.9




                                              - 25 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                         Procurement Method

            Project Cost
                                                 ICB                NCB           Other1          NBF2   Total Cost (including
                                                                                                           Contingencies)

Hefei-Anqing Expressway
 Civil Works                                   306.90                                                          306.9
                                               (138.40)                                                        (138.4)
 Supply and Installment(E&M)                     19.1                                                           19.1
                                                (15.2)                                                         (15.2)
 Buildings                                                           6.1                                        6.1

                                                                   (1.80)                                       (1.8)

Highway Maintenance                                                 64.1                                        64.1

                                                                   (25.70)                                     (25.7)
Highway Safety (Black Spots)                                         3.6                                        3.6
                                                                   (1.80)                                       (1.8)
Equipment                                          8.7                               2.1                        10.8
                                                (8.70)                             (0.40)                       (9.1)
Supervision of Construction3                                                        11.6                        11.6
                                                                                   (4.30)                       (4.3)
Training                                                                             2.6                        2.6
                                                                                   (1.40)                       (1.4)
Studies                                                                              0.5                        0.5
                                                                                   (0.30)                       (0.3)
 a)Highway traffic accidents                                                        0.30                        0.3
                                                                                   (0.10)                       (0.1)
 b)Planning finance and operation
                                                                                    0.20                        0.2
of toll highways
                                                                                   (0.20)                       (0.2)
Fee                                                                                 2.0                         2.0
                                                                                    (2.0)                       (2.0)

Land Acquisition and Resettlement                                                                  26.6         26.6


Total                                           334.7               73.8            18.8           26.6        453.9
                                                (162.3)            (29.3)           (8.4)          0.0         (200.0)
1Other includes negotiated contract, international shoppping, consultants, training and front-end fee.
2NBF=Not Bank-financed.
3Selection of Consultants according to the Bank's guidelines for Use of Consultants.
Notes:Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.




                                                           - 26 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


                                                                                Procurement Method
              Project Cost
                                                    ICB              NCB             Other1           NBF2         Total Cost

Hefei-Anqing Expressway
 Civil Works                                       302.2                                                             302.2
                                                   (120.0)                                                           (120.0)
 Supply and Installment(E&M)                                                                          10.4            10.4
                                                                                                                       0.0
 Buildings                                                           12.4                                             12.4

                                                                     (2.4)                                            (2.4)

Highway Maintenance                                                 108.1                                            108.1

                                                                    (34.8)                                            (34.8)

Highway Safety(Black Spots)                                                                           2.7              2.7

                                                                                                      0.0              0.0

Equipment                                           6.8                                1.1            0.9              8.8
                                                    (6.7)                              (1.1)                          (7.8)
Supervision of Construction3                                                           11.1                           11.1
                                                                                       (2.9)                          (2.9)
Training                                                                               1.8                             1.8
                                                                                       (0.6)                          (0.6)
Studies                                                                                0.2                             0.2
                                                                                       (0.1)                          (0.10)

 a)Highway traffic accidents                                                           0.14                           0.14

                                                                                      (0.09)                          (0.09)

 b)Planning finance and operation of toll
                                                                                       0.05                           0.05
highways
                                                                                      (0.04)                          (0.04)
Fee                                                                                    2.0                             2.0

                                                                                       (2.0)                          (2.0)

Land Acquisition and Resettlement                                                                     27.2            27.2
                                                                                                                       0.0
Total                                              309.0            123.2              16.2           41.2           486.9
                                                   (126.7)          (37.2)             (6.7)          0.0            (170.6)
1Other includes negotiated contract, internationa shoppping, consultants, training and front-end fee.
2NBF=Not Bank-financed.
3Selection of Consultants according to the Bank's guidelines for Use of Consultants.
Note: The figures do not include the amount of US$9.6 million cancelled under the Supply and Installation of E&M Equipment




                                                            - 27 -

                        Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                           Aprraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate        Percentage of Appraisal
    Project Cost               Central                         Central                       Central     World
                      Anhui  Government   World Bank Anhui  Government    World Bank Anhui  Government    Bank
Hefei-Anqing
Expressway

Civil Works           50.1      76.9        116.7   106.5      75.7        120.0    212.6     98.4      102.8

Supply and
                      3.0                   12.0     10.4                   0.0     346.7                 0.0
Installation (E&M)

Buildings             3.4                    1.4     10.0                   2.4     294.1               171.7

Highway
                      30.3                   20.2    73.3                  34.8     241.9               172.1
Maintenance

Highway Safety        1.4                    1.4     2.7                            195.7                 0.0

  Subtotal            88.2      76.9        151.7   202.9      75.7        157.2    230.1     98.4      103.6



Supervision           5.8                    3.4     8.2                    2.9     141.4                85.3

Equipment             1.4                    7.8     1.0                    7.8      71.4                99.8

Training              1.0                    1.2     1.2                    0.6     120.0                50.0

Studies               0.2                    0.3     0.06                  0.13      30.0                43.3

a)Highway traffic
                      0.2                    0.1     0.05                  0.09     25.00               90.00
accidents
b)Planning finance
and operation of toll 0.0                    0.2     0.01                  0.04                         20.00
highways

Fee                                          2.0                            2.0                         100.0

Contingencies/
                      53.8                  33.6
unallocated

Land Acquisition
                      26.6                           27.2                           102.3
and Resettlement


Total                 177.0     76.9        200.0   240.6      75.7        170.6    135.9     98.4       85.3



Percent of Total      39.0      16.9        44.1     49.0      15.0        36.0




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Preface

1.      The economic evaluation of the project covers the following two components:

    (a) Construction of an expressway connecting Hefei and Anqing (HAE); and

    (b) Improvement and rehabilitation of existing roads under the Highway Maintenance Program (HMP)
        in Anhui province.

2.      The economic analysis is based on the re-evaluation of data on traffic, operational performance,
costs and benefits of project components. The methodology used was similar to that employed by the PAD
and is summarized as follows:

    (a) capital investment and maintenance costs were revised to reflect December 2005 prices and are
        included in the cost stream;

    (b) the benefits stream, also reflected in December 2005 prices, were included, and consist of savings
        in vehicle operating costs, travel time savings, reduced traffic congestion on existing roads, and
        enhanced road safety; and

    (c) a project life of 20 years has been assumed and the capital investment period for all components
        was from 1999 to 2005, depending on the road being constructed.

3.      During the project's implementation, approved by the Bank, some project components have been
modified. The economic analysis reflects the final implementation of the project.

4.      The annex is comprised of four parts. Part I is the economic evaluations of HAE. Part II is the
economic evaluations of HMP. Part III is the overall economic evaluation of the project, including the
probabilistic risk analysis, and Part IV is the financial evaluation of the project.

                           PART I: ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF HAE

5.      As shown in the PAD, the HAE consists of five sections for economic evaluation.

                                        Length (km) of      Length (km)            Opening Date
                                         the Old Road        of the HAE
     1.     Hefei ­ Susanline                  46                 34               October 2002
     2.     Susanline - Mayan                  27                 27               October 2002
     3.     Mayan ­ Gezidun                    62                 65               October 2002
     4.     Gezidun - Wuheng                   22                 16               October 2002
     5.     Wuheng - Anqing                     9                 10               October 2002
                     Total                    166                 152




                                                     - 29 -

Traffic

6.      The HAE was opened to traffic in October 2002. The traffic on the five sections for 2003 - 2004
and its distribution between the existing and the new roads are shown in the Table 1, including the PAD
forecast and actual traffic count data.

7.      In Table 1, the 2003 total traffic demand of the corridor (the total of traffic on the existing arterial
roads and the new expressway), except for the Gezidun - Wuheng section which was only about 75 percent
of the PAD' estimate, was very close to or higher than the PAD's forecast, ranging from 96 percent to 115
percent. The same pattern remained for 2004. In most sections, traffic on the existing road was higher
than expected. Compared to estimates in the PAD, the traffic on the HAE was less than expected for 2003,
but much improved for 2004.

8.      In 2003, the average traffic diversion rate from the existing road to the new highway was 45.4
percent, ranging from 15 percent to 68 percent, compared with about 64 percent forecasted in the PAD. In
2004 (the latest data), the average diversion ratio has improved to about 50.7 percent. The increasing trend
of the diversion ratio clearly reveals that more and more road users on the corridor choose the new road as
a preferred traveling route.

Traffic Projection

9.      Based on the actual traffic counts, it is recognized that the buildup of traffic on a new expressway,
particularly when it is operated as a toll facility, is gradual in the early years and then the diversion
accelerates. During 2003 - 2005 (the current best estimates), the average traffic growth rate on the HAE is
estimated to be 18.0 percent. Despite the increasing traffic diversion ratio and a higher traffic growth rate,
the long term traffic growth rate on the new highway is estimated to be lower than the PAD's forecast
because HAE will face the possible competition among other expressways. The traffic forecast for HAE is
summarized as follows:

                        TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON FOR NEW HIGHWAY(AADT)
                                                 PAD               ICR               ICR/PAD

        2003                                     8,561             6,234                72.8%
        2004                                     9,191             8,165                88.8%
        2005                                     9,868             8,675                87.9%
        2015                                    17,493            11,969                68.4%
        2025                                    27,052            13,695                50.6%
        Average growth p.a.
        2004-2025                                5.3%              2.5%                   --

          Sources: APCD and the Bank staff.


10.     Actual traffic data were used for 2003 - 2004, and the best estimate data for 2005. For subsequent
years, the following growth rates were assumed:

        (a)    The normal traffic growth rates for the new highway were estimated to be within a range of 3
               to 4 percent during 2005 - 2015, depending on the type of vehicle and road. The growth
               rates during 2015 ­ 2025 were assumed to be in the range of 1 to 2 percent; and




                                                        - 30 -

        (b)    It was assumed that there would be no generated traffic.

Economic Costs

11.     Financial construction costs were converted to economic costs by applying shadow prices for each
of the input items. The total economic cost of HAE at the ICR stage, in constant December 2005 prices,
was 17.7 percent higher than the PAD's estimate.

                                     Economic Cost Comparison (million Yuan)
                                                PAD /1               ICR      ICR/ PAD
                           HAE                   2,941.59            3,461.30  17.7%
                    /_1. 1998 prices have been updatedto 2005 prices.



Economic Benefits

12.     Project benefits were estimated by using the VOC equation which was developed in the Highway
Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-III). The economic analysis includes the benefits derived
from: (a) VOC savings on the new highway (summarized as below), (b) time savings through relieved
congestion on the existing road, and (c) lower accident costs. The VOC savings contains the net VOC
savings for the vehicles using the new highway. The time savings contain the benefits resulting from the
lower level of congestion on the existing roads. The value of passenger time savings was estimated at 1.5
Yuan per passenger-hour, on the basis of updated values in a report on feasibility study methodology for
highways in China (Rust PPK. Australia Feasibility Study Methodology Report, March 1996). The same
source was used for vehicle accident rates on different classes of road.




                                                           - 31 -

                               Economic Vehicle Operating Costs
                             (Yuan per km, December 2005 prices)
                                          New Expressway          Existing Road
         Car                                     0.801                0.977
         Medium bus                              1.389                1.883
         Large bus                               3.032                3.989
         Small truck                             1.427                1.607
         Medium truck                            1.995                2.331
         Large truck                             2.615                3.065
         Tractor/trailer                         3.749                4.310

                     Example of Economic Vehicle Operating Cost Calculation
                          (Yuan per 1,000 veh.-km December 2005 prices)
                                          Medium Large      Small Medium Large     Trailer/
                                     Car      bus      bus  Truck  truck   truck container
     New Expressway:
     Fuel                             329         445  1,026   659      787   855        958
     Tires                             59          94    182    94      299   620      1,150
     Maintenance                      327         443    969   593      776   887        969
     Crew                              22          22     22    22       22    22         22
     Depreciation                      19          85    233    59      111   231        650
               Subtotal               756      1,089   2,432 1,427   1,995 2,615       3,749
     Time value of passengers          45         300    600
                Total                801      1,389    3,032 1,427   1,995 2,615      3,749
     Existing Roads:
     Fuel                             403         547  1,197   732      958 1,094      1,197
     Tires                             63         101    208   101      338   680      1,265
     Maintenance                      363         492  1,077   659      862   985      1,077
     Crew                              45          49     49    49       49    49         49
     Depreciation                      21          94    258    66      124   257        722
        Subtotal                      895      1,283   2,789 1,607   2,331 3,065       4,310
     Time value of passengers          82         600  1,200
                Total                977      1,883    3,989 1,607   2,331 3,065      4,310
                 Sources: APCD and the Bank staff.



Economic Evaluation

13.      Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of the expressway is estimated to be 22.2 percent, which
is lower than the 25.6 percent estimated in the PAD. The lower EIRR is primarily due to: (a) much lower
traffic demand (par.7), and (b) cost overrun (par. 11). EIRRs and Net Present Values (NPV) are
summarized as follows:




                                                     - 32 -

                                      EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, Y million)
                                                       PAD                     ICR
                                               EIRR       NPV /1        EIRR        NPV
                1. Hefei - Susanline           30.4       1,879.2        28.6     1,717.5
                2. Susanline - Mayan           20.1          366.9       24.9       942.7
                3. Mayan - Gezidun             25.2       1,389.0        20.2     1,252.8
                4. Gezidun - Wuheng            26.4          371.1        8.1      (107.4)
                5. Wuheng - Anqing             15.4           57.1       18.0        151.0
                          Total                25.6       4,063.2        22.2     3,956.7
                   /_1: 1998 prices were updated to 2005 prices.



Sensitivity Analysis

14.      The EIRRs summarized below show that the effects of possible changes in assumptions made in
the evaluation could alter the yield on the investment. Since costs for operation and maintenance of the
HAE are relatively small in the investment, any variation in these costs would have minimum discernible
impact on EIRR. The impacts of changes in traffic volumes were analyzed under the two traffic growth
scenarios discussed in par. 15 and 16 of this Annex. The results of the sensitivity test show that the
reduction of total benefits by 15 percent has the greatest impact while the reduction of road congestion has
the least impact on the EIRR.

                                                    SENSITIVITY TEST
                                                              EIRR (in %)     NPV(12%, Y
                                                                                 million)
               VOC savings reduced by 15%                        21.7             3,722.7
               Passenger time savings reduced by                 21.6             3,680.9
               50%
               Congestion savings reduced to zero                22.0             3,956.7
               Total benefits reduced by 15%                     21.4             2,946.9



Scenario Analysis

15.      Besides the normal traffic growth scenario, two traffic growth alternatives have also been
considered: a lower traffic growth projection (25 percent lower than the normal traffic) and a higher traffic
growth projection (25 percent higher than the normal traffic growth). The traffic growth and average
annual average growth rate under these two scenarios are as follows:

                                   EXPRESSWAY TRAFFIC FORECAST SCENARIOS
                                             High Growth Rate         Low Growth Rate
               Average growth rate               1.5% ~ 7.0%            -1.5% ~ 4.0%
               pa
16.      The overall EIRRs for the different traffic growth scenarios are summarized in the following table.
It shows that the overall EIRR for a higher traffic growth rate is 24.8% and for a lower traffic growth rate
is 21.0 percent.




                                                         - 33 -

                                   TRAFFIC GROWTH RATE SCENARIO TEST
                                                                        NPV (12%, Y
                                                         EIRR (in%)        million)
              High traffic growth rate scenario             24.8            5,550.7
              Low traffic growth rate scenario              21.0            3,282.5



                         PART II: HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROGRAM (HMP)

Background and Traffic

17.      In the PAD, the HMP was designed to be implemented in one phase including 6 roads with a total
length of 238 km. During implementation, the HMP was extended to 10 roads, totaling 500 km. The
second phase included 4 roads, totaling 262 km. The HMP started in 1999 and was completed in 2004.

                                                         HMP
                                        PAD                                  ICR
                                    Road              km        km        Completion Date
            Phase1:          1. Lu'an road           40.0       40.0        August 2000
                             2. Shouxian road        40.0       40.0        August 2000
                             3. Nanzhao road         30.0       30.0       September 2001
                             4. Chaolu road          46.0       46.0        August 2000
                             5. Xiaohuai road        60.0       60.0        August 2000
                             6. Yangtao road         22.0       22.0        August 2000
                                   Subtotal         238.0      238.0
            Phase 2:         7. Lusan road             --       85.0       November 2004
                             8. Huailin road           --       32.0          April 2004
                             9. Nanyang road           --       95.0       November 2004
                            10. Wuhuang road           --       50.0       November 2004
                                   Subtotal            --      262.0
               Total                                238.0      500.0
                   Sources: PAD and APCD



18.      The main purpose of the HMP was to improve the existing roads in the poor areas of the Anhui
province. Since all the roads under HMP are located in the same region, the economic development and
traffic patterns are quite similar. Based on the traffic performance, the traffic growth rates were assumed
to be 3.0 percent per year for motor vehicles and 1.5 percent for tractors for 2004 - 2010, and to be
reduced by 1 percent for the next ten years beyond 2010. In the PAD, the vehicle traffic growth rate was
assumed to be 6 percent per year for most of the roads up to year 2000, 5 percent for 2000 ­ 2005, 4
percent for 2005 ­ 2010 and 3 percent thereafter.

Economic Costs

19.      Financial costs were been converted to economic costs using a similar methodology applied to the
HAE. All input items were evaluated to constant December 2005 economic prices. The 2005 constant
economic cost is about same as the financial cost.




                                                     - 34 -

Economic Benefits

20.    As calculated at the appraisal stage, the economic benefits of the HMP were derived mainly from:
(a) VOC savings due to shorter distance (if applicable) and (b) VOC savings due to normal traffic.

21.    The better surface pavement reduced VOC and yielded the major portion of the project benefits. It
was assumed that there is no generated traffic. In addition, the better paved roads increased vehicle speed
and reduce congestion. These benefits were quantified also as part of operating cost savings.

Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis

22.    The EIRRs of the two phases range from 16.6 percent to 39.7 percent. The overall EIRR for the
HMP is 31.4 percent, compared to 37.6 percent estimated at the appraisal stage for 6 road sections.

                                                HMP: EIRR AND NPV
                                                     EIRR (in %)        NPV (12%, Y million)
                                                   PAD        ICR        PAD /1         ICR
        Phase1:       1. Lu'an road                39.6       30.0        232.0         129.2
                      2. Shouxian road             36.8       27.1        201.5         104.3
                      3. Nanzhao road              35.0       24.7        141.9          65.2
                      4. Chaolu road               43.3       39.7        156.6         140.9
                      5. Xiaohuai road             36.8       38.3        289.2         301.4
                      6. Yangtao road              31.3       32.1         40.1          49.0
                            Subtotal               37.6       32.9        903.2         783.1
       Phase 2:       7. Lusan road                  --       33.5          --          258.8
                      8. Huailin road                --       35.4          --          108.6
                      9. Nanyang road                --       16.6          --           46.5
                      10. Wuhuang road               --       24.2          --           79.4
                            Subtotal                 --       26.6          --          493.2
                              Total                37.6       31.4        903.2        1,247.9
         /_1: 1998 prices were updated to 2005 prices.



23.     The risks considered for sensitivity analysis are: (a) slower projected growth of traffic, (b) lower
VOC savings, and (c) less expected benefits. The results of the sensitivity test show that the reduction of
VOC savings by 25% has the greatest impact while the slower projected traffic growth rate has the least
impact on the EIRR.


                                             SENSITIVITY TEST FOR HMP
                                                            EIRR (in %)    NPV(12%, Y million)
      Slower projected traffic growth rate (-25%)               31.0               1,163.0
      Lower VOC savings (-25%)                                  24.6                766.9
      Reduction of total benefit (-25%)                         24.7                 804.7




                                                       - 35 -

                 PART III: THE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT

Overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)

24.     The overall EIRR of the entire project (including HAE and HMP) is 23.5 percent and the NPV
(12%) is about Y 5.2 billion. In the PAD, the EIRR for the entire project is estimated to be 27.1 percent.

                                       EIRR (in %) and NPV (12%, Y million)
                                         PAD                             ICR
                               EIRR        NPV (12%)            EIRR      NPV (12%)
              HAE               25.6         4,063.2             22.2        3,956.7
              HMP               37.6           903.2             31.4        1,247.9
                 Total          27.1         4,966.4             23.5        5,204.6

Project Risks

25.     The EIRR of each project road, as well as the entire project, is economically justifiable. However,
the re-evaluated EIRR of the project is lower than the PAD estimates. The main reasons for the lower
EIRRs are: (a) higher capital investment and (b) less traffic demand on some sections of the road. It is
suggested that it should have had better estimates on traffic diversion rates and construction cost estimates
during the feasibility study stage.

Probabilistic Risk Analysis

26.      To determine the degree of uncertainty for the project, a probabilistic risk analysis using Monte
Carlo techniques was carried out. In a Monte Carlo analysis, each uncertainty factor is allowed to vary at
random between set limits and all uncertainty factors are allowed to change simultaneously. The Monte
Carlo simulation provides probability distributions of the potential outcomes of decisions. By analyzing
these distributions, it is possible to assess the risk associated with making various decisions (or
probabilistic risk analysis). The product of the analysis is a judgment on the possible range of the decision
variable, and on the likelihood of each value within this range.

27.      The probabilistic risk analysis was made on the entire project. The most uncertain factors
associated with the economic evaluation of the project (HAE and HMP) were identified as: (a) traffic
growth rate, and (b) the value of vehicle operating costs. The results of the probabilistic risk analysis for
the project show that the EIRR for the most likely scenario is 22.0 %. The worst case scenario of the
analysis is 15.7% and for the best case scenario, 31.7%. The standard error of the mean is 0.6 %. The
results of Monte Carlo test and probabilistic analyses (Appendix 1) are summarized as follows:

                                       Summary of Probabilistic Risk Analysis
                                                          Most likely  Standard error
                                      Range of EIRR          EIRR        of the mean
           HAE                        12.3% ~ 32.0%          21.2%          0.7%
           HMP                        30.4% ~ 31.4%          20.9%           0%
                   Total                 15.7% ~            22.0%           0.6%




                                                        - 36 -

                                   PART IV: FINANCIAL EVALUATION

Preface

28.     The financial evaluation of the project is comprised of three sections.

        ·    Section 1 assesses the revenue earning entity (HAE); focusing on the consolidated financial
             statements for HAE

        ·    Section 2 assesses the non-revenue earning entity (HMP), focusing on the financial risk
             assessment in terms of operated, maintenance and repair of the toll free roads under the HMP.

        ·    Section 3 assesses the financial capacity of APCD to sustain highway activities, focusing the
             adequacy of the fund's allocation regarding to the provincial road development plan.

        For the HAE, the financing structure consists of the Bank's loan (36 percent), local loan (27
percent) and grant capital (37 percent). The overall financial cost of capital was assumed to be 4.63
percent.

                          SECTION 1: FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF THE HAE

29.     An operating entity has been established by APCD to operate the HAE. The entity is responsible
for the day to day management, operation, maintenance, and development of the highways including the
repayment of the loan. The toll charges are strictly controlled by the provincial government. The toll
charges forecast has been assumed to be increasing once (15%) every five years (or average 2.8 percent
p.a.).

Financial Assessment

30.     Tolls: The toll is charged on the basis of vehicle size (small vehicle, medium vehicle, large vehicle
and extra large vehicle) and distance traveled. The current toll charges for the HAE are listed as follows:


                                        Toll Charges (Yuan/ Vehicle km)
                                Small     Medium        Large         Extra-
                               vehicle     vehicle      vehicle        large
                                 0.40       0.70          0.90         1.20



31.     Operations. The operating costs of the HAE can be divided into working costs (wages and
benefits, maintenance, operating materials and supplies, administration, and others) and depreciation. All
other expenses, including interest payments on the loans, are also taken into account in the calculation of
the HAE profitability.

32.     Profitability. The HAE will generate enough revenue over the project life. However, lower profits
took placed in 2002-2004. The main reason is the financial obligations of the interest payments for the
Bank and the local banks' loans which yielded the financial pressure to the HAE. In addition, because of



                                                    - 37 -

the low toll growth assumptions, the rate of return on average net fixed assets for the early years of
operation is rather low. It is expected that the income statement will be improved in 2005 due to less
financial obligations on interest payment. (Income Statement, Table 2.1).

33.       Cash flow. The low profitability during the first two-year operations of the expressway also
affected the cash flow of the HAE during 2002- 2004. This situation is expected to be changed. The cash
flow may remain positive throughout the life of the project after 2005. This is because of the large sum of
depreciation reserves. In 2005, for example, the total depreciation reserve alone (about Y 85 million) will
be higher than the total financial obligations (about Y 77.5 million), or equivalent to 88% of total working
costs in that year. The strong internal cash generation capacity will be able to provide sufficient funds to
support the operation, loan repayment, and even the major maintenance expenditure. Based on results of
the revenue forecast, after 2005, the HAE will not need any external cash injection throughout the life of
the project (Sources and Applications of Funds, Table 2.2).

34.      Leverage and Liquidity. The low profitability in the early years of operation and the high
proportion of loans (representing about 63% of total project cost) affect the financial leverage of the HAE.
Consequently, the debt/ equity ratio and debt/ capital ratio (the financial leverage of the company) will not
be sound until 2009. Due to the expected strong cash flow status, the current ratio, after 2005, will be in
the sound range of 3.5 and higher (to avoid short-term solvency problems, the current ratio should be at
least 1.0). (Balance Sheet, Table 2.3). The major assumptions for financial evaluation are shown in Table
2.4.

Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR)

35.       Based on the current financial status, the HAE may not need any external financial assistance.
However, the low profit margin produces a negative impact on the FIRR to the capital investment. The
result of the financial evaluation for the HAE shows that the FIRR for the HAE will be 0.8 percent with a
NPV (discount rate 4.63%) of Y -1,286 million.

Scenario Analysis

36.      The financial sensitivity analysis tested two scenarios: the higher traffic growth rate and the lower
traffic growth or the HAE (par. 15). The results for the different traffic growth scenarios are shown as
follows:

                                       FINANCIAL SCENARIO ANALYSIS
                                                 FIRR (in %)    NPV (Y million, 4.63%)
                 Traffic growth rate:  (+25%)        1.9                   -979
                                       (-25%)        -0.4                -1,556

Project Risks

37.      APCD completed the project on time. The field visit to Anhui confirmed that APCD can provide
quality services to the road users while maintaining the roads in good condition. Physically, the only
remaining tangible risks are the unforeseeable mixed factors (or degree of uncertainty) which will affect the
results of the financial evaluation. This will be discussed in the section of probabilistic risk analysis.




                                                     - 38 -

Probabilistic Risk Analysis (Financial Simulation)

38.      To determine the degree of financial uncertainty for the project, a probabilistic risk analysis using
Monte Carlo techniques was carried out. The three most uncertain factors which may affect the financial
evaluation were identified: (a) traffic growth rate, (c) toll charges growth rate, and (c) total working costs
growth rate. The risk analysis revealed that the most likely FIRR would be 0.8 percent, while the worst
and the best FIRR would be 0.1 percent and 1.4 percent, respectively. Details are in Appendix 2 and
results are summarized as follows:


                            Financial Sensitivity and Probabilistic Risk Analysis
                                                       Financial Simulation and Risk Analysis
                                                  Range of            Most Likely       Std. Error of
                                                FIRR / NPV            FIRR / NPV         The Mean
        FIRR (in %)                               0.1 ~ 1.4               0.8                0
        NPV (5.0%, Yuan million)               - 1,472 ~ 1,118          - 1,287             10.7



                            SECTION 2: FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF THE HMP

39.      All of the 10 roads under HMP are toll free. The financial evaluation of these
non-revenue-earning entities focuses on the APCD's capacity to minimize financial risks, i.e. the lack of
counterpart funds for the maintenance and repairing, including the future operating expenses for the project
roads and bridges.

40.      APCD's budget (actual and forecasts) shows that the maintenance and repairing expenditures for
the HMP constitute only a small fraction of APCD's fund flow. Therefore, the fiscal impact is minimal.
According to the APCD's plan, the total required maintenance expenditure of HMP is less than 1.0 percent
of the total maintenance expenditure for APCD. These low ratios indicate that the project presents a very
low financial risk regarding future operation of these roads. Details are shown in Table 3 of the Annex and
results are summarized as follows:

                                 APCD: Maintenance Expenditures (Yuan million)
                                                       2001       2002      2003     2004      2005
    Maintenance Expenditures:
      HMP Maintenance (a)                               3.61      4.25       4.36     4.46      9.74
      Total APCD Maintenance Expenditure (b)        1,140.56   1,205.13  1,273.41 1,345.60  1,421.94
      Ratios (a)/(b)                                   0.3%       0.4%      0.3%     0.3%      0.7%
          /1: Actual 2001-2004; Best estimate: 2005.


                              SECTION 3: FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF APCD

41.      APCD provided its financing plan on total revenue and expenditure for the Tenth Five Year Plan
(10th FYP, 2001 - 2005). According to the Anhui highway development plan, APCD has acquired
sufficient funds to finance yearly increases in the length of the provincial road network and has allocated
resources for the maintenance of the existing road network. In addition, a moderate self-financing ratio
(50.1 percent for the 10th FYP) will ensure the implementation of the highway development plan. The
detailed sources of highway revenues and expenditures for 2001 - 2005 are shown in Table 3 of the Annex.




                                                          - 39 -

42.     To avoid a capital squeeze effect (i.e. limited annual capital resources, focusing on emphasis only
on the new road construction and reduced maintenance on the existing roads), APCD has also given special
attention to road maintenance. With regards to the sustainability of road maintenance with the allocated
resources, the average yearly increase in maintenance expenditures during the 10th FYP (2.4 percent)
exceeded the growth of the road network (2.1 percent), which means an increase in the average
maintenance expenditure by each kilometer.


                              APCD: Average Increase in the Road Network and
                                    Road Maintenance Expenditures (in %)
                                                                            10th FYP
                                                                          (2001 - 2005)
              Average annual increase in the road network                       2.1
              Average annual increase in maintenance expenditures               2.4




                                                      - 40 -

          Table 1: NUMBER OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PER DAY (2003-2004)

                             Existing road   New road     Total      Diversion
                                  (1)            (2)   (3)= (1)+(2) (4) = (2)/(3)
2003 PAD
          Hefei - Susanline     6,406         11,039     17,445      63.3%
          Susanline - Mayan     3,359          7,431     10,790      68.9%
          Mayan - Gezidun       4,261          7,802     12,063      64.7%
          Gezidun - Wuheng      4,382          6,646     11,028      60.3%
          Wuheng - Anqing       6,519          9,889     16,408      60.3%
       ICR
          Hefei - Susanline     8,442          9,281     17,723      52.4%
          Susanline - Mayan     3,940          8,454     12,394      68.2%
          Mayan - Gezidun       3,837          7,773     11,610      67.0%
          Gezidun - Wuheng      5,417          2,832      8,249      34.3%
          Wuheng - Anqing      15,860          2,832     18,692      15.2%
       Ratios (ICR/PAD)
          Hefei - Susanline     31.8%         -15.9%      1.6%          --
          Susanline - Mayan     17.3%          13.8%     14.9%          --
          Mayan - Gezidun      -10.0%          -0.4%      -3.8%         --
          Gezidun - Wuheng      23.6%         -57.4%     -25.2%         --
          Wuheng - Anqing      143.3%         -71.4%     13.9%          --
2004 PAD
          Hefei - Susanline     6,306         12,433     18,739      66.3%
          Susanline - Mayan     3,218          8,359     11,577      72.2%
          Mayan - Gezidun       4,169          8,784     12,953      67.8%
          Gezidun - Wuheng      4,360          7,486     11,846      63.2%
          Wuheng - Anqing       6,485         11,140     17,625      63.2%
       ICR
          Hefei - Susanline     8,875         12,568     21,443      58.6%
          Susanline - Mayan     4,176         11,140     15,316      72.7%
          Mayan - Gezidun       4,086         10,089     14,175      71.2%
          Gezidun - Wuheng      5,767          3,513      9,280      37.9%
          Wuheng - Anqing      16,746          3,513     20,259      17.3%
       Ratios (ICR/PAD)
          Hefei - Susanline     40.7%           1.1%     14.4%          --
          Susanline - Mayan     29.8%          33.3%     32.3%          --
          Mayan - Gezidun       -2.0%          14.9%      9.4%          --
          Gezidun - Wuheng      32.3%         -53.1%     -21.7%         --
          Wuheng - Anqing      158.2%         -68.5%     14.9%          --


Sources: PAD and APCD.




                                           - 41 -

                                           Table 2.1: Income Statement
                                    (Y million, year ending 31 December)

                                  2002    2003    2004    2005     2006 2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012


Traffic (million veh-km)          117.67 393.97 413.90 439.95 464.34 490.19 517.57 546.66 577.48 610.13 616.28

Revenue                            58.75 258.53 362.83 373.96 394.69 416.66 439.93 535.73 565.93 597.93 603.95
 Tolls                                 -       -       -        -      -     -      -      -      -      -        -
 Others                            58.75 258.53 362.83 373.96 394.69 416.66 439.93 535.73 565.93 597.93 603.95

 Total                            117.67 393.97 413.90 439.95 464.34 490.19 517.57 546.66 577.48 610.13 616.28

Operating Taxes
 Business tax                       2.94   12.93   18.14   18.70 19.73 20.83    22.00  26.79  28.30  29.90  30.20
 City tax                           0.21    0.90    1.27     1.31   1.38  1.46   1.54   1.88   1.98   2.09   2.11
 Education levy                     0.09    0.39    0.54     0.56   0.59  0.62   0.66   0.80   0.85   0.90   0.91
              Total                 3.24   14.22   19.95   20.57 21.70 22.91    24.20  29.47  31.13  32.89  33.22

Net Revenue                        55.51 244.31 342.88 353.39 372.99 393.75 415.73 506.26 534.80 565.04 570.73
Operating Costs
 Wages and benefits                 2.10    8.82    9.26   11.22 11.84 12.50    13.20  16.07  16.98  17.94  18.12
 Maintenance                        1.91    8.03    8.43     9.35   9.87 10.42  11.00  13.39  14.15  14.95  15.10
 Operating materials and supplies  10.94   45.95   48.24   56.09 59.20 62.50    65.99  80.36  84.89  89.69  90.59
 Administration & management        1.26    5.29    5.56     7.48   7.89  8.33   8.80  10.71  11.32  11.96  12.08
 Others                             1.84    7.71    8.10     9.35   9.87 10.42  11.00  13.39  14.15  14.95  15.10
 Total working costs               18.05   75.80   79.59   93.49 98.67 104.17 109.99 133.92 141.49 149.49 150.99
           Depreciation            21.15   84.65   84.71   85.18 85.20 85.23    85.25  85.43  85.46  85.49  85.52

 Total operating costs             39.20 160.45 164.30 178.67 183.87 189.40 195.24 219.35 226.95 234.98 236.51


Operating Profit                   16.31   83.86 178.58 174.72 189.12 204.35 220.49 286.91 307.85 330.06 334.22
Financial charges:  IBRD           48.20   55.40 125.45    44.93 42.64 40.26    37.78  35.21  32.53  29.74 26.83
                    Local Bank     71.96 122.56 118.15     33.15 33.15 31.33    23.50  15.67   7.83      -     -
 Other income (expenses)                   (6.13)  (6.13)  (6.13) (6.13) (6.13) (6.13) (6.13) (6.13) (6.13) (6.13)


Profit Before Taxes /1           (109.98)(100.23) (71.15)  90.51 107.20 126.63 153.08 229.90 261.36 294.19 301.26
 Income tax                            -       -       -        -      - 14.18  50.52  75.87  86.25  97.08  99.42


Net Profit After Taxes           (109.98)(100.23) (71.15)  90.51 107.20 112.45 102.56 154.03 175.11 197.11 201.84

Rate of Return on Average Net
Fixed Assets                       --     (3.9)   (2.8)    3.2     3.5   4.1    5.0    7.5    8.5    9.5    9.7

The expressway opened to traffic in October 2002.
Actual: 2002-2004, best estimates: 2005, forecast: 2006 thereafter.
/_1: 33% after the tax credit.




                                                            - 42 -

                                Table 2.2: Sources and Applications of Funds
                                      (Y million, year ending 31 December)

                        1999    2000   2001    2002    2003     2004    2005   2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012


Sources:
Net profits                -      -      -    (109.98) (100.23)  (71.15)  90.51107.20 112.45 102.6154.03 175.11 197.11 201.84
Depreciation               -      -      -       21.15   84.65    84.71   85.18 85.20  85.23 85.25 85.43   85.46 85.49   85.52
State contribution       219.34 144.79 145.35    72.69   24.12    14.41    7.30   -     -      -      -     -      -      -
Provincial contribution     5.69  3.75   3.77     1.88     0.63     0.37   0.19   -     -      -      -     -      -      -
Borrowing: IBRD          397.13 262.15 263.15   131.61   43.67    26.08   13.21   -     -      -      -     -      -      -
             Local       293.40 193.68 194.41    97.22   32.26    19.27    9.76   -     -      -      -     -      -      -

Others                   171.14 112.98 113.41    56.71   18.82    11.24    5.70   -     -      -      -     -      -      -

          Total

Applications:
Capital expenditure     1,086.70 717.35 720.09  360.11  119.50    71.37   36.16  8.45   8.70   8.96 66.51   9.51   9.80  10.09
Other expenditure          -      -      -       -       -        -       -       -     -      -      -     -      -      -
Loan repayment:            -      -      -       -       -        -       56.61 58.90  61.28 63.76 66.33   69.01 71.80   74.71
         IBRD              -      -      -       30.00   85.00    85.00   -       -    35.12151.22151.22 151.22 151.22    -
         Local             -      -      -       20.28 (179.85)  (20.54) (1.08) (2.03) (2.18) (2.3) (9.45) (2.98) (3.15) (0.61)
Change w/ capital
                        1,086.70 717.35 720.09  410.39   24.65   135.83   91.69 65.32 102.92221.65274.61 226.76 229.67   84.19

          Total         1,086.70 717.35 720.09  360.11  119.50    71.37   36.16  8.45   8.70   8.96 66.51   9.51   9.80  10.09


Net Funds Flow             -      -      -    (139.11) 79.27    (50.90) 120.16 127.08 94.76 (33.8) (35.2) 33.81  52.93 203.17

 Open balance              -      -      -       -    (139.11) (59.84) (110.74) 9.42 136.50 231.26197.42 162.27 196.08 249.01

 Closing balance           -      -      -    (139.11) (59.84) (110.74)  9.42  136.50 231.26 197.42162.27 196.08 249.01 452.18


D/S Cover                 --      --     --    (2.96)  (0.18)    0.16    3.10   3.27  2.05    0.87 1.10    1.18   1.27  3.85




                                                             - 43 -

                                           Table 2.3: Balance Sheet
                                  (Y million, year ending 31 December)

                           2002     2003     2004     2005     2006     2007     2008     2009     2010     2011     2012

Assets:
Fixed Assets
 At cost                   2,563.67 2,565.28 2,566.96 3,078.73 3,079.58 3,080.45 3,081.35 3,088.00 3,088.95 3,089.93 3,090.94

 Less: Depreciation          21.15    105.80   190.51   275.69   360.89   446.12   531.37  616.80    702.26  787.75   873.27

       Net fixed assets    2,542.52 2,459.48 2,376.45 2,803.04 2,718.69 2,634.33 2,549.98 2,471.20 2,386.69 2,302.18 2,217.67

Current Assets
 Inventory                     0.24     0.25     0.26     0.28     0.30     0.31     0.33     0.40     0.42     0.45     0.45
 Receivable                    0.18     0.19     0.20     0.22     0.24     0.25     0.26     0.32     0.34     0.36     0.36
 Cash                      (139.11)  (59.84) (110.74)     9.42   136.50   231.26   197.42  162.27    196.08  249.01   452.18

           Subtotal        (138.69)  (59.40) (110.28)     9.92   137.04   231.82   198.01  162.99    196.84  249.82   452.99

Other Assets                      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -


         Total Assets      2,403.83 2,400.08 2,266.17 2,812.96 2,855.73 2,866.15 2,747.99 2,634.19 2,583.53 2,552.00 2,670.66


Liabilities & Equity
State funds- Equity        1,129.56   866.37   823.57 1,055.17 1,154.77 1,259.39 1,353.89 1,448.06 1,614.61 1,802.90 1,995.66

L/T loans: IBRD              500.35   860.36   878.89 1,080.39 1,021.49   960.21   896.45  830.12    761.11  689.31   614.60
             Local           768.04   645.49   527.34   640.00   640.00   604.88   453.66  302.44    151.22        -        -
           Subtotal        1,268.39 1,505.85 1,406.23 1,720.39 1,661.49 1,565.09 1,350.11 1,132.56   912.33  689.31   614.60

Current Liabilities            5.88    25.85    36.28    37.40   39.47     41.67    43.99   53.57    56.59    59.79    60.40
Other Liabilities                 -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -

Total Liabilities & Equity 2,403.83 2,400.08 2,266.17 2,812.96 2,855.73 2,866.15 2,747.99 2,634.19 2,583.53 2,552.00 2,670.66


Current ratio              (23.7)    (2.3)    (3.1)     0.3      3.5      5.5      4.5      3.0      3.5      4.2      7.5
Debt- to- equity ratio      53/47   64/36    64/36    62/38    60/40    56/44    51/49    45/55    38/62    29/71    25/75




                                                             - 44 -

                          Table 2.4: Assumptions for Financial Forecasts

1. Normal Traffic (AADT):
                       Small      Medium      Large        Small     Medium    Large       Tractor
                        car         bus        bus         truck       truck    truck     -Trailer Total
   1. Xiaoxichong (Hefei)- Susanline
             2003      2,330        863        575         1,290       2,042    1,476       705    9,281
             2004      3,155       1,169       779         1,747       2,765    1,998       955    12,568
             2005      3,439       1,245       837         1,861       2,876    2,128      1,016   13,402
             2015      5,091       1,594      1,239        2,382       3,682    3,150      1,655   18,793
             2025      6,206       1,676      1,510        2,504       3,870    3,840      2,224   21,830
   2. Susan Line- Mayan
             2003      2,122        786        524         1,175       1,860    1,344       643    8,454
             2004      2,796       1,036       691         1,548       2,451    1,771       847    11,140
             2005      3,020       1,093       739         1,641       2,549    1,877       898    11,817
             2015      4,470       1,399      1,094        2,101       3,263    2,778      1,463   16,568
             2025      5,449       1,471      1,334        2,208       3,430    3,386      1,966   19,244
   3. Mayan- Gezidun
             2003      1,951        723        482         1,080       1,710    1,236       591    7,773
             2004      2,532        938        626         1,402       2,220    1,604       767    10,089
             2005      2,735        990        670         1,486       2,307    1,700       814    10,702
             2015      4,048       1,267       992         1,902       2,953    2,516      1,326   15,004
             2025      4,934       1,332      1,209        1,999       3,104    3,067      1,782   17,427
   4. Gezidun- Wuheng
             2003       711         263        176          394         623     450         215    2,832
             2004       885         327        218          488         773     558         264    3,513
             2005       953         345        233          517         804     591         284    3,727
             2015      1,281        400        313          600         933     794         420    4,741
             2025      1,415        380        346          571         887     877         512    4,988
   5. Wuheng- Zongpu (Anqing)
             2003       711         263        176          394         623     450         215    2,832
             2004       882         327        218          488         773     558         267    3,513
             2005       953         345        233          517         804     591         284    3,727
             2015      1,281        400        313          600         933     794         420    4,741
             2025      1,415        380        346          571         887     877         512    4,988

2. Operating Taxes
   a. Business Tax                      5% of total revenue.
   b. City Tax                          7% of business tax.
   c. Education levy                    3% of business tax.

3. Operating Cost:
   a. Wages and benefits:             0.030 of total revenue.
   b. Maintenance                     0.025 of total revenue.
   c. Fuel and materials              0.150 of total revenue.
   d. Administration                  0.020 of total revenue.
   e. Others                          0.025 of total revenue.
   f. Depreciation                       30 years straight-line method.

4. Income tax rate                     33% after the tax credit.

5. Borrowing:       The IBRD           4.0% on 20 year maturities, LIBOR US$ based single currency
                                            including 5 years grace period.
                    Local              5.2% flexible principal payment.

6. Capital maintenance (million Yuan/ km)   Routine (annual) Medium (/ 5 years) Major (/ 10 years)
      (Increase 5 % pa.)                           0.05              0.35              0.65




                                                           - 45 -

Table 3: Anhui: Highway Revenue and Expenditure (The Tenth Five Year Plan)
                                                    (Y million)
                                                       2001     2002      2003      2004      2005      Total
Revenue
        1 Road maintenance fee                         1,230.19 1,359.54 1,474.24 1,752.76      193.84  6,010.57
        2 Tolls                                        1,199.61 1,351.92 1,372.00 1,668.00      178.15  5,769.68
        3 Surcharge on passenger tickets                457.90    529.25    489.58    584.75    613.99  2,675.47
        4 Vehicle purchase fee                            25.00        -         -         -         -     25.00
        5 MOC subsidy                                   943.45    734.00 1,129.65 1,393.28           - 4,200.38
        6 Local financial allocation                    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00    100.00   500.00
        7 Bank loan                                    2,500.00 3,824.00 5,400.00 5,230.00 7,155.00 24,109.00
        8 Fund-raised by enterprise                     400.00    700.00 1,756.00 2,755.00 1,808.00 7,419.00
        9 Other funds                                  3,167.28 2,359.84 2,929.30 5,029.66 8,426.87 21,912.95


          Total                                      10,023.43 10,958.55 14,650.77 18,513.45 18,475.85 72,622.05


Expenditure:
        1 New construction                             7,840.56 8,647.85 12,212.00 15,940.00 15,760.00 60,400.41
        2 Taxes                                           81.87   95.14     102.47    110.43    119.05   508.96
        3 Traffic safety supervision                      28.42   31.81     35.34     38.49     41.98    176.04
        4 Major maintenance                             475.65    504.19    534.44    566.50    600.50  2,681.28
        5 Medium maintenance                            407.70    432.16    458.09    485.58    514.71  2,298.24
        6 Routine maintenance                           257.21    268.78    280.88    293.52    306.73  1,407.12
        7 Administration and study                      180.00    189.00    198.45    208.37    218.79   994.61
        8 Repayment of interest and principle           752.02    789.62    829.10    870.56    914.09  4,155.39


          Total                                      10,023.43 10,958.55 14,650.77 18,513.45 18,475.85 72,622.05

Total Road Network (km) -(a)                           65,807  67,548    69,560    71,783    73,000    347,698
Average annual increase                                  --     2.6%      3.0%      3.2%      1.7%      2.1%
Total maintenance expenditure (million Yuan)-(b) /_1 1,140.56 1,205.13 1,273.41 1,345.60 1,421.94 6,386.64
Average unit maint. expenditure ('000 Y/km)- (b)/(a)   17.33    17.84     18.31     18.75     19.48     18.37
Average annual increase                                  --     2.9%      2.6%      2.4%      3.9%      2.4%



/_1: Sum of major, medium and routine maintenance.
 Actual: 2001- 2004, best estimate: 2005.




                                                         - 46 -

                                                                                                               APPENDIX 1


          CHINA: ANHUI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
      EIRR SIMULATION AND PROBABILISTIC RISK ANALYSIS



Summary:
         Display Range is from 0.0% to 80.0% (in%)
         Entire Range is from 7.0% to 145.1% (in%)
         After 995 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.6%

Statistics:                                      Value         Percentiles:
         Trials                                    995                                 Percentile       (in%)
         Mean                                    28.0%                                       0%         7.0%
         Median                                  22.0%                                      10%         10.1%
         Mode                                        ---       Low Scenario                 20%         13.0%
         Standard Deviation                      19.5%                                      30%         15.7%
         Variance                                 3.8%         Most Likely                  40%         18.6%
         Skewness                                  1.89                                     50%         22.0%
         Kurtosis                                  8.01        High Scenario                60%         26.3%
         Coeff. of Variability                     0.70                                     70%         31.7%
         Range Minimum                            7.0%                                      80%         40.6%
         Range Maximum                         145.1%                                       90%         54.1%
         Range Width                           138.1%                                     100%         145.1%
         Mean Std. Error                         0.62%


                                         Forecast: Total Project- EIRR

          995 Trials                                FrequencyChart                                 26Outliers

                .034                                                                               34



                .026                                                                               25.5



                .017                                                                               17



                .009                                                                               8.5



                .000                                                                               0

                      0.0%              20.0%            40.0%             60.0%            80.0%

                                                           (in%)



                                                    Assumptions

Traffic growth rate                                            VOC
Normal distribution with parameters:                           Triangular distribution with parameters:
Mean                            95.0%                          Minimum                    90.0%
Standard Dev.                   10.0%                          Likeliest                100.0%
                                                               Maximum                  105.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity                  Selected range is from 90.0% to 105.0%
Mean value in simulation was 95.1%                             Mean value in simulation was 98.2%




                                                                    - 47 -

                                                                                                APPENDIX 2

               CHINA: ANHUI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
           FIRR SIMULATION AND PROBABILISTIC RISK ANALYSIS


Summary:
        Display Range is from -3.0% to 4.0% (%)
        Entire Range is from -4.5% to 3.9% (%)
        After 1,000 Trials, the Std. Error of the Mean is 0.0%

Statistics:                                     Value        Percentiles:
        Trials                                    1000                               Percentile         (%)
        Mean                                     0.7%                                      0%         -4.5%
        Median                                   0.8%                                     10%         -1.1%
        Mode                                        ---      Low Scenario                 20%         -0.3%
        Standard Deviation                       1.3%                                     30%         0.1%
        Variance                                 0.0%        Most Likely                  40%         0.4%
        Skewness                                 -0.39                                    50%         0.8%
        Kurtosis                                  3.17       High Scenario                60%         1.1%
        Coeff. of Variability                     1.90                                    70%         1.4%
        Range Minimum                           -4.5%                                     80%         1.8%
        Range Maximum                            3.9%                                     90%         2.3%
        Range Width                              8.4%                                   100%          3.9%
        Mean Std. Error                         0.04%


                              Forecast: FIRR: Anhui HighwayProject ICR

         1,000 Trials                              FrequencyChart                                 4Outliers

               .031                                                                              31



               .023                                                                              23.25



               .016                                                                              15.5



               .008                                                                              7.75



               .000                                                                              0

                     -3.0%             -1.3%             0.5%            2.3%              4.0%

                                                          (%)




                                                   Assumptions



Toll                                                         Total working cost.
Triangular distribution with parameters:                     Triangular distribution with parameters:
Minimum                         90.0%                        Minimum                    90.0%
Likeliest                     100.0%                         Likeliest                100.0%
Maximum                       110.0%                         Maximum                  110.0%
Selected range is from 90.0% to 110.0%                       Selected range is from 90.0% to 110.0%
Mean value in simulation was 100.0%                          Mean value in simulation was 99.8%

Traffic
Normal distribution with parameters:
Mean                          100.0%
Standard Dev.                   10.0%
Selected range is from -Infinity to +Infinity
Mean value in simulation was 100.1%




                                                               - 48 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/25/1997                3    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1)
              11/01/1997                8    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                             IST/TRAINING (1);
                                             MAINTENANCE (1);
                                             ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1);
                                             RESETTLEMENT (1)
              05/14/1998                7    SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                             HIGHWAY SAFETY CONS.
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/02/1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                                             (1)
              10/29/1998                5    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             LAWYER (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT ANALYSIS
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENT (1)

 Supervision

              04/07/1999                7    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEERING (1);
                                             RESETTLEMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             OPERATION ASSISTANT (1)
              11/29/1999                2    TASK MANAGER (1); HWY            S               S
                                             MAINTENANCE (1)
              07/29/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); HIGHWAY



                                              - 49 -

                                           MAINTENANCE (1)
               03/12/2001              4   TEAM LEADER (1); HWY               S    S
                                           ENGINEER (1); HWY
                                           MAINTENANCE (1); HWY
                                           CONSULTANT (1)
               09/12/2001              2   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           HWY MAINT./SAFETY CONS
                                           (1)
               04/06/2002              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           HWY ENGINEER (1); HWY
                                           MAINT./SAFETY CONS (1);
                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT (1)
               09/28/2002              4   TTL (1); HIGHWAY                   S    S
                                           ENGINEERING (1);
                                           ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                           SAFETY/MAITENANCE CONS
                                           (1)
               02/26/2003              6   TTL/SR. HIGHWAY ENGR. (1);         S    S
                                           HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                           HIGHWAY SAFETY EXPERT
                                           (1); ENVIRONMENT (1); HWY
                                           MAINT/SAFETY CONS (1);
                                           OPERATION ASSISTANT (1)
               10/17/2003              3   TTL/SR. HIGHWAY ENG (1);           S    S
                                           HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                           ENVIRONMENT SPEC (1)
               05/28/2004              3   TTL/SR. HWY ENGINEER (1);          S    S
                                           HWY ENGINEERING/CONS
                                           (1); ENVIRONMENT (1)
               03/05/2005              7   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                           ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (1);
                                           HWY ENGINEERING (1);
                                           RESETTLEMENT (1);
                                           ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                           ENGINEER/CONS (1);
                                           IST/SAFETY CONS (1)

 ICR
               09/26/2005                   TASK TEAM LEADER;                 S    S
                                            ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
                                            (1)


(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            50.6                        156.30
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 12.3                         37.26
  Supervision                           79.6                        365.86
  ICR
  Total                                142.5                        559.86




                                            - 50 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 51 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 52 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


The World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, Anhui Provincial Highway Project, October 30, 1998.

The World Bank, Loan Agreement, Anhui Provincial Highway Project Between the People's Republic of
China and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, March 11, 1999.

Anhui Provincial Communications Department, Anhui Provincial Highway Project, Summary of
Environmental Report, June 30, 2005

Anhui Provincial Communications Department, Anhui Provincial Highway Project, Resettlement
Completion Report, August 2001

Anhui Provincial Communications Department, Anhui Provincial Highway Project, Monitoring Indicators
for 2004




                                                 - 53 -

- 54 -

                                                                    CHINA                                                                                                                                                                        RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FEDERATION
                ANHUI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                   206     NATIONAL ROADS
                                                                                                                                                           PROVINCIAL ROADS                                                                                                                        HEILONGJIANG

                                       ANHUI TRANSPORT SYSTEM                                                                                              RAILROADS                                                                    MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                           SELECTED CITIES                                                                                                                          JILIN


                                                                                                                                                           PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                        Sea of
                                                                                                                                                                                                           XINJIANG                                                                          LIAONING                  Japan      JAPAN
                                                      EXPRESSWAY CONSTRUCTED                                                                                                                                                                                         MONGOL                             D.P.R. OF
                                                                                                                                                           PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                                                     NEI      BEIJING                         KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BEIJING
                                                      EXPRESSWAY UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                                        AIRPORTS                                                                                                           HEBEI   TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             REP. OF
                                                      RURAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KOREA
                                                                                                                                                           RIVERS                                                                                                    SHANXI                        Yellow
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHANDONG            Sea
                                                                                                                                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                         QINGHAI                    NINGXIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GANSU                                          JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHAANXI        HENAN                                  East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               China
                          115                                                        116                                                           117                                                                                                                              ANHUI           SHANGHAI   Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                              XIZANG                                                   HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SICHUAN
              35                                                                                                                                   Weishan                                      35                                                                                          ZHEJIANG

                                                                                                                                                   Lake                                                                                                  CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JIANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HUNAN

                                            S H A N D O N G                                                                                                                                                                                     GUIZHOU                                  FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                              National Capital
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PACIFIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Province               YUNNAN                                                         TAIWAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                              Boundaries                                    GUANGXI       GUANGDONG                                    OCEAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                              International
                                                                                                                                                                                                                MYANMAR                                                             HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Boundaries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LAO      VIETNAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        P.D.R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HAINAN                                    PHILIPPINES



                                                                                      310                                                                                                                  118                                                                  119



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0                 25                50              75
                                                                                                                                                              XuzhouXuzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KILOMETERS
                                                                                                  S202 XIAOHUAI
              34                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     34


                                                                                                   311                      Huaibei
                                                                                                                            Huaibei                                                                                                                                  J I A N G S U
                                                                                Bozhou
                                                                                Bozhou
                                                                                                                                                   206


            H E N A N                                                  105
                                                                                                                                                      Suzhou
                                                                                                                                                      Suzhou

                                                                                                                                                                                       Lingbi
                                                                                                                                                                                       Lingbi       104

                                                                                    GuoyangGuoyang                                                                                                      Si Xian
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Si Xian




                                                                                                                                                         GuzhenGuzhen                                                                          Hongze
                                                                                                     MengchengMengcheng                                                                                                                         Lake
                                                 S328
                 NANZHAO-FUNAN-YANGQIAO                                                                    LixinLixin

              33

                                                                                                                                           HuaiyuanHuaiyuan                BengbuBengbu    Huai River                                                                                                                                33

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Gaoyou
                                                                                 FuyangFuyang                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lake
                                                                                                                                                                               FengyangFengyang                 Mingguang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mingguang

                                                                                                                                    Fengtai
                                                                                                                                    Fengtai                                                                                                                            Tianchang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ianchang

                                                                    FunanFunan
                                                                                             Yingshang
                                                                                             ingshang
                                                                                                                           Shou Xian
                                                                                                                           Shou Xian                  HuainanHuainan
                                                                                                 Huai      River                                                           DingyuanDingyuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     205
                                   G105 NANZHAO
                                                                                             S203 SHOUXIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                  Yangzhou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              angzhou
                                                                                               HuoqiuHuoqiu                                                                                                         ChuzhouChuzhou
                                                                                                                                                  Wabu                                                                                                                                                         ZhenjiangZhenjiang
                                                                                                                                                  Lake


                                                                                      S203 LUAN                                                                                                                   Quanjiao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Quanjiao


              32                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NANJINGNANJING                                               32


                                                                                                                                                                           Feidong
                                                                                                                                                                           Feidong
                                                                                                                                                        HEFEIHEFEI
                                                                                     Yeji
                                                                                      eji

                                                                                                                                S315 YANGTAO
                                                                                                                LuanLuan    312                                                                                                 Ma'anshan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ma'anshan
                                                                                    Jinzhai
                                                                                    Jinzhai                                                                  FeixiFeixi
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Chaolu
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Chaolu

                                                                                                                                                                              Chao
                                                                      LUAN-SHUCHENG-SANHE                                                                                                                  S316 CHAOLU
                                                                                                                                  ShuchengShucheng                             Lake                                                                          Shijiu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lake

                                                                                                                     Huoshan
                                                                                                                     Huoshan                                                                                                               Wu u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Wuh


                                                                                                                                                     206
                                                                                                                                                                                                           S319 WUWEI-HUANGGU                                                              Nanyi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lake
                                                                                                                                   Tongcheng
                                                                                                                                    ongcheng                              For Detail, see

              31                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 29508R                    Chang    Jiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     31
                      H U B E I                                                                                                                                                                                                               XuanzhouXuanzhou

                                                                                                                      Yu xi
                                                                                                                      Yue                                                                             Tongling
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ongling          Nanling
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nanling
                                                                                                                                                           Caizi                                                                                                                                        GuangdeGuangde

                                                                                                                                                           Lake

                                                                                                                              GaoheGaohe                                                                                 318

                                                                                    Hualiangting                                                                               GuichiGuichi                                                  Jing Xian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jing Xian
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Qingyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Qingyang                                                      NingguoNingguo
                                                                                     Reservoir


                                                                                      G318 HUAINING                                      AnqingAnqing

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Taiping
                                                                                              Taihu
                                                                                               aihu                                                                                                                               Lake
                                                                                                                             Wuchang
                                                                                                                               Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JingdeJingde
                                                                                                                                                                              ShitaiShitai




              30                            ChangJiang                                         Longgan Lake

                                                                                                                                                      DongzhiDongzhi                                                                                         JixiJixi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30


                                                                                                                                                                                                    Yi Xian
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Xian                                                                               Z H E J I A N G
                                                                                                                                                                                        QimenQimen                                            Shexian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Shexian


                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XiuningXiuning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HuangshanHuangshan




FEBRUAR         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD
                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                     J I A N G X I                                                                                                                                                          29507R
       Y        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
        2006                                                                                                               Poyang
                  115                                                             116                                      Lake                   117                                                        118                                                                       119

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 29508R


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHANDONG




                                                                                                                                                     CHINA                                                                                                                                                                                                                   J I A N G S U

                                                                                                           ANHUI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
                                                                                                                              HEFEI - ANQING EXPRESSWAY                                                                                                                                                                  HENAN                                 Suzhou




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Fuyang



                                                                                                          PROPOSED HEFEI - ANQING EXPRESSWAY (HAE)                                                 EXPRESSWAYS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Chuzhou
                                                                                                          EXTENSION TO HUBEI BORDER (UNDER CONSTRUCTION)                                     206   NATIONAL ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NANJING
                                                                                                          INTERCHANGES                                                                             PROVINCIAL ROADS                                                                                                                                          HEFEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Luan   AREA           Chaohu
                                                                                                          SERVICE AREA                                                                             RAILROADS                                                                                                                                              OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAP
                                                                                                   T      TOLL STATIONS                                                                            AIRPORT

                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS                                                                                                                     H U B E I                                         Xuanzhou

                                                                                                                                                                                                   LAKES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Anqing




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                       0        5           10       15        20         25         30                                                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                            Huangshan

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                  KILOMETERS                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                J I A N G X I



                                                                                                                                                                                  To Tongling

                                         Changlinghe                                                                                                           LuJiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pogang

           Cuozheng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Caizi
NanjingoT                                                 Chao Lake

                                                                                            Xinghe         HangpuRiver                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To Anqing
                                                                                                                                Daigiao                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Lake

                                                                                                                                          HIGHWAY                                    HEFEI - TONGLING - HUANGSHAN
                                                                                                                                                                                     HIGHWAY (in planning)                                                                                                  Lake


          HEFEI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Baitu                                                                                              T
               -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Zongpu
                NANJING
                       EXPRESSWAY  Yicheng                                                   Fengle River                 HEFEI-TONGLING                                                     Yanggang

                                                                                                                                                     Changgang   60 km        Chenpu                                                                                       Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Xizi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Leqiao
                                                                                                                                                                                      70 km                                                                                                                    Lake
                                                                                                                                                            T
                                                                                                                                      Jinliu  50 km                    Yuemiao
                                                                                                                                                                               Ketan                                                                                                                                                                      Wuheng
                                                                                                                         40 km


                                 Yandun           10 km      Pai River                                                                                                                              Xindian 80 km
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Hongmiao                                                     River                                                                             Yueshan

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sanyasi
                                                                                             30 km         T                                                                                                                    90 km
          HeFei                                                        20 km                                                                                                                                                            Gaoqiao                                                                     Shuangpu                           Lake
                                    High
                                    Technology                            T                        Fongle      Hangpu                                                                                                                             100 km
                                    Development                 Yandian                                                                                Tangchi               Keshu                             Luting                      Baima                            Longmian110 km                                                                           Wanqiao

                                    Zone                                                                                                                                                     Shanshipu                                  T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Xiangpu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                120 km

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Gazidun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Laomei                                          T
                                                       Feixi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Jingong

                                                                        HEFEI-JIUJIANGRAILROAD                                                                                                                                                                 Fanjiagang
                                                                                                                                                                     Shucha                                                                        206                                                      Xinan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TongCheng                                           River                                                      Gaohe
                                                                                                                                                               Junbu                                                                                                       Guache                                                                                     GAOHE - JIEZIDUN
               Dongpu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EXPRESSWAY (under
               Reservoir                                                                                                                          Nangang                                                                                                                                                          Bainian Riv     Renxin                             construction)



                                                                          Huagang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         re        eviRr
                                                                                                          Taoxi                                                                                                                                                Dongpu
                                                                                                                         206

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tangchi                                                                                                                     Qingchao
                                                                                                                                              ShuCheng            Caojiahe                                                                                                         Taochong

                                                         Nongxing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Shapu
                                 Xiaomiao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Hepong     Luzheng                                                                                                             Yuantan
                                                                                                                                                                                     Dudian                                                                                                                                                                   Lingtou


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FEBRUARY 2006

