Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18451-CHA
CN-PE-50036
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FORA
ANHUI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
OCTOBER 30, 1998
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 1998)
Currency Unit = RMB
RMB1 = US$0.12
US$1 = RMB8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT   -  Average Daily Traffic                          IST     -  Institutional Strengthening and Training
AECL  -  Anhui Expressway Company Limited               MOC   -  Ministry of Communications
AHAB  -  Anhui Highway Administration Bureau            MOF   -  Ministry of Finance
APCD  -  Anhui Provincial Communications Department   MTE   -  Medium Truck Equivalent
CAS    -  Country Assistance Strategy                   NCB    -  National Competitive Bidding
E&M    -  Electrical and Mechanical                     NTHS  -  National Trunk Highway System
EA     -  Environmental Assessment                      PAD    -  Project Appraisal Document
EAP    -  Environmental Action Plan                     PEO      - Project Execution Office
EIA    -  Environmental Impact Assessment               PQI    -  Pavement Quality Index
ENPV   -  Economic Net Present Value                    RAP    -  Resettlement Action Plan
EIRR   -  Economic Internal Rate of Return              RMC   -  Resident Mission China
ES      -  Executive Summary (Environmental Report)     SAA    -  State Audit Administration
HAE   -  Hefei-Anqing Expressway                        SOE    -  Statement of Expenditures
HMP   -  Highway Maintenance Program                    SDPC  -  State Development and Planning
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding                         Commission
IEE     -  Initial Environmental Evaluation
Vice President:           Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:         Yukon Huang
Acting Sector Manager:    Jitendra Bajpai
Task Team Leader:         Yasuhiro Kawabata



CHTINA
Anhui Provincial Highway Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective ........................................................2
1.    Project development objective and key performance indicators .................                .................2
B. Strategic Context ...............................................2
1.     Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ................                  .......................2
2.     Main sector issues and Government strategy  ......................................2
3.     Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  ..............            ................3
C. Project Description Summary  ........................................................4
1.     Project components .......................................................4
2.     Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................             ..................4
3.     Benefits and target population .............5..........................................5
4.     Institutional and implementation arrangements ........................................................    5
D. Project Rationale  .......................................................6
1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                                .6
2.     Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development. agencies.                            7
3.  Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                                  .8
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                        .8
5.  Value added of Bank support in this project                                       .9
E. Summary Project Analyses .....................9
1. Economic Assessment                                                   .9
2. Financial Assessment                                                 .9
3. Technical Assessment .10
4. Institutional Assessment .10
5. Social Assessment .10
6. Environmental Assessment .11
7.  Participatory approach ..............                                                                       12
F. Sustainability and Risks ...................                                                                           12
1. Sustainability .12
2. Critical risks .13
3. Possible controversial aspects .14



Page No.
G. Main Loan Conditions ........................................... 14
1.   Agreement to be Reached with the Government ......................... .................. 14
2.   Agreement to be Reached with the Beneficiary ....................... .................... 14
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................................... 16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                 16
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .17
Annex 2.  Project Description .                                                          21
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .                                                      30
Annex 4.  Financing Plan .                                                               31
Annex 5.  Implementation Program .32
Annex 6.      Economic and Financial Evaluation ..                                       36
Annex 7.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .45
Annex 8.  Resettlement Action Plan .51
Annex 9.      Environment Assessment and Action Plan Summary .52
Annex 10.  Financial Management .57
Annex 11.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule .58
Annex 12.  Documents in the Project File .59
Annex 13.  Statement of Loans and Credits .60
Annex 14. Country at a Glance .63
Maps
1 .   Main Highway (HAE) relationship to the National Trunk Highway System, IBRD 29506
2.     Transport System in Anhui, IBRD 29507
3.     Hefei-Anqing Expressway (HAE), IBRD 29508



China
Anhui Provincial Highway Projecit
Project Appraisal Documnent
East Asia and the Pacific Region
Date: October 30, 1998                                Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Yasuhiro Kawabata
Country Director: Yukon Huang                         Acting Sector Manager: Jitendra Bajpai
Project ID: CN-PE-50036     Sector: Transportation    Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan          Program of Targeted      [X]  Yes    [    No
Intervention:
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan       [] Credit      [] Guarantee      [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$M): 200.0
Proposed terms:                       []   Multicurrency     [X] Single currency, specify (US$) LIBOR-
based
Grace period (years):      5       []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed         [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:        20
Commit ment fee:       0.75%
Front-end fee:            1%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government                          253.9                0.0            253.9
IBRD                                  2.2              197.8            200.0
Total                          256.1             197.8            453.9
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Anhui Provincial Communications Department (APCD)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/IJS$M):  1999       2000       2001       2002      2003      2004
Annual    14.9       33.0       35.9       43.7      41.3      31.2
Cumulative    14.9       47.9       83.8      127.5    168.8    200.0
Project implementation period:   5 Years 3 Months (November 1998 - February 2004)
Expected effectiveness date:     May 1999
Expected closing date:           August 31, 2004



Project Appraisal Document                Page 2                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The proposed project would have the following objectives: (a) to relieve traffic congestion and improve
the mobility and integration of interprovincial trade, comhnerce and tourism between the low-income
province of Anhui and the coastal region with its large potential markets and deep-water ports; (b) to
improve and rehabilitate the existing national and provincial highways; (c) to improve the safety of road
transport; and (d) to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Anhui Provincial Communications
Department and its related sector institutions, through provision of training, technical assistance and
equipment, in planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of Anhui's highway network.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16321-CHA      Date of latest CAS discussion: March 18, 1997 and
Progress Report (R98-107), May 28, 1998.
A major objective of the CAS is to alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks. By implementing the HAE
segment of the NTHS, the proposed project would contribute directly to removing infrastructure
bottlenecks, facilitating interprovincial trade, and promoting long-distance highway traffic. It would
contribute to achieving this goal by improving and rehabilitating the existing national and provincial
highway networks through the proposed highway maintenance program.
Alleviation of the income disparity between coastal and interior regions has high priority for the
Government. The CAS referred to this issue by stating the need to "assist local governments to develop
income generating programs in lagging provinces". The project would contribute to this goal by
providing Anhui with direct access to ports and major cities in the coastal provinces, thus stimulating the
economic development of this interior province.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
China's strong economic growth has resulted in high growth in transport demand and a shift toward
highway transport. However, China has historically underinvested in transport and its road network ranks
among the sparsest in the world relative to geographic area and population. As a long term strategy,
governments at all levels have embarked on a major highway investment and improvement program.
At the central level, the basic strategy is to develop a National Trunk Highway System (NTHS) totaling
some 35,000 km, giving priority to five north-south and seven east-west corridors serving border areas
and cross-border trade. The Bank has been heavily involved in the construction of major sections of
NTHS. At the provincial/regional level, the strategy is to: concentrate on the maintenance, expansion
and improvement of provincial and rural road networks, currently totaling about 1.2 million km; provide
better mobility and access; stimulate socioeconomic development, particularly in less-developed regions;
allow adequate access to the NTHS; and better enable its potential benefits to be realized.
On the road transport policy agenda, attention is being paid to a redefinition of government's role in the
transport sector in light of greater private sector involvement. The Ministry of Communications (MOC)
needs to be strengthened to carry out its reformed mandate in matters such as finance, standardization of
planning, management and operation of the NTHS. Local (provincial and municipal) governments are
expected to continue to mobilize the investment resources required (including access to private
investment and capital markets) and to modernize maintenance capacity and improve cost recovery. They
are also expected to further the development of road transport services and the road construction industry,
through deregulation and promotion of competition, access to modem technology and better management.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 3                   Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
The Bank, jointly with MOC, held a high-level highway policy seminar in Beijing during May 6-7, 1997
to discuss the major policy areas to be addressed in the Bank's future highway lending program. These
were: (a) planning of the highway network; (b) highway finance (public and private sources);
(c) maintenance of highways; (d) highway safety; and (e) operation of the highway network with
emphasis on the NTHS. The Bank has recently prepared a report (No. 15959-CHA, April 23, 1998),
"China Forward with One Spirit: A Strategy for the Transport Sector", which provides recommendations
for action in the transport sector including highways. Furthermore, the Bank in cooperation with the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and MOC is presently reviewing the effectiveness of past technical
assistance in the highway sector with a view to establishing a general policy and strategy framework for
the Bank's future lending into this sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The key issues to be addressed by the project are: (a) expansion of highway capacity (mainly along
NTHS) to alleviate bottlenecks and expedite socio-economic growth; (b) highway maintenance;
(c) highway safety; and (d) cost recovery through imposition of tolls on users of the Hefei-Anqing
Expressway.
A study will be undertaken on planning, finance and operation of the toll highway network in Anhui,
particularly focusing on integration to ensure that once the proposed HAE has been completed, it will be
successfully integrated into existing expressway system. Currently, two existing expressway sections are
being managed and operated by the newly established Anhui Expressway Company Limited (AECL). Its
objective is limited to completing the construction of an on-going expressway (Gaohe-Jiezidan
Expressway) and operating all three as a single business. However, lhere could be a possibility that
APCD would transfer HAE to the AECL after completion and opening to traffic and securitize the
revenues from all its assets to inject more financial resources to expand its network.
The recently established AECL sold the part of H share on the Hong Kong market, raising about
RMB 889 million. In addition to acquiring two existing expressways, AECL spent part of the proceeds to
acquire the Gaohe-Jiezidan Expressway (still under construction), which immediately connects with the
proposed HAE at its north end. In this sense, the Province is utilizing an innovative combination of
private and public funding of its Expressway network.
Road maintenance in Anhui is adequately financed in that sufficient funds are allocated to prevent further
deterioration of the network. The project monitoring activities will include maintenance funding and
perfornance to ensure that this situation is sustained or improved.
Traffic accidents are now a major problem in China and by most measures has the 'world's highest road
accident rate. In recent years, the Bank, as well as ADB and other institutions, has become increasingly
concemed about growing problems of highway safety. Under the proposed highway safety component,
these issues will be addressed both through civil works (improvement of blackspots) and analyses of
traffic accidents.



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 4                      Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description of each component to be included in the
project).
The proposed project would include:
Component                 Category       Cost Incl.    % of     Bank-       % of
Contingencies    Total   financing  Bank-
(US$M)                (US$M)    financing
(a) Construction of a 152 km expressway    Physical   351.6        77.5      166.4       47.3
connecting Hefei and Anqing
(b) Highway Maintenance (Improvement   Policy-         66.8        14.7       27.9       41.8
and rehabilitation of existing highways)  physical
(c) Highway safety program           Policy-            4.1         0.9        2.1       51.2
physical
(d) Program for strengthening of     Institution-       2.8         0.6        1.6       57.1
institutions, through training and other  building
means
(e) Front-end fee                                       2.0         0.4        2.0      100.0
(f) Land acquisition and resettlement  Implementation  26.6         5.9         0           0
support
Total                                   453.9       100.0      200.0      44.1
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Highway Maintenance
Until recently there has been a decline in maintenance standards for existing roads and highways. There
were two principal reasons for this - first, a high percentage of available highway funds were absorbed by
new highway construction, especially for high-grade highways and second, the geometric and structural
capacity of many older highways was poor. As traffic volumes increased and axle loads became heavier,
deterioration of existing highway infrastructure accelerated. Recent increase in expenditure on
maintenance have resolved the first of these, but not yet overcome the problems resulting from past
underfunding.
The proposed Highway Maintenance Program (HMP) will contribute to removing the backlog by
improving and rehabilitating some of the seriously deteriorated sections. Others are being addressed by
APCD's own resources. The proposed HMP would include improvement and rehabilitation of about 240
km of existing national and provincial highways. APCD will submit annually a highway maintenance
report so that the Bank can monitor the maintenance activities and expenditures made in the past year and
the targets and budget funds for the following year.
The highway maintenance component also involves a study, which will analyze how, given the existing
institutional structure of planning, maintenance, finance and operation, the most beneficial results for
Anhui can be obtained from maintenance activities.
Highway Safety
Cognizant of the seriousness of highway safety situation in China, the proposed project will also address
this issue. The main components of this program are: (a) carrying out a pilot program of accident black
spot improvements; and (b) undertaking a study of highway traffic accidents on major highways, to
determine the main factors contributing to accidents and identify areas needed for future actions to reduce
their frequency and severity.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 5                   Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Institutional Strengthening/Training (IST)
The proposed institutional strengthening and training is a part of a broad, longer-term effort to build up
the planning, construction, maintenance and overall management capacities of the APCD in light of its
rapidly expanding investment and maintenance program. The IST has two specific areas of focus: first, to
strengthen the capacity of its two design institutes and second, to strengthen the recently created PEO and
the Anhui High-Grade Highway Administration Bureau in the planning, design, construction and
supervision as well as the operations, maintenance and toll collection on high-grade highways in Anhui.
3. Benefits and target population:
Direct benefits: would derive mainly from reductions in vehicle operating costs and savings in time, for
both people and freight, reductions in traffic accidents, and stimulating economic activity. The major
beneficiaries would be the communities along the Hefei-Anqing corridor as well as intercity traffic
between cities in the corridor and beyond. The proposed expressway will also result in generated traffic
due to reductions in transport costs and alleviation of traffic congestion. The total affected population in
the corridor is estimated at 20.7 million (based on 1995 data).
The highway maintenance component would aim at stabilizing the condition of the existing network at a
sustainable level. Benefits would include reduced vehicle operating c.osts and shorter travel times and
would accrue to the population throughout the province.
Other benefits: Would include (a) strengthening the capabilities of the agencies/institutions responsible
for the highway sector and (b) improvements in the quality of construLction of highways, through the
introduction of improved technology and better arrangements for supervision of construction. The project
would also foster improved practices in the areas of environment, land acquisition and resettlement of
affected people and participatory approaches to project preparation and implementation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
APCD has overall responsibility for project preparation and implementation. The ALnhui Highway
Administration Bureau (AHAB) is responsible for the implementation of the HMP and the Highway
Safety Program. APCD has established a World Bank Loans Project Execution Office (PEO) and
supplied it with adequate staff, offices, related equipment and operating budget. It will ensure
coordination among all the involved agencies and to affect the smooth preparation and implementation of
the project. Overall direction of the project at the central level would rest with MOC. Since this would
be the first Bank-financed project to be implemented by APCD, MOC would assume a coordinating role
and provide more than usual technical support.
The International Tendering Company has been retained as the procurement agency for all aspects of civil
and electrical and mechanical works of the project requiring ICB ancl for equipment to be procured from
abroad. The supervision of construction of the HAE would be carried out by a joint foreign/local
supervision team.
On-Lending Arrangements: The proposed loan of $200 million will be made to the People's Republic
of China. It would be at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency
loans, with a maturity of 20 years, including a 5 year grace period. P'roceeds of the loan would be onlent
to Anhui Province on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to PRC.
To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened, with an authorized allocation of $15.0
million, the estimated average expenditures for a four-month period. The account would be opened in US
dollars in a bank acceptable to the Bank and would be managed by the Provincial Finance Bureau.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 6                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Financial Management: Similar to the situation in on-going Bank-financed highway projects in China,
the Anhui Province has the systems and staff to carry out the financial management of the project. Anhui
Province has ongoing Bank-financed projects in other sectors and its Provincial Finance Bureau is
familiar with Bank procedures.
Auditing Arrangements: The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State Auditing Administration
(SAA) would be responsible for auditing of project expenditures. Actual audits would be carried out for
SAA by the provincial branch of SAA or the Provincial Audit Administration. APCD will furnish the
Bank with the audited accounts and special accounts, including SOEs, within six months of the close of
each fiscal year. In the case of the SOEs, the audit report would contain a separate opinion by the
auditors as to whether the SOEs submitted, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support related withdrawals. The Bank Group currently accepts
SAA audits for this purpose.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The project would be supervised through Bank missions
which are scheduled for twice a year. Headquarters and resident mission staff would cooperate in this
activity. Moreover, the Bank would monitor implementation of all components of the project through
quarterly progress reports. Implementation of the main highways would also be followed-up through
monthly progress reports to be prepared by the joint local/foreign supervision team.
During implementation, project performance, including the achievement of project outputs and attainment
of development objectives, will be monitored through the use of annual monitoring reports. The first
annual monitoring reports would be submitted by January 31, 2000 and the last by January 30, 2005. In
addition, the project will be reviewed in an Implementation Completion Report, to be submitted to the
Bank not later than six months after the closing date of the loan.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The existing national highway has been or is being widened to 4-lane Class 1 standard highway.
Possibilities of further improvement were investigated in the feasibility study, but found to be
prohibitively expensive and to involve unnecessary relocation of many people. The technical standard
(number of lanes, and class of highway) and alternative alignments (three major alternatives) were also
evaluated in this study.
Taking account of the existing and future socio-economic conditions in its area of influence, and the
volume and composition of traffic in the corridor, as well as the capacity of the existing transport
infrastructure, the proposed highway was selected as the most cost-effective and strategically appropriate
way to meet the need for improved transport infrastructure in the corridor.



Project Appraisal Document                        Page 7                         Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
Sector issue                         Project                       (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation     Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
- Remove Highway Capacity   Highway Project (completed) 1, 2*                 S                 S
Bottlenecks (1)*
- Institutional            Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway (completed )     S                 S
Strengthening/Training (2)   1-6
- Rural Roads and Poverty  Sichuan Provincial Highway (completed) 1, 2, 6     S                 S
Alleviation (3)
- Highway Safety (4)       Shaanxi Provincial Highway (completed) 1-3, 6      S                 S
- Operation and Maintenance  Jiangxi Provincial Highway (completed) 1, 2, 6   U                 S
of High-Grade Highways
(5)
- Cost Recovery (6)        Shandong Provincial Highway (completed) 1, 2,      S                 S
4,6
Jiangsu Provincial Transport (completed) 1-3, 6   S                 S
Zhejiang Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-3, 6      S                 S
Guangdong Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1-4, 6     S                 S
Henan Highway (ongoing) 1-3, 6                    S                 S
Fujian Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 6                  S                 S
National Highway: Hebei/Henan (ongoing) 1, 2,     S                 S
5,6
Xinjiang Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 4, 6             S                 S
Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 4, 6    S                 S
Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway (ongoing)       S                 S
1-4,6
Second Henan Provincial Highway (ongoing) 1.-     U                 S
5,6
Second Xinjiang Highway (ongoing) 1, 2, 6         S                 S
Second Nat'l Hwy: Guangdong/Hunan                 S                 S
(ongoing) 1, 2, 6
Third Nat'l Hwy (ongoing): Hubei 1, 2, 5, 6
Tri-Provincial Highway: Gansu/Ningxia/Inner
Mongolia (ongoing) 1, 2, 5, 6
National Highway IV: Hubei/Hunan (planned)
1,2,5,6
Fujian Highway 11 (planned): 1, 2, 6               _
Asian Development Bank
Shenyang-Benxi Highway (completed)
Hunan Expressway (completed)
Julin Expressway (completed)
Heilongjiang Expressway (ongoing)
Yunan Expressway (ongoing)
Hebei and Liaoning Expressway (ongoing)
Chongqing Expressway (ongoing)
Liaoning and Jilin Expressway (ongoing)
Jiangxi Highway Project (ongoing)
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of
Japan
Hainan Development
Hefei-Tongling Highway and Tongling Yangtze
River Highway Bridge Construction
Second Chongqing Yangtze River Bridge
Construction
Qiqihar Nenjiang River Highway Bridge
Construction                            _
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
* The numbers correspond to the sector issues in first column of this tabulation.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 8                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has accumulated substantial experience through the preparation and implementation of 20
highway projects in China, seven of which have been completed. While the overall performance of these
projects is by and large satisfactory, a number of problems have occurred, which have been taken into
consideration in the design of the proposed project. The problems include: inadequate preliminary
engineering designs and bid documents; quality control of construction; late commencement of electrical
and mechanical facilities component (which has delayed completion of some projects and necessitated
extension of the closing date of several Bank loans); and the need for improved highway management and
operation, especially for toll expressways.
The engineering designs and bid documents for the proposed highway, including E&M facilities, have
been reviewed by international experts from the early stage of project preparation. The construction will
be supervised by ajoint foreign/local team which will be properly staffed and equipped. Quality control
of construction will also be addressed through increasing the frequency and quality of the Bank's
supervision. This will be reflected in the proposed supervision mission plan. Timely completion of the
E&M component will be achieved through strict control and early commencement of the design and
tendering procedures. Management and operation of the new expressway will be less problematic than in
other provinces because of the already functioning expressway company. A study to be completed early
in the project will indicate how the operation of the new expressway can best be integrated with that of
those already in operation.
There is also a concern that funds for highway maintenance have been insufficient to cover an expanding
highway network. During appraisal, agreement was reached on a program to monitor maintenance
activities and results, and realistic annual targets for their future maintenance. In the proposed highway
maintenance component, about $20 million of Bank's loan will be allocated to implementing part of the
agreed program.
Previous experience with highway safety programs in China has pointed to the difficulty of their
implementation due to lack of coordination between the Traffic Police and the Highway Departments.
This issue reflects a general difficulty with interdepartmental coordination in China. However,
coordination between these agencies is comparatively good in Anhui Province. It has been agreed that
the necessary data on traffic accidents would be provided for the proposed traffic accident analysis, and
its analysis will benefit from participation of the Traffic Police. APCD has already set up a research team
with its Highway Administration Bureau as the lead unit, with participation of the Traffic Police.
Improvement to accident blackspots (13 sites) would be included in this component.
Experience in the land acquisition and resettlement activities has generally been satisfactory in previous
highway projects. A Bank resettlement specialist has been involved from the beginning of project
preparation. Experience in the environmental area in China has also generally been favorable. Special
attention would be paid to environmental supervision during construction and to training of personnel.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The task team found that there is strong support for the proposed project from all levels of governments.
SDPC, MOF, MOC and Anhui Provincial Government strongly support the project, and a few local
governments the team met with expressed enthusiastic support and emphasized the need for the project.
APCD has worked hard on the feasibility studies taking into account the Bank's comments and has
prepared environmental analyses of the proposed expressway strictly following the Bank's suggestions.
The Province as well as MOC, MOF and SDPC are urging the Bank to expedite preparation of the
project.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 9                   Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Involvement of the Bank will result in much needed additional financial resources being available to help
remove highway bottlenecks and increase traffic capacity in high priority corridor. Bank involvement
will accelerate institutional and manpower development in highway planning, design, supervision,
construction, operation and maintenance. Bank involvement is also expected to benefit the design and
construction quality control of both the new roads to be constructed and existing roads to be improved.
Furthermore, the Bank will help APCD to improve maintenance of the whole paved network through
development of improved maintenance planning methods, provision of modem maintenance equipment,
training of staff and allocation of adequate funds. In addition, it will raise the awareness of the highway
safety problem.
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 12)
1. Economic Assessment (supported by Annex 6):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 549.0 million; ERR= 27.1% []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
This economic evaluation covers two project components that account for about 93% of the total project cost:
(a) construction of the HAE, and (b): the HMP for six provincial highways. The principal measured benefits
of the project are savings in vehicle operating costs, time savings to ve]hicle occupants and enhanced road
safety. The estimated overall economic internal rate of return (EIRR) iFor the project is 27.1%, with those for
the HAE and HMP being 25.6% and 37.6% respectively. The overall economic net present value (ENPV),
based on 12% discount rate is estimated at RMB 4,560.1 million, of which the HAE is estimated to contribute
RMB 3,727.7 million and the HMP RMB 828.6 million. An analysis of the evaluation results and a
description of the method used to derive them are provided in Annex 6 and summarized as follows:
Summary of Economic Evaluation Results
Sections             Best estimate EIRR (%)   ENPV (RMB million, 12%)
Hefei - Anqing Expressway:
Xiaoxichong (Hefei) - Susanline        30.4                    1,724.0
Susanline -Mayan                       20.1                     336.6
Mayan - Gezidun (Gaohebu)              25.2                    1,274.3
Gezidun (Gaohebu) - Wuheng             26.4                     340.5
Wuheng - Zongpu (Anqing)               15.4                       52.4
Subtotal                     25.6                    3,727.7
Highway Maintenance Program:
Subtotal                     37.6                      828.6
Total                                   27.1                    4,556.3
2. Financial Assessment (see Annex 6): NPV=US$ 13.4 million; FRR= 12.8 %
Construction of HAE is the main component of the project and the only one that would generate revenue. All
the six provincial highways to be reconstructed under the HMP are toll free. The province is planning to use
the toll revenue to cover the loan amortization charges. Although the expressway will generate enough total
revenue over the loan period, with a standard amortization schedule, there will be deficits in the early years of
operation (from 2003 up to 2005). These annual deficits can be met by transferring revenue from other user
charges or revising the repayment schedule. The expected financial net present value of excess revenues,
once all maintenance, operating and loan repayments have been meet, is positive for the province and
equivalent to RMB 111.0 million overall.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 10                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
3. Technical Assessment:
The HAE and highways included under the HMP were designed by first class reputable Chinese design
institutes, taking account of the latest MOC design standards. The engineering designs and the bid
documents were reviewed by international consultants and found to be satisfactory. The constructability
of the designs was confirmed by these experts. The technologies involved are proven and well mastered
by Chinese contractors.
The cost estimate of the project reflects May 1998 prices and is based on the latest available engineering
studies and prevailing unit rates for civil works, remuneration of foreign experts assigned in other
highway projects in China, and recent price quotations for equipment. The cost estimate includes
physical and price contingencies. Physical contingencies are calculated at 10 percent of the base cost of
civil works and construction supervision. Price contingencies are calculated for foreign costs, using US
annual escalation factors of 4.6% in 1998, 3.2% in 1999, 2.9% in 2000 and 2.5 percent during 2001-2004.
Price contingencies for local costs are based on local annual escalation of 4.8% in 1998, 5.0% in 1999 and
5.5 percent during 2000-2004.
4. Institutional Assessment:
a. Executing agencies:
APCD is capable of successfully implementing the project. It set up a Project Execution Office (PEO), in
September, 1997. PEO currently has a staff of about 23 and its main tasks are to coordinate and manage
the preparation and implementation of the project. PEO has made extensive use of advisers/experts from
completed or ongoing Bank-financed highway projects in other provinces, resulting in better design and
smoother preparation of the project than would have been possible otherwise. The structure of PEO and
its organizational relationship to the other agencies/institutions in APCD are available in the IST report,
which are in turn available in the project files.
b. Project management:
The two main institutional issues relate to the strength of coordination between the Traffic Police and the
highway authorities in the highway safety component, and the integration of operation of the expressway
with that of others already functioning. APCD has already established a research team with the
enthusiastic participation of the Traffic Police. A study on planning, finance and operation of toll
highways would be undertaken to address the issue on integration of highway operations. Successful
implementation of the institutional strengthening/training (IST) component would build on the already
evident strong commitment and active involvement of APCD.
5. Social Assessment (Resettlement):
Acquisition of land is necessary for the project, as well as its associated relocation and economic
rehabilitation of people. About 16,466 mu of land (2,530 households) would need to be acquired and
1,116 residential houses (4,003 persons) will be affected by the project. Out of these, 768 households
(2,758 persons) would need to be relocated. The affected farrners will be rehabilitated through land
redistribution, and there would be no need to create alternative income generating opportunities. In
addition to land acquisition and residential relocation, 24 enterprises will need to be relocated.
Resettlement impacts were identified through a detailed census and socioeconomic survey of the affected
people. Based on the survey, a resettlement action plan (RAP) addressing issues related to entitlements
of affected people in all categories of impacts has been prepared. The RAP contains an adequate
description of the institutions responsible for resettlement implementation, the costs and sources of
funding to complete the resettlement program, the mechanism for grievance redress and the arrangements
for monitoring and evaluating the progress and results of the process. A detailed implementation
schedule, that will require the completion of all compensation and resettlement activities sufficiently
before the proposed start of construction on the respective section, has also been prepared.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 11                   Anhtji Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Since there is no need for changing the occupations of affected people, the resettlement program is not
likely to encounter any significant problems. There is an adequate institutional capacity and commitment
to complete resettlement successfully. Regular internal and external raonitoring of resettlement will
ensure timely review of the progress of resettlement implementation.
As at present envisaged, the proposed improvement and rehabilitation works of six road sections to be
included in the HMP do not require any additional land and will be undertaken within the existing right-
of-way. Should the final design of any of these sections indicate a need for additional land, it would be
acquired in accordance with Bank Guidelines on resettlement. The policy framework described in the
RAPs for the HAE would also apply to the highways to be included under the HIMP. In cases where
people need to be resettled, an inventory of resettlement impacts would be prepared as well.
6. Environmental Assessment: Environmental Category   [X] A  []B    [I C
An environmental assessment (EA) has been carried out for the HAE. During its preparation and
evaluation, national procedures, including those indicated in the Circular on Strengthening Environmental
Impact Assessment Management for Construction Projects Financed by International Financial
Organizations (June 1993) as well as those required by the Bank, were thoroughly followed. The EA
documents such as Environmental Impact Assessment Report (EIA), Environmental Action Plan (EAP)
and Executive Summary (ES) have been prepared, incorporating the Bank comments on earlier drafts, and
found to be satisfactory.
With respect to the HMP, it was agreed that a Sectoral Environmental Assessment approach would be
applied. The Initial Environmental Evaluation Reports (LEE) and EAPs were submitted to the Bank in
June 1998. Those documents were reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. The major findings and
discussions in these documents are summarized below. More detailed information on the EA of HAE as
well as HMP components is attached as Annex 9 to this document.
a. Hefei-Anqing Expressway:
Potential Impacts. Major potential environmental impacts include noise and air pollution during the
construction and operation phases, water pollution during the construction phase, and adverse impacts on
irrigation system.
Mitigation Measures. The EAP specified the appropriate mitigation measures, environmental
monitoring plans, institutional arrangements to implement the EAP, training and equipment requirements,
and the cost estimate of implementation of EAP. Major mitigation mieasures include adequate selection of
alignment, watering to prevent dust during the construction phase, and noise protection measures
including construction of noise barriers, and construction of culverts.
The engineering design and technical specifications for the HAE will incorporate appropriate measures
required for environmental protection. The proposed highway woulcd not affect ecologically sensitive
areas and their construction and operation should have no adverse impacts on the environment. The
APCD would furnish to the Bank by January 31 of each year starting in 2000, an annual environmental
monitoring report for the HAE during the construction phase and for each of the first three years
following completion of construction.
Public Consultation and Feedback. During the EA work, local people have been intensively consulted.
The following approaches were used for public consultation: (i) Consultation meetings with local
governments/representatives; and (ii) Questionnaire analysis of public opinion, supplemented by
interviews. Major concerns from the public are resettlement-related issues. Those other than
resettlement-related issues include: i) noise and air pollution during the construction phase and ii) tree
planting within the project areas. These feedback has been reflected in the engineering designs and the
EAP.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 12                   Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Information Disclosure. Final EIA, EAP and ES were submitted to the Bank in June 1998. Those
environmental documents were made public locally at Anhui Provincial Communication Departnent.
b. Highway Maintenance Component:
No new construction will be included in the HMP. Since the current environmental conditions are good
in quality, the construction works are small in size and the future traffic volumes are relatively small, no
significant potential impacts of the projects are envisaged. Appropriate mitigation measures have been
integrated in EAPs and found satisfactory to the Bank.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The major beneficiaries would be the communities along the Hefei-Anqing corridor as well as
intercity traffic between cities in the corridor and beyond. Benefits resulting from improving the
existing highway condition would accrue to the population throughout the province. The APCD
and its related institutions would also benefit through the institutional strengthening and training
contained in the project.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The affected communities were involved in the formulation and comparison of altemative alignments as
well as the location of interchanges, underpasses and grade separations. During the EIA preparation, the
local people were intensively consulted through meetings with local government representatives and
public opinion questionnaires supplemented by interviews. The environmental documents for the HAE
were made public locally.
Special attention was given to the consultation with affected people and their representatives
during the preparation of the resettlement action plans. Implementation of the resettlement
program is proposed to be a highly participatory exercise. A resettlement information booklet,
including detailed entitlements of each household, main contents of the RAPs, compensation and
entitlement policies and grievance procedures would be distributed to the affected people prior to
resettlement implementation. Both internal and external (by independent monitors) monitoring
of the resettlement program would be conducted.
F: Sustainabiity and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Traffic volumes on the proposed HAE are expected to continue to grow rapidly following the "ramp-up"
period. Experience from completed and ongoing Bank-financed highway projects in China shows a great
commitment for implementation of the physical components of the project, which account for most of the
project cost. Generally, counterpart funds are available on time, but lately some provinces have become
financially overextended resulting in delays in the availability of these funds and a consequent minor
delay in implementation of the project. The level of tolls and the need to review it periodically will be
important for the financial viability of the project particularly the ability to repay the Bank loan and
provide adequate funds for maintenance. In general, the level of highway maintenance has been adequate
for the historic low volumes of heavy traffic, and the maintenance component is intended to extend this
experience into the future, with higher intensity of heavy traffic.



Project Appraisal Document                                Page 13                             Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                                Risk Rating               Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Government at central, provincial and local levels are not         N          Maintain effective dialogue with the central and
sufficiently committed to project                                             provincial governments
Traffic grows at lower than expected rates on toll roads and toll  M           (a) critical review of feasibility studies and review'
roads attract less than expected traffic volumes from existing                of engineering design to minimize project costs.
parallel roads, resulting in underutilization of toll roads, lower             Stidies of user reaction to tolls and sensitivity of
economic benefits and difficulty in repaying Bank loan.                       EERR and loan repayment to different levels of
attraction.
Price control committees delay or do not approve proposed toll    M           (a) Tolls will be set in accordance with a proper
rates which could impact the ability to repay the Bank loan.                  study to be reviewed by the Bank.
(h) Dialogue with the provincial governments.
Political pressure interfere with implementation plans and thus   M            (a) Dialogue with provincial govemment and
adversely affect quality of construction                                      MOC. Continuous external supervision of
construction
(b) Prequalification of contractors is properly done
ar d best contractors selected
Traffic Police and APCD are not enthusiastic about cooperative    M            (a) Appropriate coordination measures between
efforts, which could lead to ineffectiveness of safety component              traffic police and APCD have already been
and less than expected reductions in traffic accidents                        established
(b) Dialogue with provincial governments
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Unfamiliarity with the Bank procedures could delay                M            (a) MOC and Bank (headquarters and RMC) will
implementation                                                                follow-up project closely and provide timely
advice and support
(b) Project launch workshop will be held before
start-up of implementation. Workshop for
procurement has been held.
Counterpart funds not available in sufficient quantity or on time  N           (El) Ensure sufficient financial resources are
available through analysis of highway revenues
aid expenditures
(b) Dialogue with the provincial government and
MOC
Delays in timely approvals of procurement activities could lead to  N         (a) Agreement with APCD on detailed
delay in completion of the project on time, especially the tolling,           procurement arrangerment, particularly for E&M
telecommnunications and monitoring systems.                                    contract.
(b) Training of pertinent provincial personnel by
Bank and central government in the areas of
procurement and disbursement
(c) Use of experienced procurement agencies.
(I) Use of international consultants to review
design and bid docunients.
Interference of local people in acquisition of land could lead to  M           (a) Preparation of an executable RAP with
delays in implementation and resettlement cost overrun                         assistance from specialists who have worked on
FBank-financed projects.
(b) Implement most of the RAP before start-up of
construction.
(c) Increase consultalion with local communities,
especially regarding number, size and location of
tnderpasses, and culverts, temporary use of roads
by contractors; borrow areas, crushers.
(d) Provide adequate contingencies for land
acquisition and resettlement costs.
Overall project rating                                           M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Project Appraisal Document                Page 14                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project will include adequate measures to ameliorate potential negative impacts of environment, and
land acquisition and resettlement. However, the project will have a positive impact on livelihood
improvement and participation practices. Overall, the degree of controversy regarding the project is
expected to be low.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Agreements to be Reached with the Government:
The borrower will ensure that the proceeds of the loan are onlent to the Beneficiary (Anhui Province) on
the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with the Beneficiary bearing the foreign exchange risk.
2. Agreements to be Reached with the Beneficiary:
a Hefei-Anqing Expressway:
* APCD shall undertake, complete and furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, an analysis and
recommendation for the toll rates on HAE by March 31, 2002 taking into consideration the results of the
similar studies on toll rates conducted under other Bank-financed highway projects in China and the
experience with toll rates on major roads in China, and the results of the survey and study of user
responses to tolls.
* APCD shall undertake, complete and furnish by September 30, 2001 to the Bank for its review and
comments, a study of the planning, finance and operation of the toll highway network in Anhui, in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and take appropriate steps to implement the
recommendations of the said study, taking into consideration the comments of the Bank.
b. Maintenance of Highway Network:
* APCD shall, by March 31 of each year commencing in 2000 and ending in 2005, furnish an annual
highway maintenance report for the Bank's review and comments, which would: (i) indicate the length
and condition of each class of road; (ii) establish realistic targets for the current year, including an
estimate of the required physical works by class of road and the costs thereof; and (iii) measure the results
and the actual expenditures of the past year against the targets and budgeted funds thereof.
c. Highway Safety:
* APCD shall pursuant to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank: (i) by September 30, 2000
complete a study of traffic accident analyses; and (ii) by December 31, 2001 complete the blackspot
improvement works.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 15                   Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
d Institutional Strengthening and Training:
* APCD shall, by July 31 of each year commencing in 1999, furnish the rolling two-year training
implementation schedule to the Bank and shall carry out the training program as agreed.
e. Environment, LandAcquisition and Resettlement:
* APCD shall carry out the EAP and RAP for HAE in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and furnish any
proposed revision of these plans to the Bank for its approval.
* APCD shall cany out an EAP and RAP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank for any HMP subproject
which involves substantial widening, or land acquisition.
* APCD shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable il. to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of EAPs and RAPs
in respect of the HAE and HMP subprojects.
* APCD shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank: (i) an
annual environmental monitoring report starting January 31, 2000 and ending on January 31, 2006; and
(ii) by January 31 and July 31 of each year, starting in July 1999 and until two years after the completion
of all resettlement under the Project, internal monitoring reports prepared by appropriate agencies of
Anhui, and by April 30 and October 31 of each year, starting in October 1999 and until two years after the
completion of all resettlement under the Project, external monitoring reports prepared by an independent
agency acceptable to the Bank, in each case regarding the implementation and impact of the resettlement
activities during the previous six months.
f Reporting, Monitoring and Auditing:
APCD shall prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and submit to the Bank:
(a) a monthly progress report on the civil works of HAE;
(b) a quarterly progress report on implementation of all components of the project;
(c) by January 31 of each year commencing in 2000 and ending in 2005, an annual monitoring report in a
form satisfactory to the Bank covering all components of the Project and assessing the extent to which
various implementation and development objectives have been obtained in the course of project execution
and operation;
(d) within six months of the closing date of the Bank loan to the project, an implementation completion
report in a format acceptable to the Bank; and
(e) the audited accounts for the project, statements of expenditures, and special accounts by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 16                      Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. The preliminary designs are ready and the final designs for the first year
activities are also ready.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]  [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Lead p        Y    iro Kawabata
Acting Sector Manager: Jitendra Bajpai
Country DirectW-        Yukon Huang



Project Appraisal Document                              Page 17                                Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
China: Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and Risks
CAS Objective                                                                              (CAS Objective to Bank
*Help alleviate infrastructure                                                             Mission)
bottlenecks
*Assist local governments to
develop income-generating
programs in lagging provinces
Project Development Objectives      (See Annex 1-1) 8
*Provide more efficient, safer
and productive transport      *Average Daily Traffic (ADT)   eTraffic counts reports from  eMaintenance of roads is
services.                     on proposed and existing     AHAB.                           successfully carried out by
highways.                    *Reports on traffic; speeds along    APCD
*Average speeds on existing  main highways.                 *No unexpected natural disasters
highways.                    *Traffic accident reports from  occur (floods, earthquakes)
*Traffic accident rates on   Traffic Police.
existing highways.           *Provincial annualt statistics.
*ADT on highways included in
HMP.
eValue of goods transported to
coastal provinces.
Project Outputs                     (See Annex 1-1) *                                      (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
I. Hefei-Anqing Expressway is   1.1 A 152 km expressway     1.1.1 Monthly progress reports by   1. Government at Central,
constructed                   constructed by 2002.          supervision teams.             Provincial, and local levels
1.1.2 Quarterly prDgress reports   remains committed to project.
and annual monitoring reports.  2. Traffic grows at expected
1.1.3 Reports by fBank's       rates on toll highways.
supervision missions.          3. Toll highways attract expected
1.1.4 Disbursements to         traffic volumes from existing
contractors.                   parallel roads.
4. Political pressures do not
interfere with implementation
plans and thus adversely affect
quality of construction.
2. Existing highways improved    2.1 240 km national and   2.1.1 Quarterly progress reports
or rehabilitated (HMP).       provincial highways improved   and annual monitoring reports.
or rehabilitated.            2.1.2 Reports by ]3ank's
supervision missions.
3. Accident reduction program  3.1 Accident analyses and   3.1.1 Progress and final reports    5. Traffic Police and APCD are
established and operational.  studies carried out, and a pilot   for accident analyses and studies.  enthusiastic about cooperative
black spot program           3.1.2 Project quarterly progress    efforts.
implemented by 2002.         reports and annual monitoring
Ireports.                      _



Project Appraisal Document                              Page 18                                   Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and Supervision     Critical Assumptions and Risks
4. APCD and its related        4.1 854 persons for 1,119     4.1.1 Reports for rolling, two-year  6. Trained staff apply acquired
agencies/staff trained.        person/months from APCD and  training programs.               skills in the work place.
its institutes would be trained    4.1.2 Project. quarterly progress
within China and abroad by    reports and annual monitoring
2003.                         reports.
4.1.3 Reports of Bank's
supervision missions.
5. Equipment and spare parts to   5.1 Equipment and spare parts   5.1.1 Quarterly progress reports.
be procured under the project.    delivered by 2002 according to   5.1.2 Procurement reviews and
equipment reports.            disbursements by Bank.
5.1.3 Reports of Bank's
supervision missions
6. Cost recovery mechanism     6.1 Toll system implemented   6.1.1 Quarterly progress reports
established and operational    and operational by 2002.      6.1.2 Procurement reviews and
6.2 Study of tolls to be      disbursements by Bank.
completed 5 months prior to   6.1.3 Reports of Bank's
opening of HAE to traffic.    supervision missions.
6.2.1 Final report on study of
tolls.
Project Components**                                                                               (Activity to Output)
1.1 Contract civil works for   1.1.1 Progress of civil works  Bank reviews and clears related  1. Delays in implementation
HAE                                                          design and bid documents or      because Anhui is first time
1.2 Contract supervision teams    1.2.1 Payments to supervision    terms of reference and short lists   borrower from Bank in highway
teams.                        of consultants. Progress reports.   area.
2.1 Contract civil works for   2.1.1. Progress of civil works    Project progress reports and  2. Sufficient counterpart funds
HMP highways                                                 annual monitoring report.        available on time.
2.2 Establish supervision      2.2.2 Supervision teams are
mechanism                      operational.
3.1 Form a study team for      3.1.1 Payments to study team  Monthly progress reports and     3. Cooperation between Traffic
accident analyses and studies                                study progress report            Police and APCD
3.2 Contract civil works for   3.2.1 Progress of civil works
black spots improvement
4.1 Develop two-year training  4.1.1 Number of persons       Quarterly progress report        4. Delay of approval for the
rolling programs.             trained                                                         proposed programs from MOF
and MOC
5.1 Revise/update lists of     5.1 Payments to suppliers     Quarterly Progress Reports       5. Timely approval by
equipment.                                                                                    Provincial and Central
5.2 Prepare specifications and                                                                governments
bid documents
5.3 Sign and execute equipment
supply contracts.
6.1 Contract supply and        6.1 Payments to contractor and   Progress reports              6. Timely approval by
installation of E&M facilities  progress of works                                             Provincial/Central governments
of the E&M contract
** It would be voluminous to list all the project components and inputs. What is shown in this section represents some of the key activities. See
Annex 5 for the main steps in procurement and implementation of the main highways (civil works, supply and installation of electrical and
mechanical works, and supervision of construction).



Project Appraisal Document                             Page 19                             Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 1-1
Key Perfornance Indicators
a) Development Indicators
2003
Attainment of                Monitoring                 1998          2001       Benchmark         2006
Project Objectives              Indicators              Baseline     Benchmark   (1st year of    Benchmark
operation)
* Provide more efficient,   * ADT on HAE (veh./day)
safer and productive     Hefei-Susan line                                             9,730           14,850
transport services       Susan-line-Mayan                                             6,540            9,950
Mayan-Gezidun                                               6,860            10,490
Gezidun-Wuheng                                               5,850            8,930
Wuheng-Zongpu                                                8,700           13,290
a ADT on Existing N.R. 206
(veh./day)
Hefei-Susan line                12,200        15,120        6,390            7,820
Susan-line-Mayan                 7,600         9,380        3,360            4,100
Mayan-Gezidun                    8,460        10,460        4,260            5,230
Gezidun-Wuheng                   7,720         9,560        4,380            5,360
Wuheng-Zongpu                   11,480        14,220        6,520            7,970
* ADT Speed on Existing N.R.
206 kn/hr)
Hefei-Susan line                 54             48            64              62
Susan-line-Mayan                 35             33           40               39
Mayan-Gezidun                    34             33            38              37
Gezidun-Wuheng                   35             33           38               37
Wuheng-Zongpu                    55             50           64               62
* Accident rates on existing NR
206 (Number of accidents per 100
million vehicles)
Hefei-Susan line                 73.6           82.4         56.2            60.1
Susan-line-Mayan                186.2          198.6        156.5           161.2
Mayan-Gezidun                   192.2          206.3        162.8           168.2
Gezidun-Wuheng                  187.0          199.9        163.7           169.9
Wuheng-Zongpu                    71.5           79.7         56.6            60.5
* ADT on highways included in
HMP (veh./day)
S203 Luan                       3,030        3,240         3,570            4,100
S202 Shouxian                   2,840         3,050        3,360            3,850
G105 Nanzhau                     1,850        2,180         2,410            2,760
S316  Chaolu                    2,330         2,830         3,120            3,570
S202  Xiaohuai                  4,200         4,810         4,910            5,520
S315  Yangtao                   1,640         1,760         2,010            2,310
* Value of goods transported to
coastal provinces (million         2,634         3,653         4,418            5,713
yuan/yr)
Note: HAE   Hefei-Anqing Expressway



Project Appraisal Document                               Page 20                             Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
b) Implementation Indicators
1999        2000         2001         2002           2003            2004
ICR Year
% of civil works completed on      15          45           80          100                             100
HAE
% of highways               12          44           74          100                             100
improved/rehabilitated under
HMP
Highway safety: % of                         25           56          100                             100
improved black spots
Number of person-months of       550         886        1,040         1,075           1,119           1,119
completed training
Note: HAE = Hefei-Anqing Expressway



Project Appraisal Document              Page 21                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 2
Anhui Provincial Highway Prcject
Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$351.6 million (total cost of component)
Hefei-Anqing Expressway (HAE)
Construction of a 152 kmr Hefei-Anqinq Expressway (HAE) is the main component of this
project. The HAE is divided into two sections, one of 126 km between Hefei and Gaohebu (with a design
speed of 120 km/hr) and another of 26 km from Gaohebu to Anqing (with a design speed of 100 km/hr).
It would be common to two longer expressways (NTHS) whose construction is partly being supported by
the Bank. The total length of the existing road (National Highway No. 206) from Hefei to Anqing is 166
km. The highway standard is basically Class II except some sections with a Class I standard in urban
areas. Widening of the existing road from two lanes to four lanes has been implemented or is planned.
However, further widening would not be feasible because of the extensive side development within
several major townships.
The HAE will be operated as a closed toll highway. It will include 7 interchanges, six toll
stations, one service area, and one management office. The pavement structure will be asphalt concrete.
In addition to civil works, the HAE component will involve the supply and installation of electrical and
mechanical facilities (a tolling, monitoring, telecommunications, and lighting system)
Supervision of Construction
Based on the experience gained from on-going Bank-finamced highway projects in China, a
combined team of local engineers, technicians and other personnel and international consultants would be
set up to supervise construction of the HAE. The organizational arrangements f-or construction
supervision, as well as the Terns of Reference for the joint supervision team, have been drawn up by
PEO and found by the Bank to be adequate. The international supervising engineers would be integrated
with operational responsibilities into the supervision organization and would help establish procedures at
all levels of the supervisory work, including on-site inspections and laboratory testing. They would also
train local staff through formal training sessions and on the job. A total of 5 international experts for a
total of about 174 persons-months are envisaged for construction supervision of which 4 person-months
are for training and 5 person months are for contingencies, to be used as and when needed.
Project Component 2 - US$66.8 million (total cost of component)
1. Objective of Highway Maintenance Component (HIP)
The main objective of the HMP is to promote stabilization of the condition of the existing
highway network, by strengthening the seriously deteriorated pavement structures (improvement) and
providing overlays on some less seriously deteriorated section (rehabilitation). Given that the level of
traffic throughout the network is rapidly increasing, a secondary objective of most periodic maintenance
activities is to add to capacity by widening of the pavement.



Project Appraisal Document             Page 22                   Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
2. Selection of Highway Sections
The proposed HMP would include a total of about 238 km of national and provincial highways,
of which about 162 km would involve rehabilitation and about 76 km would require improvement. All
the works would include widening of the road pavement within the existing reservation width. The
selection of roads was based on a review of approximately 400 sections of paved road with a total length
of about 8,000 km. The review was based on the average value of Pavement Quality Index (PQI), a
measure which takes into account pavement roughness and damage, and the ERR, for each road section.
The PQI for each of the selected road sections is between 40 and 52, among the lowest (that is worst)
values recorded for the whole paved network. The selection also took account of the need for a
reasonable uniform standard of road section, geographic location and size of potential contracts.
3. Implementation
The road sections would be packaged into 10 contracts, with an average length of about 24 km
and a total cost of about US$ 50.5 million, of which the Bank loan would finance about 40 %. All the
contracts would be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, and undertaken
by contractors. A group would be established within AHAB to supervise implementation of the project
component and would be assisted by subgroups at county level. The latter would carry out detailed
investigations and supervise road construction within their area.
4. Monitoring and Performance Indicators
The average provincial PQI would be used as the monitoring index for this project component,
with higher level (improved quality) being expected each year. Projected monitoring values will be
estimated. The Bank and APCD would review maintenance activities throughout the network during
each year's supervision mission, and the results would be compared with those agreed in the previous
year. On the basis of achievements each year, the maintenance program for the following year would be
agreed, as would the projected average PQI. In addition, implementation of that part of the maintenance
program to be partly financed with the Bank loan would be monitored through the usual project progress
reports.
5. Study of Planning, Finance and Operation of Toll Highways
The objective of the Study would be to make recommendations for improvements to the present
methods of planning, financing, managing and operating expressways and other toll highways in the
province and for potential improvements to the institutional structure. On the basis of a review of current
practices in Anhui, and of experience in other provinces and countries, recommendations would be made
for modifications to the system in Anhui, so that the most beneficial results for the people of the Province
can be obtained from the development of High-Grade Highways, particularly Expressways.
The proposed study would be completed in a period of about 12 months. It is expected to require
about 100 person-months of input, with about 40 person-months being provided by consultants familiar
with the Chinese system of highway financing, the recent experiences of securitization of toll road
revenues and the use of infrastructure bonds. The remaining man-months are expected to be provided by
consultants with a knowledge of how toll roads are planned, financed, managed and operated in other
countries. At the conclusion of the study, a seminar would be organized so as to disseminate the
experiences of the study team to staff of HGHAB in other provinces. The draft TOR for this study has
been prepared and is available in Annex 2-1.



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 23                         Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Table 1: Summary of Highway Maintenance Program (Improvement and Rehabilitation)
Length   Class   Width    Cons-    Total       Disbursement      Pavement  EIRR    Congestion
Schedule
of      of      truc-    Costs                         Quality              Degree
Highway      (km)    Road    Pave-    tion    (million                         Index      %          V/C
ment    Type    RMB)   1999  2000  2001
(meter)                                 .          _
S203           40        II       12     Rehab.     80      27    28      25       50       29.2       0.99
Luan                   al)      (9)
S203           40        II       12     Rehab.    80       28    27    25         52       28.1       1.17
Shouxian               (II)     (9)
G105           30        II       14    Improv      68             37    31        46       22.1       1.08
Nanzhau                (III)    (7)
S316           46        II       12    Improv      52      26    26               41       29.8       1.09
Chaolu                 (III)    (7)
S202           60        II       14     Rehab.    115      32    45      38       40       22.5       1.27
Xiaohuai               (II)     (9)
S315           22        III      9      Rehab.    24       12    12               42       26.2       1.55
Yangtao                (III)    (7)
Total      238        -        -                419    125   175    119
Note 1: Values in parentheses indicate the current status.
Note 2: Above six highway sections require no additional right-of-way.
Note 3: Rehab. (rehabilitation) involves widening and strengthening of the existing roadway and overlay, while Improv. (improvement)
involves widening and strengthening of the existing roadway, modification of gradient, reconstruction of base course and
pavement.
Note 4: V/C stand for Volume/Capacity
Table 2: Three-Year Improvement and Rehabilitation Program - Proposed Contract Packages
Road        Contract    Construction     Start     End       Length   Construction    Cost       EIRR
Code          No.          Type          Km        Km         Km         period         Y         %
million
S203              1       Rehabilitation     0         20         20       1999-2001       43        29.2
Luan              2        Rehabilitation    20        40         20       1999-2001       37        29.2
S203              3       Rehabilitation     50        70         20       1999-2001       38        28.1
Shouxian          4       Rehabilitaion      70        90         20       1999-2001       42        28.1
G105              5       Improvement         0         15        15       2000-2001       34        22.1
Nanzhau           6        Improvement       15         30         15      2000-2001       34        22.1
G316              7       Improvement        20         66        46       1999-2000       52        29.8
Chaolu
S202              8       Rehabilitation      0         30        30       1999-2001       58        22.5
Xiaohuai          9       Rehabilitation     30         60        30       1999-2001       57        22.5
S315              10      Rehabilitation     0         22         22       1999-2000       24        26.2
Yangtao
Total                                                         238                      419



Project Appraisal Document               Page 24                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Project Component 3 - US$4.1 million (total cost of component)
General (Highway Safety Component)
1.    The existing highway safety situation is of concern to the Anhui authorities. In 1996, 2,721
people were killed and 5,424 accidents occurred on the Anhui road network. The 9.6 people killed per
100 million vehicle-kilometers is about 2 to 3 times higher than the rate of Western European and North
American countries. Taking cognizance of the seriousness of highway safety issues, the Bank engaged
the consulting services of an international expert group under Japanese Trust Funds. It defined a modest
highway safety component for inclusion in the proposed project.
2.    The Traffic Police and APCD are the main institutions involved in highway safety. To tackle
safety issues under the proposed project, the Anhui Highway Administration Bureau has established a
study team that has started gathering traffic accident date with the assistance of the Traffic Police. The
proposed highway safety program is a pilot program, primarily focusing on improvements to highway
infrastructure ("blackspots") and an analysis of the causes of traffic accidents.
Proposed Programs
3.     Experience in the highway safety component in the past Bank-financed highway projects has
shown the difficulties facing implementation when a joint action is required by the Traffic Police and the
Communications Department. Consequently, it was agreed that this project would include a relatively
small safety component primarily within the domain of the Provincial Communication Department. The
agreed safety component consists of:
(a)    a Study on highway traffic accidents;
(b)    a Pilot program for treatment of black spots; and
(c)    Provision of institutional strengthening and training.
Study on Highway Traffic Accidents
4.    Accident data is gathered and analyzed by the Traffic Police. Although APCD can get the
accident information needed from the police, the accident information received has been limited. It was
agreed that the Police will grant access to its accident database for the last two years so that the APCD
can analyze all the relevant data. TOR for this study have been prepared and are available in the project
file. The study activities will include:
*     the collection of accident data on highways by class in Anhui;
*      analysis of the factors contributing to accidents on highways, including those related to vehicles,
drivers, road conditions, pedestrians and the environment;
*     determine the relative importance of the various factors contributing to accidents; and
*     make practical proposals to reduce accidents on Anhui's highways, including the identification of
future studies to be carried out.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 25                    Anhul Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
5.    The proposed study is expected to be completed within 15 months (8 months for data collection
and analysis; 4 months for preparation of recommendations; and 3 months for finalization of reports. The
person-months required for the study are estimated at about 60 person-months including 15 person-
months for Chinese experts and 5 person-months for international experts. The total study cost is
estimated at about US$143,000 and 1,237,000 RMB.
Blackspot Treatment Pilot Program
6.     The foreign expert group and AHAB have agreed that priority would be given to "blackspot"
actions along National Road No. 206. It was further agreed that a pilot blackspot program would include
the following subcomponents;
- improvement of selected intersections;
- improvement of crest sections with insufficient sight disiance; and
- segregation of motor vehicle traffic from bicycles and pedestrians in urban areas.
7.     Six intersections along National Road No. 206 were identified to be improved. These
intersections will be reconstructed with a proper channelization. Four sections with insufficient sight
distance were also identified. In these sections, a median with fences would be installed. Furthermore,
three sections, where slow-traffic lanes will be provided on both sides, with fences on separating islands,
were also identified.
8.     The proposed treatment works are estimated at about 23 million RMB or' US$ 2.77 million. The
blackspot treatment work is expected to be initiated around mid-1999 and to be completed within three
years (around March 2002). After completion of the pilot program, the black spot. work will be continued
as a part of normal traffic safety work on a permanent basis. The personnel who participated in the pilot
black spot work will be responsible for the training of the relevant personnel at the prefecture level as well.
Institutional Strengthening and Training
9.     The Institutional Strengthening and Training component is expected to be completed within three
years starting mid-1999. In addition to training in the highway safety aspects, it is planned to purchase a
rescue vehicle for each branch bureau and to install communication facilities connecting the AHAB
headquarters and its branch bureaus. The estimated cost for this IST component is US$ 206,000 including
US$ 180,000 for purchase of equipment.
Project Component 4 - US$2.8 million (total cost of component)
IST components by organizations to be strengthened and the training subjects are shown in Table
3 and 4, respectively. The cost for equipment to be procured for IST is covered under the equipment.



Project Appraisal Document             Page 26                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 2-1
Draft Terms of Reference for the
Study of Planning, Finance and Operation of Toll Highways
Introduction
Anhui Provincial Communications Department (APCD) is responsible for the planning,
construction, operation and maintenance of national and provincial highways, including toll highways, in
the province of Anhui. To help in carrying out this responsibility, APCD has created a Highway Planning
and Design Institute to undertake planning and design of the provincial highway network, and a High
Grade Highway Construction Department, to manage and supervise construction of new High Grade
Highways (Expressway and Class 1 highways). In addition, an Anhui Expressway Company Limited
(AECL) has been formed to manage the operation of some toll highways within the Province. The articles
of association of the AECL could be interpreted to permit it to finance, manage and operate all toll
Expressways in the province, although they specifically mention only three Expressways either completed
or under construction. One of those presently under construction is the Gaohebu-Jiezidan Expressway,
which will be a continuation of the Hefei-Gaohebu Expressway that is being partly financed by a loan
from the World Bank.
Other highways in the province are financed and maintained using revenues from the Highway
Maintenance Fund, with its revenue coming from the Road Maintenance Charge, other user charges as
well as from allocations from MOC/MOF. Revenues of the Fund are used to finance new construction,
improvements, and periodic and routine maintenance.
There are several different ways to plan, finance, construct and operate a provincial highway
network. It is becoming standard practice in China for toll highways to be managed in a different way to
the other classes of road. In some Provinces a High Grade Highway Administration Bureau, with
responsibilities for construction, maintenance and operation of all high-grade highways had been created
from a previous High-Grade Highway Construction Bureau. In other provinces, including Anhui, an
Expressway Company has been created with the function of designing, financing, constructing and
operating some, but not necessarily all, toll highways in the province. This second institutional structure
has great potential for attracting extemal finance for the construction of those new highways that can
generate sufficient toll revenues to provide an adequate financial return on investment.
Scope of Work
The objective of the study is to analyze how the most beneficial results for the people of the
Province can be obtained from the development of High-Grade Highways, particularly Expressways.
This study will include reviews and/or analyses of:
1) altemative methods of highway planning, and of determining which highway projects should be
implemented, and which of these highways should be classified as high grade and/or toll highways. The
analysis should take particular account of the proposals included in the revised Study of Prioritization of
Highway Investments and Improving Feasibility Study Methodologies, recently completed by Rust
PPK/Travers Morgan for the Ministry of Communications, utilizing Australian Trust Funds;
2) the present method of financing and constructing new high grade highways in the Province. The
analysis should determine what changes should be made with a view to maximizing the length of new
high grade highway that can be constructed, without jeopardizing the construction and maintenance of
other highways. The review should cover the various methods presently used in China for the financing of
High-Grade Highways and urban Expressways, particularly those that make use of private sources of



Project Appraisal Document              Page 27                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
finance, both domestic and foreign. Financing schemes that have not so far been used for highways in
China, including build-operate-transfer (BOT) schemes and their variations, should also be considered.
The analysis should also take account of all recently completed studies on the subject of highway
financing, and take particular account of the financing needs of highways that are unlikely to generate
sufficient toll revenue to attract 100% private finance, whether debt or equity;
3) the projected revenues from all road user charges, including tolls, and taking into account proposed
changes in the method of determining and collecting Road Maintenance Fees. The analysis should take
account of the possibilities of increasing toll revenues, subject to nvot significantly reducing the benefits to
users of the highway network. The extent to which the Provincial Communicationas Department can
contribute to the financing of HGHs from its own sources, depends to a large extent on the revenues that
it can raise from road user charges and the other commitments for the use of these revenues. This study
will therefore make projections, in addition to those of revenues, of the potential expenditures that have to
be met from them, including but not necessarily limited to: routine and periodic rnaintenance; road
improvement and upgrading; contributions to the maintenance, improvement and expansion of county and
municipal highways; new construction of provincial highways; loan amortization.; other payments to
central government; research; and administration and management costs;
4) the present and alternative ways of operating high grade highways, with a view to maximizing their
benefits to the residents of the Province and achieving the highest level of operational efficiency and
ensuring adequate maintenance. Account should be taken of the role of the AECL in relation to the
operation of new toll highways, and its responsibilities relative to those of the APCD. Included in the
review of the role of the AECL, should be an assessment of its performance compared with High Grade
Highway Administration Bureaus in other provinces and private tollway companies; and
5) the institutional arrangements for high grade highway administration, with particular reference to the
relationship between the administration of toll roads administered by AECL and that of other highways.
The analysis should show how operation and administration the proposed Hefei--Gaohebu Expressway
would be compatible with the proposed institutional and financial relationship between APCD and the
AECL.
Outputs
The principal outputs of the study will be working papers on each of the main topics as listed
above, and a final report that provides a summary of their findings and draws conclusions and
recommendations taking them as a whole. A draft of the final report should be submitted to APCD and
the World Bank for review and comment. All Working Papers and required reports should be written in
Chinese and English and be made available to the World Bank during the course of the study.
Resources and timing
The study is expected to require about 100 person-months of input, with about 40 person-months
being provided by consultants familiar with the Chinese system of highway financing, the recent
experiences of securitization of toll road revenues and the use of infrastructure bonds. The remaining
man-months are expected to be provided by consultants with a knowledge of how toll roads are planned,
financed, managed and operated in other countries.
The study is expected to be started in the second semester of 2000 and the draft final report to be
submitted to APCD by September 2001. Comments by APCD and the World Bank will be provided
within thirty days of submission of the draft and the Final version of the report should be submitted
within a further thirty days.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 28                                              Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Table 3: IST Components by Organizations to be Strengthened
(US$1 = 8.3 yuan)
Training
_____________________________   In China             Abroad           Study Tours          Total Training        Total Equipment           Total IST
Organizations to be Strengthened    Person-          Person-             Person-              RMB          US$       RMB         US$        RMB   |      US$
months    RMB    months    US$          months    US$   |porion  I  portion         portion    poportio   n           Portion
Anhui Provincial Communications   18          90,000    5        40,000    3.5      28,000     90,000      68,000                            90,000      68,000
Department (APCD)
World Bank Loans Project           45        225,000    18      144,000    3.5      28,000    225,000      172,000    169,800     72,900    394,800     244,900
Execution Office (PEO)
Anhui High-Grade Highway          175        875,000    24      192,000    4.2      33,600    875,000     225,600                           875,000     225,600
Administration (AHHAB)
Anhui Highway Administration       72        360,000    6        48,000    2.8      22,400    360,000      70,400                           360,000      70,400
Bureau (AHAB)
Quality Control Center (QCC)        9         45,000                                           45,000                                        45,000
Quota Management Center (QMC)       3         15,000                                            15,000                                       15,000
Anhui Highway Survey & Design      76        380,000    39      312,000    4.2      33,600    380,000     345,600     606,800    261,100    986,800     606,700
Institute (AHSDI)
Anhui Port & Channel Survey and    18         90,000     4       32,000    0.7       5,600     90,000      37,600     448,300    192,900    538,300     230,500
Design Institute (APCSDI)
Anhui Transport Science and         9         45,000                                           45,000                                        45,000
Research Institute (ATSSRI)
Anhui Communications College       13         65,000     6       48,000                        65,000      48,000     490,800    225,300    555,800    273,300
(ACC)
Anhui Communications School         6         30,000     4       32,000                        30,000      32,000     333,200    143,600    363,200    175,600
(ACS)
Subtotal                          444      2,220,000   106      848,000   18.9      151,200  2,220,000    999,200   2,048,900    895,800   4,268,900  1,895,000
Seminar                            26        344,682                                          344,682                                        344,682
Lecture by International Specialist  4                           48,000                                    48,000                                        48,000
Construction Supervision          500      4,000,000    20       160,000                     4,000,000    160,000                           4,000,000   160,000
Administrationi charges                     1,660,000                                        1,660,000                                      1,660,000
Total               974      8,224,682   126     1,056,000  18.9    |151,200  8,224,682    1,207,200   2,048,900    895,800   10,273,182 12,103,000
Total in US$                                                                             S2,198,126            1,142,655              3,340,781



Project Appraisal Document                Page 29                       Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Table 4: Training by Subject
Subject                Training in China    Training in Abroad    Stud Tours
PIM      Yuan      P/M        US$       P/M       US$
Highway Planning                      26     130,000     10       80,000       2.1   16,800
Project Management                    84    420,000     20       160,000       2.8   22,400
Traffic Engineering                   36     180,000     12       96,000       3.5   28,000
Road & Bridge Designs                 52     260,000     30      240,000       2.1   16,800
Highway Maintenance                   50     250,000      6       48,000       1.4   11,200
Highway Operational Management        32     160,000     15      120,000       2.1   16,800
Engineering Geology                    4      20,000     2        16,000       0.7    5,600
Transport Science & Research           5      25,000
Highway Construction Equipment        22     110,000
Financial Management                  10      50,000
English Language                      25     125,000
Environmental Protection & Monitoring  28    140,000                           3.5    28,000
Construction Management               9       45,000
Resettlement                          10      50,000
Engineering Quality Control            3      15,000
Engineering Testing                    3      15,000
Road & Bridge Engineering              6      30,000
Training Management                    7      35,000     4        32,000
Teaching of Engineering Subjects       7      35,000      4       32,000
Teaching of Maintenance Works          5      25,000      2       16,000
Seminar                              26      344,682
Lecture by International Specialist    4                          48,000
Construction Supervision             500   4,000,000    20       160,000
Road Safety                          20      100,000      1        8,000       0.7    5,600
Administration Charge                      1,660,000       _              _
Total                 974   8,224,682    127    1,056,000       18.9  151,200



Project Appraisal Document                    Page 30                          Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 3
Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Estimated Project Costs
May 1998 Prices ($1.00 = Y8.3)
Project Component       Local      Foreign      Total       Local       Forei n      Total    Foreign Costs
-Y million                        --    US$ million    --         % of Total
A. Works
a) HAE
i) Civil Works (       1,072.0      950.6      2,022.6      129.2       114.5       243.7          47%
ii) Supply and            25.4       99.6        125.0         3.0       12.0         15.0         80%
Installation (E&M)
iii) Buildings            28.1       12.1        40.2          3.4        1.4          4.8         30%
b) Highway Maintenance     251.4       167.6       419.0        30.3        20.2         50.5         40%
c) Highway Safety (Black     11.5       11.5        23.0         1.4         1.4         2.8          50%
spots)
Subtotal                1,388.4    1,241.4     2,629.8      167.3       149.5       316.8
B. Supervision of           48.0        28.2        76.2         5.8         3.4          9.2         37%
Construction
C. Equipment (2)             11.4       64.7        76.1          1.4        7.8          9.2         85%
D. Training                   8.2        9.9         18.1         1.0         1.2         2.2         55%
E. Studies
(a) Planning, finance and     0.1        1.5          1.6        0           0.2          0.2         94%
operation of toll
highways
(b) Highway traffic           1.2        1.2         2.4         0.2         0.1          0.3         50%
accidents
Subtotal                    1.3        2.7          4.0         0.2        0.3          0.5
F. Fee                        0         16.6         16.6        0           2.0          2.0
Total Base Cost           1,457.3    1,363.5     2,820.8       175.7       164.2       339.9
Physical Contingencies    143.6      127.0       270.6         17.3       15.3         32.6
Price Contingencies       303.0      151.8       454.8         36.5       18.3         54.8
LandAcquisitionand         221.0         -         221.0        26.6         -           26.6
Resettlement
Total Project Cost        2,124.8    1,642.4      3,767.2      256.1       197.8       453.9
(1) Does not include Y77.2 million in taxes and duties.
(2) Does not include Y24.8 million in taxes and duties.
(3) Does not include interest and commitment charges on Bank's Loan during construction, estimated at about Y261.8 million.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 31                       Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 4
Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Financing Plan
($ million)
Province   Central Government   World Bank     Total
A. Works
(a) HAE
Civil Works                       50.1            76.9            116.7       243.7
Supply and Installation (E&M)      3.0             -               12.0        15.0
Buildings                          3.4             -                1.4         4.8
(b) Highway Maintenance              30.3             -               20.2        50.5
(c) Highway Safety (Black spots)      1.4             -                1.4         2.8
Subtotal                       89.7            76.9            150.2        316.8
B. Supervision of Construction        5.8             -                3.4         9.2
C. Equipment                          1.4             -                7.8         9.2
D. Training/Technical Assistance      1.0             -                1.2          2.2
E. Studies                            0.2             -                0.3          0.5
F. Fee (Front-end)                     -              -                2.0          2.0
Contingencies                        53.8             -               33.6         87.4
Land Acquisition and Resettlement    26.6             -                -          26.6
Project Total                177.0            76.9            200.0       453.9
Percent of Total              39.0            16.9             44.1       100.0



Project Appraisal Document            Page 32                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 5
Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Implementation Program
This annex presents the implementation program for the various components of
the project. Table 1 summarizes the overall implementation schedule for the project as a
whole. Table 2 shows the implementation schedule for HAE; administration and maintenance
buildings; and electrical and mechanical works. Table 3 depicts the detailed implementation
schedule for the supervision of construction of HAE.
These schedules show the estimated time requirements for construction
activities as well as for preconstruction activities such as preparation of designs and bid
documents, prequalification process, bidding process, evaluation of bids, negotiations and
signing of contracts.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 33                                                      Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 5, Table 1: Implementation Schedule
1998                  1999                  2000                  2001                    2002                  2003              2004
GENERAL PROCUREMENT NOTICE
(12/16/97)
Works
'I. Hefei-Anqing Expressway
- Civil Works
-Supply and Installation (E & M)        1I=                            =_________-____
- Buildings                                           __________________=
2. Highway Maintenance
-First Package              1                  L-..
- Second Package
3. Highway Safety
- (Black Spots)                                   7                                                   _
Supervision of Construction
- Hefei-Anqing Expressway
Procurement of Equipment
- Operatn & Maint (HAE)                                                                                                       -
- Highway Maintenance                  f         I 7713
- Others
Training                                                                               -                                                                    -
Studies
- Plannin$, finance and operation
of toll highways                                                                                        m
-Highway traffic accident--
Prequalification/preparation of bidding documents/TOR
Bidding process/competition among consultants
Construction/supervision/delivery/execution of studies
Defects liability period



Project Appraisal Document                          Page 34                        Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 5
Table 2: Implementation Schedule for Construction of Hefei-Anqing Expressway (HAE)
A. Civil Works (15 Civil Works Contract Sections (ICB)
General Procurement Notice (UNDB)                                        December 16, 1997
Specific Procurement Notice and local advertisement                      February 16, 1998
Prequalification documents available for sale                            April 7, 1998
Last date to submit PQ documents by contractors                          June 5, 1998
PQ documents evaluation report and MOC review                            July 5, 1998
Bank review and no objection to PQ evaluation report                     July 30, 1998
Review bid documents by foreign experts and Bank                         June 30, 1998
Sell bidding documents to prequalified bidders                           August 1, 1998
Last date to receive bid documents                                       September 30, 1998
Bid evaluation and government review                                     October 10, 1998
Bank reviews bid evaluation report and no objection                      October 20, 1998
Notify successful bidders                                                October 25, 1998
Negotiate and sign contracts                                             November 5, 1998
Start construction                                                       December 5, 1998
Complete construction and start Defect Liability Period                  August 30, 2002
End of Defects Liability Period                                          August 30, 2003
B. Administration and Maintenance Buildings
Complete Preparation of Bid Documents                                    January 1, 2000
Bank review and No Objection of Bid Documents                            February 1, 2000
Invite Bids                                                              February 14, 2000
Last Date to Receive Bids                                                April 15, 2000
Bid Evaluation Report and Government Review                              May 15, 2000
Bank Review and No Objection to Bid Evaluation                           June 15, 2000
Negotiate and Sign Contracts                                             July 15, 2000
Start Construction                                                       September 1, 2000
Complete Construction and Start of Defects Liability Period              February 28, 2002
End of Defects Liability Period                                          February 28, 2003
C. Electrical and Mechanical Works (ICB)
Finalize bid documents and submit to Bank                                January 15, 2000
No Objection to bid documents by Bank                                    February 15, 2000
Specific Procurement Notice (UNDB)                                       February 16, 2000
Issue Bid Documents                                                      March 15, 2000
Last Date to Receive Bids (stage 1)                                      June 15, 2000
Evaluate Bid Documents                                                   September 1, 2000
Contractor Prepare Financial Bids (stage 2)                              September 15, 2000
Last Date to Submit Financial Bids                                       October 15, 2000
Bid Evaluation Report and Government Review                              November 15, 2000
Bank Review and No Objection to Bid Evaluation Report                    January 31, 2001
Negotiate and Sign Contract                                              March 15, 2001
Establish Letter of Credit                                               May 1, 2001
Joint Design                                                             June 30, 2001
Manufacture and Purchase of Equipment                                    October 1, 2001
Transport of Equipment to Site                                           January 15, 2002
Installation and Commissioning                                           October 30, 2002
Trial-Run of Systems                                                     January 31, 2003
Completion and Start of Defects Liability Period                         February 28, 2003
End of Defects Liability Period                                          February 28, 2004



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 35                     Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 5
Table 3: Implementation Program for Supervision of Construction of HAE
Specific Procurement Notice (UNDB)                       February 16, 1998
No objection of Bank to TOR, LOI and Short List          April 15, 1998
Issue invitations to consultants                         April 24, 1998
Last date to receive proposals                           June 30, 1998
Evaluation of the Quality (technical proposals)          J uly 30, 1998
Bank review evaluation report (technical) and no objection  September 7, 1998
Notify consultants on the opening date of the financial proposals  September 8, 1998
Opening of financial proposals                           September 22, 1998
Complete combined Quality and Cost Evaluation            September 26, 1998
Bank review proposal evaluation report and no objection  October 6, 1998
Negotiations with consultant and sign contract           O)ctober 20, 1998
Prepare training material by consultant                  October 20, 1998 - December 20, 1998
Train local staff                                        November 20, 1998- January 20, 1999
Start Supervision of construction                        January 10, 1999
Complete Supervision of Construction                     September 1, 2002



Project Appraisal Document                  Page 36                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 6
Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Economic and Financial Evaluation
Preface
1.    The economic evaluation of the project covers two project components:
(a) new construction of a 152 km Hefei-Anqing Expressway (HAE), and
(b) rehabilitation of six provincial highways (total 240 km) under Highway Maintenance Program
(HM).
2.     The analysis is based on updated data and projections of traffic, vehicle operating cost (VOC),
economic project cost and transport user benefits. The main inputs to and assumptions for the evaluation are:
(a) capital investment and maintenance costs, revised to reflect May 1998 prices;
(b) the benefit stream, also measured in May 1998 prices, comprising savings in VOC, travel time
savings through reduced congestion on the existing route (for the HAE evaluation), and
reduction accident costs;
(c) an assumed project life of 20 years, the capital investment period being 1997 - 2005,
depending on the road being evaluated; and
(d) full benefits start to accrue to the HAE in 2003, HMNP 2001 or 2002 (depend on the road being
considered).
3.     This Annex comprises four parts. Part I is the economic evaluation of the HAE; Part II is the
economic evaluation of the six provincial highways under the HMP; Part m is the overall economic
evaluation of the project, including HAE and HMP, and; Part IV is the financial evaluation of HAE.
PART I: BEFEI-ANQING EXPRESSWAY
4.     There are two major components of the proposed Hefei-Anqing Expressway (HAE): (a) Hefei-
Gaohebu expressway and (b) Gaohebu-Anqing expressway. For purposes of evaluation, the HAE been
further divided into five sections:
Sections                  Length of the    Length of the
existing road (kin)  expressway (km)
Hefei - Gaohebu expressway:
Section I Xiaoxichong (Hefei)- Susanline       46.00            34.30
Section 2 Susanline- Mayan                     27.00            26.70
Section 3 Mayan- Gezidun (Gaohebu)             62.00            64.88
Subtotal                             135.00           125.88
Gaohebu - Anging expressway:
Section 4 Gezidun (Gaohebu)- Wuheng            22.00            15.50
Section 5 Wuheng- Zongpu (Anqing)               9.00            10.30
Subtotal                              31.00            25.80
Total                                166.00           151.68



Project Appraisal Document               Page 37                   Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Justification for Investment - HIighway Expansion Plan
5.    Overview. Anhui is a landlocked province located in east central China, on trie west side of the
Yangtze delta. Its main outputs are agricultural and light industry products. The terrain in north and east
region of the province is plain. Mountains are concentrated on the west and south region. The Yangtze
River crosses the province from southwest to east, its flood plain influencing about 50 percent of the
province's land area. Downstream from the Yangtze River is the city of Shanghai and the East China Sea.
Hefei is the provincial capital city located in the center of the province. Anqing is the former capital city of
the province located in the southwest area, and a major port on the Yarngtze river. The proposed highway
would link these two largest provincial cities (Hefei and Anqing), by passing two local districts, Luan and
Caohu, where congestion inhibits traffic on the existing road. The twe cities and two districts together
represent over one-third of the provincial population, land area and aniual GDP output.
6.    Currently, China is planning to construct "five vertical and seven horizontal" main trunk highways
crossing the nation to promote highway sector as part of the long-term national development strategy.
Anhui is an important land transport hub for the eastern part of China, the alignment of one of the vertical
trunk highways (Beijing-Fuzhou expressway) and one of horizontal trunk highways (Shanghai-Chengdu
expressway) passing through the province. The proposed expressway is an overlap section shared by both
these national trunk roads.
Construction of Beijing-Fuzhou Expressway
7.    The total length of Beijing-Fuzhou (Fujian province) expressway would be about 1,800 km, and it
would pass through six provinces (Hebei, Shandong, Henan, Anhui, Jiangxi and Fujian). Construction has
already started in four provinces (Hebei, Shandong Henen and Jiangxi), with the planned construction of
400 km in Anhui at a cost of Y 12.2 billion (U$1.5 billion) to be in three phases, of which the proposed
project would include the first:
The Beijing- Fuzhou Expressway Construction Plan in Anhui
Section             Length                Cost       Financing
(kn)    Period    (Y billion)     Plan
Hefei- Gaohepu              126   1998-2003       3.9   Domestic/ IBRD
Bengpu- Hefei               104   1998-2001       3.2   Domestic
Xiaoxian (Xuzhou)- Bengpu   170   2000-2003       5.1   Domestic/ OECF
Total                400                  12.2
Construction of Shanghai- Chengdu Expressway
8.    The total length of Shanghai-Chengdu (Sichuan province) expressway is about 2,500 km, covering
four provinces (Jiangsu, Anhui, Hubei and Sichuan). The total cost is expected to be Y7.1 billion (about
U$0.8 billion) of which about 20% has already been spent and the proposed project represents a further
55%. The proposed project would provide the only missing segment in the Shanghai - Wuhan section. The
construction plan for the section in Anhui province is being implemented under the three phases and is
summarized as follows:



Project Appraisal Document               Page 38                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
The Shanghai- Chengdu Expressway Construction Plan in Anhui
Section             Length                Cost      Financing
(km)   Period    (Y billion)      Plan
Quanjiao (Nanjing)- Hefei   144   Completed       1.4   Domestic
Hefei- Gaohepu              126   1998-2003       3.9   Domestic/IBRD
Gaohepu- Jiezidun           170   1995-1999       1.8   Domestic
Total                440                   7.1
Level and Timing of Investment
9.    Given its important role to the provincial economy and in the completion of the two national trunk
highways, the proposed project has the highest priority in the provincial highway development plan.
10.   The existing highway between Hefei and Anqing is a Class II, mixed traffic, all-purpose road
without access control and a design capacity of about 7,000 vehicles per day. Motorized traffic on the road
has been increasing about 13 percent per year between 1990-1996 and by 1996 had reached about 6,800-
10,000 motorized vehicles per day throughout its length. Non motorized traffic (bicycles, animal carts, small
farm tractors etc) adds an equivalent of about another 2,000 motorized vehicles per day. Even with a modest
projected 7.5 percent annual growth in the next five years, motorized traffic in this highway corridor would
reach between 11,000-17,000 vehicles per day by 2003, the proposed opening year. This would exceed the
capacity of the existing road by more than 55 percent. An economic assessment of the optimum opening
year of the expressway shows that it is already passed, so the optimum timing is now to construct the road as
quickly as possible.
Hfighway Corridor Traffic
11.   Estimates of base year traffic were made on the basis of routine traffic counts and a comprehensive
origin and destination (O/D) survey that took place in May 1996. Projections of base, generated and diverted
traffic were made for 27 zones on the basis of a conventional growth model. A regression analysis was used
to derive a relationship between economic growth and road transport demand, that indicated a demand
elasticity of 0.60-0.75 for traffic with respect to GDP growth, with an r2 of more than 0.924. Based on the
expected continued but declining local economic growth, it is estimated that traffic growth in the project
corridor will be 7.5 per cent per year between 1997-2005, 6.0 percent between 2005- 2015, and 4.5 percent
for 2015- 2025. Traffic generated by the new expressway was assumed to increase to 19% of the basic
traffic level after ten years, but with no generated traffic for the first two years of operation. This is to allow
time for production patterns to adjust to the availability of the new road.
Annual Traffic Growth Rate
Car         Bus &       Average
Truck
Actual
1990-1996                26.5%        11.1%        12.9%
Projection:
1997-2005                 9.0%         7.0%        7.5%
2005-2015                 7.5%         5.5%         6.0%
2015-2025                 6.0%         4.0%         4.5%



Project Appraisal Document                          Page 39                         Anhuli Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Alternative routes and toll levels
12.    Alternatives. In the feasibility study, three alternative route alignments were considered, i.e. the
west alignment, central alignment and east alignment. Each alternative was compared on the basis of costs,
benefits, service to local cities and relationship to future economic development. The east alignment was
selected on the basis of least overall cost and without having any additional environmental or resettlement
consequences compared with the other two routes (details are available in the feasibility study reports).
13.     Level of the tolls. The proposed expressway will be operated as a toll road. The province already
has three existing toll roads in operation, so user acceptance of tolls is not expected to be a problem. The
level of toll needs to satisfy two objectives: (a) to generate sufficient revenue to service the amortization
payments of the Bank loan, and; (b) not deter potential users from the itoll road so that its economic
objectives are compromised. Since satisfying these objectives can be in conflict, the first requiring a high
toll while the second requires a low toll, during the project an analysis will be made of the optimum toll
level. Analyses already made show that a toll that would generate revenue to fnance loan amortization
would only reduce the economic rate of return of an untolled road by about 15%.
Traffic on the Expressway
14.     The new expressway is planned to become operational in 2003. Based on the information provided
by the O/D survey and the feasibility study, the diversion ratios were calculated by using financial VOC for
the road users as an independent variable, with the impacts of the level of proposed tolls on the new
expressway, the tolls on the existing road, travel distance, and experience from other recently Bank financed
expressways in China. The results of the potential diversion of traffic to the new road show that between 60
and 69 percent of the motorized corridor traffic may be diverted to the new expressway, depending on the
road section and year of analysis. Sensitivity tests with lower diversion rates show that the HAE would still
be justified with an average diversion rate of about 55%, a rate exceeded in all the toll highways so far
financed by the Bank in China.
15.     Generated traffic is assumed to be 10 percent of the basic traffic. Although there is an existing
railway line between Hefei and Anqing (177 kin) no diversion of traffic from the railway to the new
expressway has been taken into account. The railway is not congested and is not expected to become so,
with track utilization presently less than 20 percent. The mostly bulk freight presently carried by the
railway would not be attracted by its faster times but higher tariffs of the expressway (rail tariffs are about
11-14 Fen per ton-km compared with about 30 Fen per ton-km for road transport). The highway corridor
traffic forecast, by sections, is summarized as follows:
Normal Traffic, by Sections
Section I    Section 2     Section 3     Section 4    Section 5
Hefei-     Susanline-     Mayan-       Gaohepu-      Wuheng-
Susanline     Mayan        Gaohepu       Wuheng        Anqing
Existing road:
1995              11,237         5,510        5,721        8,232        12,248
1996              10,244         6,835        6,921        6,751        10,044
1997              11,368         7,081        7,880        7,189        10,695
2003               6,406         3,359         4,261       4,382          6,519
2005               7,400         3,870         6,919       5,059          7,527
2015              13,286         6,861         8,790       9,054         13,471
2025              20,837        10,610        13,715       14,150        21,056
Expressway:
2003              11,039         7,431         7,802       6,646         9,889
2005              12,729         8,549         8,988        7,665        11,407
2015              22,627        15,001        15,902       13,638        20,297
2025              35,099        22,930        24,535       21,178        31,516



Project Appraisal Document                        Page 40                         Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Economic Costs
16.    Financial costs have been converted to economic costs by the elimination of price contingencies,
interest payments during construction and taxes and custom duties on imported materials and by the
application of shadow prices. The overall average shadow price is 1.02 and the resulting overall economic
cost is 68% of the financial cost.
Economic Benefits
17.    The economic analysis includes benefits derived from: (a) VOC ( summarized as below) savings
on the new highway for normal and generated traffic, (b) time savings through relieved congestion on the
existing road, and (c) lower accident costs. The benefits resulting from the lower level of congestion were
quantified. The value of passenger time savings was estimated at Y 1.0 per passenger-hour, based on
updated values from a recent report on feasibility study methodology for highways in China (Rust PPK.
Australia Feasibility Study Methodology Report, March 1996). The same source was used for vehicle
accident rates on different classes of road. The benefits of generated traffic were calculated using the
standard demand curve analysis and an assumed linear relationship between demand and travel cost over
the relevant cost range.
Econornic Vehicle Operating Costs
(Yuan per kin, May 1998 prices)
---Good----- ----Fair-----_--Poor---
Flat    Hil    Mont.   Flat  i  Hill   Mount.   Flat  I Hill   Mount.
Hefei- Gaohebu
Small car               0.576    0.601    0.620    0.667    0.693    0.713    0.863   0.889   0.909
Small bus               0.975    1.157    1.306    1.279    1.486    1.655    1.636   1.824   1.993
Medium bus               1.537    1.785    2.000    2.069    2.370    2.615    2.727   2.990   3.234
Largebus                2.011    2.452    2.844    2.752    3.314    3.776    3.335   3.877   4.339
Small truck             0.980    1.225    1.409    1.086    1.327    1.508    1.327   1.538   1.749
Medium truck            1.223    1.507    1.791    1.445    1.776    2.077    1.746   2.077   2.408
Large truck             1.385    1.697    2.009    1.670    2.029    2.346    1.987   2.346   2.684
Tractor/trailer         2.977    3.927    4.748    3.414    4.444    5.311    4.064   5.039   5.933
Gaohebu- Anqing
Small car               0.592    0.618    0.638    0.739    0.968    0.790    0.957   0.986   1.008
Small bus               0.995    1.181    1.333    1.107    1.286    1.433    1.417   1.580   1.727
Medium bus              1.569    1.822    2.041    1.791    2.052    2.264    2.362   2.590   2.802
Large bus               2.046    2.495    2.894    2.307    2.779    3.166    2.796   3.251   3.638
Small truck             0.937    1.171    1.347    0.996    1.217    1.383    1.217   1.411   1.605
Medium truck            1.225    1.510    1.795    1.337    1.643    1.921    1.615   1.921   2.227
Large truck              1.364    1.671    1.978    1.560    1.896    2.192    1.856   2.192   2.508
Tractor/trailer         3.007    3.966    4.795    3.204    4.170    4.984    3.814   4.729   5.568
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
18.    Total costs and benefit streams, Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) and Net Present Value
(NPV), for each section of the expressway were calculated. The overall EIRR for the HAE is estimated to
be 25.6 percent with the following results for each road section. The variation in EIRR is almost
proportional to the variation in total traffic in each section of the corridor.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 41                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Economic Evaluation of HAE
EIRR (%)
Whole route                                          25.6
Hefei-Susanline                                 30.4
Susanline-Mayan                                 20.1
Mayan-Gezidun                                   25.2
Hefei-Gaohebu expressway                              26.1
Gezidun-Wuheng                                  26.4
Wuheng-Anqing                                   15.4
Gaohebu-Anqing expressway                            22.2
19.   The sensitivity tests show little change from basic evaluation results. The test with a zero value of
travel time shows only a small reduction form the basic value since a low unit value of time has been used
in the analysis. Similarly, the test with no generated traffic also shows a small reduction in the EIRR
because a low rate of generated traffic was assumed.
Sensitivity Tests on the Economic Evalualion of HAE
ERR%
Delay the completion by one year              22.7
Zero value of time                            23.4
Zero generated traffic                        25.3
Lower traffic projection                      23.5
Less traffic diverted to new road             24.5
Switching values                       % increase
Cost increase to reduce ERR% to 12%         224%
Benefit reduction to reduce ERR to 12%        31%
20.   The basic evaluation of the project, by section and on the whole, indicates that the selected
alignment is economically viable, and the sensitivity tests with respect to higher cost, lower transport
demand, zero value of time, zero generated traffic benefits and lower diversion rates to the new road,
maintain this position. The analysis of the optimum year for opening of the road showed that delaying the
completion by one year would reduce the EIRR by about 3 percent. In addition, the sensitivity of the
evaluation results to variations in the costs and benefits of the project indicate that the conditions for the
project's viability to fall below the minimum acceptable, that is, a NPV of less than zero by using 12
percent discount rate or an EIRR of less than 12 percent, are unlikely to occur. The benefits would have
to fall to less than 31 percent of those in base case with no change in costs, the costs would have to
increase to more than 2.2 times those of the base costs, or the costs would have to increase by 30 percent
and the benefits fall to 40 percent at the same time.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 42                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
PART II: HIGHWAY MANTENANCE PROGRAM
Selection of Highways and Its Traffic
21.   The HMP consists of six provincial highways, classified by APCD as among the worst roads in
the province (some roads with a worse classification will be rehabilitated before the project is
implemented). The main objective of the rehabilitation program is to upgrade existing provincial roads to
Class II or Class III standards where traffic is at least 1,000 ADT (in mte) and the road has not been
rehabilitated during the last 5 years. The total length of the six provincial highways is 238 km and listed
below:
Section    Name            Length
1.      Lu'an road         40 km
2.      Shouxian road      40 km
3.      Nanzhau road       30 km
4.      Chaolu road        46 km
5.      Xiaohuai road      60 km
6.      Yangtao road       22 km
Total                    238 km
22.   Since all six highways are located in the same flat or hilly area, the local economic development
and traffic pattern are quite similar. Based on the actual traffic levels and projected local economic
growth rates, traffic growth rates have been estimated as: 6 percent per year for most of the roads up to
the year 2000, 5 percent from 2000-2005, 4 percent between 2005-2010 and 3 percent thereafter.
Economic Costs and Benefits
23.   Financial costs have been converted to economic costs using the same method and factors as for
the HAE, with the following results:
Financial and Economic Costs for the HMP
(million Yuan)
Financial           Economic
1.    Lu'an road                   93.92               83.36
2.    Shouxian road                93.91                83.36
3.    Nanzhau road                 79.84                70.86
4.    Chaoluroad                   61.00                54.18
5.    Xiaohuai road               135.08               119.83
6.    Yangtao road                 28.04               25.01
Total                      491.79               436.60
24.   The principal evaluated benefits of the project would be reduced VOCs through providing a better
road surface, but the associated upgrading of road Classes would also result in higher traffic speeds.
Together these two effects would result in some generated traffic, assumed to be 5 percent of the normal
traffic.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 43                   Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
25.   The best estimates of EIRRs for the six highways under the HMP range from 31.3 percent to 43.3
percent. The overall EIRR and NPV for the HMP program are 37.6 percent and 828.6 million Yuan
respectively.
EIRR and NPV Summary for HMP component
NPV (12%)
EIRR (in %)        (million Yuan)
1.    Lu'an road                  39.6                 212.8
2.    Shouxian road               36.8                 184.9
3.    Nanzhau road                35.0                 130.2
4.    Chaolu road                 43.3                 143.7
5.    Xiaohuai road               36.8                 265.3
6.    Yangtao road                31.3                  36.8
Total                       37.6                828.6
Sensitivity tests
26.   The risks associated with evaluation of the HMP are that traffic will grow more slowly than
projected, that the civil works will be more expensive than projected and that the savings in vehicle
operating costs will be less than expected. All these risks were analyzed through sensitivity tests and the
evaluation results found to be robust to all of them. For the project component to be non-acceptable (i.e.
EIRR of less than 12 % or NPV of zero), traffic growth would have to be negative, or the civil works cost
would have to increase by more than 370%, or the vehicle operating cost savings would have to reduce to
about 30% of their expected values.
PART m: THIE OVERALL ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT
Overall Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
27.   The overall EIRR of the project (including HAE and HMP) )is 27.1 percent and the NPV is 4.56
billion Yuan.
Project Risks
28.   All sections of the HAE and all highways included in the HMP show acceptable and robust
economic returns. The province has rich experiences in construction and operation of expressway
projects so the technical risks of implementing the project are minimal. Physically, the only remaining
tangible risks are that prolonged delays may occur in the course of innplementation due to lack of
experience in international procurement procedures. This will be addressed through training and
technical assistance for the staffs in the early stage of the project.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 44                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
PART IV: FINANCIAL EVALUATION
29.   Since construction of HAE is the main component of the project which constitutes about 78% of the
total project cost and all six provincial roads under EHMP are toll free, the financial evaluation of the project
focused only on the HAE. The only project income will come from these tolls, which will be charged on
the basis of vehicle size (small passenger car, large bus, small truck, medium truck, large truck and
trailer) and distance traveled. The tolls are expected to increase about every five years to take account of
inflation, expected to be less than 5 per cent annually. Currently, the three tolled roads in Anhui province
use the same toll rates and the HAE would apply the same table. The projected tolls are:
Tolls (Y/Vehicle-km)
Small   Large   Small   Medium    Large   Overall       Average
Car     Bus    Truck    Truck    Truck   Average   Growth p.a.
2003-2010     0.30    0.60     0.30     0.60      0.80     0.52
2010-2015     0.53    0.95     0.53     0.95      1.24     0.84         7.1%
2015-2020     0.79    1.33     0.79     1.33      1.69     1.19         7.2%
2020 after    1.12    1.81     1.12     1.81      2.26     1.62         6.4%
30.   Two financial evaluations were made for the project. The first was to determine the rate of return
on equity for the point view of the Highway Agency and Central Government. For this evaluation, equity
of the project was understood to be the total investment cost less the debt, as a World Bank loan. The net
revenues were determined by subtracting the loan serving costs and road operating and maintenance costs
from the total toll revenue. The return on equity was calculated as the net present value of these resulting
net annual revenues, expressed as a percentage of the project equity. The second evaluation was of the
net cash flows of the project as a whole, taking into account the costs of other project components.
31.   The summary of financial evaluation shows that with the medium traffic projection, the return on
equity would be 12.8 percent. While the sum of the cash flows would be positive, for the first three years
there would be negative cash flows after allowing for operation, maintenance and loan repayments. Both
these results are very sensitive to the level of toll revenues and the costs of the project. Although the
expressway will generate enough toll revenue over the loan period to cover the loan amortization charges,
with a standard amortization schedule there will be deficits in the early years of operation (from 2003 up to
2005). The greatest risk on toll revenue is that the diversion from the existing road will not reach the
equilibrium level projected. If this should happen, a 10 percent fall on traffic, the return on equity would
be reduced to 1 1.5 percent. Similarly, if the construction costs increase by 10 percent, the equity would
increase by 16.2 percent as the debt (the loan from the Bank) could not be increased, so the rate of return
on equity would fall to about 11.3 percent. These results emphasis the importance from a financial point
of view of controlling construction costs and maintaining the project's revenue.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 45                   Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 7
Anhui Provincial Highway Projlect
Procurement and Disbursement Arranigements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in Table A. The procurement
arrangements for the project have taken into account the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credit" (January 1995, and revised in January, August 1996 and September 1997) as well
as the experience gained from previous Bank-financed highway projects. The documentation, for
procurement, which covers the prequalification of contractors, ICB and National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) for civil works, ICB for goods, and consultant services contracts has been standardized for
Chinese conditions in cooperation between the Chinese government atnd the Bank oni the basis of model
documents which would be used for all relevant procurement processes under the project. Where no
model documents exists, relevant Bank standard documents would be used.
Works. The civil works for the Hefei-Anqing Expressway (HAE) would be divided into 15 contract
sections. The electrical and mechanical works for HAE would be bid later during construction as one
contract. All of the above 16 contracts with a total cost of about $326.0 million would be procured under
ICB procedures.
The above contracts for the civil works would be bid on a slice and package basis; qualified firms
would be allowed to bid for more than one contract so as to attract international contractors and large
Chinese contractors. All contractors for all ICB contracts for civil works would be prequalified. The
General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project and the Specific ]Procurement Notice (SPN) for the
civil works and the consulting services required for the supervision of HAE were published in the UN
Development Business No. 476 on December 16, 1997 and No. 480 on February 16, 1998, respectively.
For the contract for the electrical and mechanical works for HAE, invitation to bid would be advertised as
specific procurement notices in the UN Development Business and/or well-known technical magazines,
newspapers, and trade publications of wide international circulation. Domestic contractors are expected
to be competitive for all civil works contracts under this project. Each contract for works estimated to
cost $ 50,000,000 equivalent or more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in
the standard bidding documents for works referred to in para. 2.42 cf the above-mentioned Guidelines.
Other works including buildings (estimated to cost about $6.1 million), highway maintenance
(with a cost of 64.1 million) and the highway safety program (with a cost of $3.6 million) would be
awarded following NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. These works would involve contracts
estimated to cost less than $10 million per contract. Since these contracts are small in value and scattered
throughout the province and would be implemented over a four-year period, ICB would therefore be
neither justified nor practical, but foreign firms would not be precluded from bidding.
Equipment. Generally, all contracts for goods and equipment costing more than $250,000 equivalent
would be awarded under ICB. All other items or groups of items covering minor maintenance
equipment, laboratories, research and environmental protection purposes estimated to cost less than
$250,000 per contract package, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2.1 million would be procured
following international shopping procedures on the basis of a comparison of price quotations solicited



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 46                     Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Bank Guidelines for Procurement. These quotations should
indicate the description and quantity of goods as well as desired delivery time and place. Domestic
manufactures competing under ICB would be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of
bids of 15 percent for goods, or the prevailing custom duties, whichever is lower.
Consultants. All consulting services will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Bank's
Consultant Guidelines Published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997.
Consulting services for supervision of construction of HAE (costing $4.3 million) would be procured on
quality and cost basis (QCBS). QCBS would also be used for contracts for training services each costing
more than $100,000. Single source selection would be utilized for contracts related to staff training and
studies costing less than $100,000 per contract in the case of firms and less than $50,000 per contract in
the case of individuals (Table A-I of this Annex)
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review procedures would be used for: (a) civil works contracts with an estimated cost of
$4 million (Y 33 million) or more; (b) equipment with an estimated cost of more than $ 250,000 per
contract; and (c) consulting services with an estimated contract cost of more than $100,000 for firms and
$ 50,000 for individuals. In the case of consultancy service contracts, all terms of reference and single-
source selections, regardless of the value-of the contract, are subject to prior review. Prior review would
apply to 98 percent and 85 percent of the total contract values of works and goods financed by the Bank,
respectively. For contracts below the above-mentioned limits, post-review procedures would be followed.
The sampling ratio for contracts not subject to prior review is 25 % for goods contracts.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C): Allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Table C.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs): Withdrawal from the loan account would be made on the
basis of SOEs for expenditures for: (a) civil works under contracts costing less than $4.0 million, (b)
goods under contracts costing less than $250,000, (c) services provide by consulting firms under contracts
costing less than $100,000, and (d) services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing
less than $50,000.
Authorization, allocation and operation of Special account: To facilitate disbursements, a
Special Account would be opened with an authorized allocation of $15 million equivalent, the estimated
average expenditures for a four-month period.
Retroactivefinancing: Retroactive financing of up to $20. 0 million would be applied to
expenditures made after June 1, 1998 for construction of HAE ($19.0 million), consultants for supervision
of construction of HAE and training of local supervision staff ($0.5 million); and for purchase of
laboratory equipment ($0.5 million).



Project Appraisal Document                     Page 47                      Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 7
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                     Total Cost
ICB         NCB          Other       NBF          (including
Contingengies)
1. Works
HAE Civil Works                306.9                                               306.9
(138.4)                                            (138.4)
Supply and Installation         19.1                                                19.1
(E&M)                        (15.2)                                              (15.2)
Buildings                                     6.1                                    6.1
(1.8)                                 (1.8)
Highway Maintenance                          64.1                                   64.1
(25.7)                                (25:7)
Highway Safety (Black                         3.6                                    3.6
spots)                                     (1.8)                                  (1.8)
2. Goods
Equipment                        8.7                     2.1                        10.8
(8.7)                   (0.4)                      (9.1)
3. Services
Supervision of                                           11.6                       11.6
Construction (c)                                      (4.3)                       (4.3)
Training                                                 2.6                         2.6
(1.4)                      (1.4)
4. Studies
Planning, finance and                                     0.2                        0.2
operation                                              (0.2)                      (0.2)
Highway traffic accidents                                 0.3                        0.3
(0.1)                      (0.1)
5. Fee (Front-end)                                          2.0                        2.0
(2.0)                      (2.0)
6. Land Acquisition and                                                   26.6        26.6
Resettlement
Total                          334.7         73.8        18.8          26.6        453.9
(162.3)       (29.3)      (!;...        (0)        (200.0)
(a) Other includes negotiated contract, international shopping, consultants, training and front-end fee.
(b) N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
(c) Selection of Consultants according to the Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
Notes: (1) Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
(2) All figures are rounded and include estimated physical and price contingencies but exclude the cost of
land acquisition and resettlement which is shown as a separate component.



Project Appraisal Document                       Page 48                        Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 7
Table A-1: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method                              Total Cost
(including contingencies)
A. Firms
QCBS                                           11.6
(4.3)
Other                                           2.6
(1.3)
Subtotal                                       14.2
(5.6)
B. Individuals
CQ                                              0.5
(0.4)
Total Cost
Including Contingencies                            14.7
(6.0)
Note: QCBS  =   Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   =   Quality-based Selection
SFB    =   Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS    =   Least-Cost Selection
CQ      =   Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other  =   Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines/
Commercial Practices, etc.)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 49                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 7
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category             (Threshold)             Methocl             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ million                                US $ millions
1. Works              More than 4.0                 ICB            16 Contracts
$326.0 million subject
to prior review
More than 4.0                 NCB            10 Contracts
$66.2 million subject
to prior review
2. Goods              More than 0.25                 ICB           7 Contracts
$8.8 million subject to
prior review
3. Services           More than 0.10 for            QCBS           Supervision Contracts
firms, more than 0.05                       $4.3 million, training
for individuals                             $1.4 million and
stLidies $0.3 million
subject to prior review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:               $407.0 million



Prqoect Appraisal Document                Page 50                   Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 7
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in        Financing Percentage
US$million
Civil Works
Construction of Hefei-Anqing Expressway    116.7      48% of total expenditures
Supply and Installation of E&M              12.0      80% of total expenditures
Buildings                                     1.4     30% of total expenditures
Highway Maintenance                         20.2      40% of total expenditures
Black spots improvement                       1.4      50% of total expenditures
Equipment                                      7.8      100% of foreign expenditures
for directly imported
equipment or 100% of local
expenditures for locally
manufactured equipment or
75% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Consultant Services and Training               4.9      100% of foreign expenditures
Fee (Front-end)                                2.0
Unallocated                                   33.6
Total                          200.0



Project Appraisal Document                Page 51                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 8
Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Resettlement Action Plan
1.    The Anhui Provincial Highway Project involves construction of a 153 km Hefei - Anqing
Expressway and associated structures. Acquisition of land is necessaryf for the project as well as
relocation and economic rehabilitation of people affected by land acquisition. About 16,466 mu of land
(2,530 households) would need to be acquired and 1,116 residential households (4,003 persons) will be
affected by the project. Out of these, 768 houses (2,758 persons) would need to be relocated. About 27
enterprises will be affected by the project, out of which 18, with a total work force of 434 would need to
be relocated. A detailed census and socioeconomic survey of the people affected by the project was
conducted in August 1997 by Anhui Provincial Highway Survey and I)esign Institute (APHSDI). Based
on this survey, specific categories of project impact were drawn up and detailed entitlement policy for
each category of impact was agreed.
2.    Compensation for all affected structure will be paid at the replacement cost of affected structures.
Affected houses and enterprises will be provided with alternative plots of land for reconstruction of
structures. All affected labor will be reemployed in the same enterprises after reconstruction and will be
paid a subsistence allowance for the duration of temporary unemployrment. Affected enterprises will also
be paid compensation equivalent to the net losses incurred by them for the duration of closure of business.
Compensation for land acquisition will be paid to the collectives, who will be responsible for
redistribution of land among the affected families. There would be no need to initiate non-agriculture
based economic activities since the residual land holdings in affected villages are sufficiently above the
minimum prescribed per capita land holdings (0.1 mu for vegetable land and 0.3 mu for crop land).
Temporary land acquisition will be compensated at rates equivalent to the productive value of affected
land. Allowance will be paid to the affected people for moving to resettlement sites, and for facilitating
transition to new houses and jobs.
3.     The resettlement program will be coordinated by the Lead Group on land acquisition and
resettlement, consisting of representatives from APCD, APHAB and ithe county magistrates of the five
counties affected by the project. Land acquisition and resettlement offices will be established in each of
the five counties and for Hefei City. Similarly, agencies responsible '[or land acquisition and resettlement
at the township and village level will be involved in resettlement implementation. Internal monitoring
will be carried out by the PEO on behalf of APCD.
4.    The total cost of the resettlement program, including physical and price contingencies is
RMB22 1.0 million (about US$ 26.6 million).
5.     The detailed implementation schedule for the resettlement program has been drawn up. The
specific compensation and relocation related activities, which need to be completed before construction
on a given section of the highway can be initiated, have been clearly listed in the RAP.
6.    The entire process of resettlement planning has been participatory. Census and socioeconomic
surveys were conducted with the full participation of affected persons. The local township and county
governments were fully involved in the process of RAP preparation. Implementation will involve local
level institutions and the representatives of the affected people. In order to ensure that each affected
household is fully informed about the resettlement program, APCD wvill distribute resettlement
information booklets to them after the project is appraised and the Bank approves the RAP.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 52                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 9
Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Environment Assessment and Action Plan Summary
A. Background
1.    Environmental Assessment (EA) of Hefei - Anqing Expressway (HAE) was carried out by
Highway Research Institute, Ministry of Communication. The draft EA documents were submitted to the
Bank in April 1998 and reviewed by the Bank during the Pre-Appraisal Mission in May 1998.
2.    The draft final Environmental Impact Assessment Report (EIA), Environmental Action Plan
(EAP) and Executive Summary (ES) of HAE were submitted to the Bank in June 1998, and found
satisfactory.
3.    Regarding the Highway Maintenance Program (HMP), it was agreed that a Sectoral Environment
Assessment Approach would be applied. Accordingly, an Initial Environmental Evaluation (IEE) report
and an EAP of the HMP component under the project were prepared and submitted to the Bank in June
1998 and found satisfactory.
4.    During the EA work, the local people along the project route have been intensively consulted, and
their opinions have been reflected in the project design and environmental mitigation measures, as
appropriate.
5.    The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessment of development
projects in China were followed during preparation and evaluation of the EA, as well as the Bank's
policy. Major laws and regulations applied to the EA for the Anhui Provincial Highway Project are
presented below.
(a)    Environmental Protection Law of the Peoples' Republic of China (PRC);
(b)    Atmospheric Pollution Control Law of PRC;
(c)    Environmental Noise Control Law of PRC;
(d)    Water Pollution Control Law of PRC;
(e)    Cultural Relics Protection Law of PRC;
(f)    Circular on Strengthening Environmental Impact Assessment Management for
Construction Projects Financed by International Financial Organizations (June
1993).
6.    The scope of and the criteria for the EIA is presented below.
(a)    Noise: The EA covers areas within 200 m from both sides of the alignment
Class II noise standards (60 dB(A) in daytime and 50 dB(A) at night) are applied to schools and
hospitals. Class IV standards (70 dB(A) in daytime and 55 dB(A) at night) are applied to other
areas such as residential areas.



Project Appraisal Document                 Page 53                     Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
(b)    Air pollution: The areas covered by EA are the samne as those for noise.
Class II standards are applied to the project.
(c)    Ecological conditions (water, soil, etc.): The EA covers areas within 200 m
along the alignment. If there are any sensitive areas, study areas were extended
to cover these areas.
(d)    Target year for the predictions: In light of the construction schedule of the
project, environmental predictions are carried out at three stages: at initial
operational stage around 2002, at medium-term around 2010, amd long-term
around 2020.
B. Brief Project Description
7.     The Anhui Provincial Highway Project includes the following components for which
enviromnental assessments are needed: (i) Construction of Hefei-Anqing Expressway (HAE: 153 km);
and (ii) Highway Maintenance Program of about 240 km.
C. Baseline Environmental Description
8.     Natural Environment: The project area belongs to the sub-tropical moist monsoon climate zone,
with distinct four seasons. The average annual temperature is 15 - 17 "C and the annual precipitation is
about 1,000 - 1,500 mm. The proposed alignment mostly goes through hilly areas, where agricultural
activities are dominant. There are plenty of ponds and canals within the project area, which are mainly
used for agricultural irrigation. The EA ensures that there is no natural habitats and environmentally
protected areas along the project area. Also, no protected fauna and flora are observed along the project
area.
9.     Socio-Economic Situations: The proposed alignment goes through Hefei City, Liuan and
Chaohu Prefectures, and Anqing City with a population of around 20.7 million in total.
These areas are relatively rich in mineral resources such as iron, aluminum and other non-ferrous metals.
Also, there are tourist resources in these areas. However, these resources are generally under-utilized and
agriculture is major industry. Living conditions along the project area are higher than the provincial
average.
10.   Air and Noise Quality: According to the baseline monitoring, the current air quality (CO, NOx
and TSP) along the project areas are generally in good condition. Present acoustic environmental
conditions are generally good along the proposed alignment.
11.   Water Quality: The project area is relatively abundant with water resource. According to the
baseline monitoring data, water quality along the project area is generally in good conditions.
12.    Cultural Property: According to the currently available information, there is no cultural
property along the project area.
D. Potential Environmental Impacts and Their Mitigation Measures
13.   Major environmental impacts and their mitigation measures are summarized below. The
mitigation measures identified are reflected in the project documents,, as appropriate.



Project Appraisal Document                   Page 54                      Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Design Phase
14.    Alternatives Analysis: During the preparation of the project, three options were discussed from
an environmental point of view as well. The option 3 (west route) traverses through mountainous areas
and would bring potential risks of soil erosion. Affected areas of option 2 (middle route) are largest in
size among three options. For these reasons, option I (east route) was recommended as a proposed
alignment.
15.    Irrigation System: In order to minimize problems of interference on irrigation system resulting
from the project, a large number of culverts were included in the project design.
16.    Soil Erosion: Mitigation measures to minimize soil erosion were reflected in the engineering
designs, such as rational utilization of waste soil, proper design and protection of slopes, and construction
of ditches and other drainage structures.
17.    Noise and Air Pollution: Noise and air pollution mitigation measures are identified and
reflected in the engineering design of the project. These include plantation of trees, and installation of
surrounding walls. Several buildings will be relocated due to the significant noise impacts.
Construction Phase
18.    Dust and other air pollution, noise pollution, and water pollution have been identified as potential
impacts of the project during the construction phase.
19.    Dust and Other Air Pollution: Fugitive dust and other air pollution have been identified as
major environmental impacts during the construction work of HAE. Construction sites will be sprayed
with water to minimize fugitive dust. Appropriate measures will be implemented to minimize adverse
impacts of transportation of construction materials.
20.    Noise: Operation of heavy machinery and other construction activities will cause adverse
impacts on acoustic environment at the populated project areas, in particular, at environmentally sensitive
sites such as schools and hospitals. Strict regulations of schedule of construction works will be
implemented to minimize such adverse impacts. Construction works will be prohibited near residential
areas and other sensitive sites between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
21.   Soil Erosion and Irrigation System: In order to minimize soil erosion and vegetation loss, trees
and grasses plantation will be carried out, as appropriate. Temporary drainage system will be developed,
where necessary, to minimize soil erosion and adverse impacts on irrigation system.
22.    Water Pollution: Appropriate measure will be undertaken to prevent direct discharges of
polluted water from construction activities into rivers and canals. In case of bridge construction,
machinery and construction boats will be maintained in a proper manner to prevent accidental oil spills.
Hazardous construction materials such as asphalt and oil will be safely stored. Garbage and wastes from
construction activities including those from construction camps will be handled in an appropriate manner
to avoid water pollution and sanitary problems.
23.    Cultural Property: Construction works will be stopped in case new cultural relics are
discovered as a result of road construction or excavation activities. The local cultural property authorities
will be informed and a field survey of the site will be undertaken. Necessary mitigation measures will be
implemented, as appropriate.



Project Appraisal Document                Page 55                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Operation Phase
24.   Noise and Air Pollution: According to the noise predictions, the noise levels, during the first ten
years of the operation phase generally meet the standards. During 2010-2020, the noise levels exceed the
standards at limited sensitive sites. In order to mitigate such noise pollution, appropriate measures
including construction of noise barriers will be implemented. The predicted air pollution levels generally
meet the standards. In order to avoid future noise and air pollution problems, development of residential
areas, and construction of sensitive buildings such as schools and hospitals will be prohibited in the
vicinity of the highways.
25.   Other Pollution: In order to prevent water pollution from the service areas, appropriate
treatment facilities will be installed. Garbage at the service areas will be regularly collected and disposed
in a proper manner.
E. Environmental Monitoring
26.   During the construction and operation phases, environmental monitoring will be carried out to
verify the actual impacts on the environment, identify unexpected environmental problems at early stage,
and adjust environmental measures as appropriate. An annual monitoring report would be furnished to the
Bank by January 31 of each year starting in 2000 during the construction phase and for each of the first
three years following completion of construction.
Construction Phase
27.   Noise and TSP will be regularly measured at major sensitive sites along main highways in each
province. Regarding water quality monitoring, SS and oil will be monitored. Detailed information about
monitoring activities such as frequencies, sites, methods are included in EAP, respectively.
Operation Phase
28.   Monitoring items include noise and NOx at major sensitive sites. Waste water quality (COD,
BOD and oil) will be monitored at service areas. Detailed information about monitoring activities such as
frequencies, sites, methods are included in EAP, respectively.
F. Institutional Arrangements and Training
29.   The Environmental Protection Office of APCD is responsible for implementing environmental
mitigation measures for the project. Also, in each construction supervision team, one staff will be
assigned for environmental supervision at construction on sites. An environmental training will be
carried out in a timely manner, which comprises (i) overseas study tour/training for environmental
management and administration (3.5 person-months) and (ii) domestic training for environmental
engineering and techniques (28 person-months) including those for contractors of each section.
G. Environmental Aspects of HMP
30.   In the IEE and EAPs for the HMP, the following items are concisely described: (i) A brief
project description; (ii) Overview of environmental conditions of project areas; (iii) Potential impacts and
mitigation measures; and (iv) Environmental management.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 56                    Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
31.   A Brief Project Description. The HMP includes 6 road segments with a total length of about
240 km. No new road construction works are included in the HMP. Also, no land acquisition is
envisaged under the project.
32.   Baseline Conditions and Potential Impacts. All six road segments are located in relatively flat
areas with small hilly areas. Major industry in the project areas is agriculture. There are no natural
protection areas and no cultural property in the project areas. Since all the HIMP subprojects are small in
size of construction works, no significant environmental pollution is envisaged. Potential impacts would
be ordinary issues caused by civil works such as noise and dust pollution during the construction phase.
Those impacts are short-term and temporary.
33.   Environmental Mitigation Measures and Management. All necessary mitigation measures
such as strict control of noisy construction machinery and spraying water are identified in EAPs. APCD
will be responsible for environmental management for this project.
H. Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
34.   Public Consultation and Feedback. During the EA work, the local people have been
intensively consulted. The following approaches have been adopted for public consultation under this
project: (i) Consultation meetings with local governments/representatives; and (ii) Questionnaire analysis
of public opinion supplemented by interviews.
35.   Major concerns from the public are all resettlement-related issues. Those other than resettlement-
related issues include: (i) noise and air pollution during the construction phase and (ii) tree planting within
the project areas. Those comments are reflected in the engineering designs and the EAP.
36.   Information Disclosure: Final EIA, EAP and ES were submitted to the Bank in June 1998.
Those environmental documents were made public locally at Provincial Communication Department.
Following receipt of a letter of agreement on release from the APCD, those documents would be sent to
the PIC.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 57                   Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 10
Anhui Provincial Highway Projlect
Financial Management
APCD (the executing agency) will establish financial management acceptable to the ]Bank as below:
Accounting. The executing agency modified their accounting system under the instruction of MOF and
maintained the new system since July 1993. The purpose of the modiiication was to link Chinese
accounting system with general international accounting standard. The proposed project will be managed
by the new accounting system which has been proven adequate. APC:D has its own financial department
with the experienced capable financial staff. Their capability has beer proven through implementation of
similar project to the proposed project.
Auditing. APCD will be audited by the Provincial Auditing Bureau under the administration of State
Audit Administration (SAA). Anhui Province have been experienced in auditing Bank-financed projects.
APCD has an Audit Division which will periodically audit financial situation of APCD. An auditing
report will include:
(a)  Project Financial Statements to oversee progress of the project
(b)  Executing Agency Financial Statements to ensure that the project is financially viable and
may warrant continued funding
(c)  Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) to verify that claimed expenditures were properly
supported
(d)  Special Accounts to verify that funds were properly disbursed for project-related expenditures
throughout
(e) Reports on Internal Control to report outlining any recommendation for improving internal
accounting controls identified as a result of a financial statement audit
Financial Management Reports. It was agreed that APCD will submit the following reports not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year following the format acceptable to the Bank:
1)   Financial Statements consisting of:
(a)  Statement of Sources and Uses of Fund;
(b) Special Account Reconciliation Statement, which will be the basis for replenishment;
(c)  Expenditures by disbursement categories; and
(d)  Project expenditure forecast for six months by activity.
2)   Project Progress Report (project implementation progress)
3)   Procurement Management Report for prior review contracts for goods, works and consultants'
services.
Although APCD has no experience in borrowing the Bank loan, Anhiii Province has good records in
complying the Bank's financial covenants.



Project Appraisal Document               Page 58                   Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 11
Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned              Actual
(At draft PAD stage)     (10/30/98)
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      220,000              173,900
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            10/26/1997          10/26/1997
Appraisal mission departure                    08/31/1998           8/31/1998
Negotiations                                   10/19/1998           10/26/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  04/15/1998             / /19
Prepared by: Anhui Provincial Communications Department
Preparation assistance: Japanese Trust Funds (review of designs and bid documents for civil
works and for E&M works, and Highway Safety)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Yasuhiro Kawabata                         Task Team Leader/Technical, Procurement
Robin Carruthers                          Sector Review/Economic Analysis
Han-Kang Yen                              Financial Analysis
Claude Salem                              Institutional Strengthening/Training
Takashi Matsumura                         Environment
Soichiro Seko                             Environment
Maninder Gill                             Resettlement
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                           Legal
Philip Daltrop                            Legal
Hyung Min Kim                             Disbursement
Xin Chen                                  Project Coordination, RMC
Malou Juico                               Task Assistant
Consultant who worked on the project included:
Shigeru Iwama                             Highway Safety



Project Appraisal Document               Page 59                   Anhwi Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 12
Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan, July 1998
B. Feasibility Studies
Feasibility Study Report (Hefei-Gaohebu Expressway), August 1997
- Volume I and II
- Attachment I (Drawings and Tables)
- Attachment II (Cost Estimates)
- Main Text (Anqing Linking Road)
- Attachment (Anqing Linking Road)
C. Resettlement Action Plan, May 1998
D. Environment (EIA, EAP, Summary)
- Summary of Environmental Impact Assessment Implementation, June 1998
-  Environmental Protection Implementation Plan, June 1998
- Environmental Assessment Statement, June 1998
E. Institutional Strengthening and Training, February 1998
F. Economic and Financial Report
- Report of Economic/Financial Evaluation and Evaluation of the Project, Dec. 1998
- Further Information on Economic Evaluation, Dec. 1998
- Revised Traffic Projections, Dec. 1998
G. Highway Maintenance Improvement Component, May 1998
H. Equipment Procurement Report, May 1998
I. Highway Safety Program, May 1998
J. Prospectus for Anhui Expressway Company Limited, November 1997
K. Request for Proposals for Consultant's Services for Supervision of Construction of Hefei-Anqing
Expressway, March 1998
L. Prequalification Document for Civil Works, March 1998
M. Report on the Preparation of Highway Safety Component, November 1997
N. Review of Engineering Designs and Bidding Documents, Phase ] Final Report, November 1997
Phase II Final Report, June 1998



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 60                                                         Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 13
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in China
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                            disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                 IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 210
Active Loans
CN-PE-3539    IBRD43220    1998   PRC                                  SUST COAST RES DEV               100.00        0.00             0.00        100.00          .84       0.00
CN-PE-3566    IDA30750       1998                                      BASIC HLTH SERVICES                0.00       85.00             0.00         83.57        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-35698   IBRD43500    1998   PRC                                  HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.             300.00        0.00             0.00        300.00        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-3591    IBRD43090    1998   PRC                                  STATE FARMS COMMERCI             150.00        0.00             0.00        150.00        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-3606    IBRD43040    1998   GOC                                  ENERGY CONSERVATION               63.00        0.00             0.00         63.00          .64       0.00
CN-PE-3614    IBRD43290    1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN            GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP             200.00        0.00             0.00        200.00        3.04        0.00
CN-PE-3619    IBRD43280    1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE                  2ND INLAND WATERWAYS             123.00        0.00             0.00        123.00        8.00        0.00
CN-PE-36414   IBRD43480    1998   CHINA                                GUANGXI URBAN ENV.                72.00        0.00             0.00         72.00        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-36414   IDA30970       1998   CHINA                              GUANGXI URBAN ENV.                 0.00       20.00             0.00         19.76        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-36949   IBRD43270    1998   PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA            NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                  250.00        0.00             0.00        250.00        5.00        0.00
CN-PE-40185   IBRD42370    1998   PRC                                  SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT              95.00        0.00             0.00         95.00       12.20        0.00
CN-PE-45788   IBRD43560    1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN            TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY               230.00        0.00             0.00        230.00         9.07       0.00
CN-PE-46563   IBRD43410    1998   PRC                                  TARIM BASIN II                    90.00        0.00             0.00         90.00        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-46563   IDA30930       1998   PRC                                TARIM BASIN II                     0.00       60.00             0.00         59.16        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-46952   IBRD43250    1998   PRC                                  FOREST. DEV. POOR AR             100.00        0.00             0.00        100.00        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-46952   IDAN0390       1998   PRC                                FOREST. DEV. POOR AR               0.00      100.00             0.00         98.56        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-49700   IBRD43540    1998   PRC                                  IAIL-2                           300.00        0.00             0.00        300.00        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-51736   IBRD43030    1998   GOC                                  E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR             250.00        0.00             0.00        250.00         0.00       0.00
CN-PE-56491   IDA30780       1998   PRC                                HEBEI EARTHQUAKE                   0.00       28.40             0.00         27.99        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-34081   IBRD42000    1997   PRC                                  XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II             230.00        0.00             0.00        204.83       76.49        0.00
CN-PE-34081   IBRD42001    1997   PRC                                  XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II             200.00        0.00             0.00        191.78       76.49        0.00
CN-PE-3590    IBRD41870    1997   PRC                                  QINBA MTS. POVTY RED              30.00        0.00             0.00         30.00       22.39        0.00
CN-PE-3590    IDAN0280       1997   PRC                                QINBA MTS. POVTY RED               0.00      150.00             0.00        134.05       22.39        0.00
CN-PE-3635    IBRD4063A    1997   PRC                                  VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ              10.00        0.00             0.00         10.00         4.73       0.00
CN-PE-3635    IDA28980       1997   PRC                                VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ               0.00       20.00             0.00         12.80         4.73       0.00
CN-PE-3637    IDAN0270       1997   PRC                                NATL RUR WATER III                 0.00       70.00             0.00         65.22        8.06        0.00
CN-PE-36405   IBRD41790    1997   PRC                                  WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA             400.00        0.00             0.00        344.78      140.77        0.00
CN-PE-3643    IBRD40990    1997   PRC                                  XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II             300.00        0.00             0.00        250.92       36.26        0.00
CN-PE-3650    IBRD41720    1997   GOC                                  TUOKETUO POWER/INNER             400.00        0.00             0.00        400.00       77.18        0.00
CN-PE-3654    IBRD41240    1997   PRC                                  HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2             400.00        0.00             0.00        370.43       63.76        0.00
CN-PE-36952   IDA29540       1997   PRC                                BASIC ED. IV                       0.00       85.00             0.00         60.12      -14.96        0.00
CN-PE-38988   IBRD41610    1997   PRC                                  HEILONGJIANG ADP                 120.00        0.00             0.00        101.02        2.62        0.00
CN-PE-44485   IBRD41970    1997                                        SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO              400.00        0.00             0.00        400.00       34.97        0.00
CN-PE-34618   IBRD3967A    1996   PRC                                  LABOR MARKET DEV.                 10.00        0.00             0.00          9.49       19.73        0.00
CN-PE-34618   IDA28000       1996   PRC                                LABOR MARKET DEV.                  0.00       20.00             0.00         15.20       19.73        0.00
CN-PE-3507    IBRD3933A    1996   GOC                                  ERTAN HYDRO II                   177.68        0.00             0.00         39.33      -36.25        0.00
CN-PE-3507    IBRD3933B    1996   GOC                                  ERTAN HYDRO II                    88.84        0.00             0.00          2.32      -36.25        0.00
CN-PE-3563    IBRD40010    1996   PRC                                  ANIMAL FEED                      150.00        0.00             0.00        144.00       84.30        4.00
CN-PE-3569    IBRD39290    1996   P.R.C.                               SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI             260.00        0.00             7.75        127.54       17.65        5.31
CN-PE-3589    IDA27940       1996   PRC                                DISEASE PREVENTION                 0.00      100.00             0.00         74.19       49.10        0.00
CN-PE-3594    IBRD40280    1996   PRC                                  GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR               60.00        0.00             0.00         60.00       18.67        0.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 61                                                      Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                          _           disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                             IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed       Oriq   Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-3594    IDA28700    1996   PRC                                GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR              0.00      90.00            0.00         68.12       18.67      0.00
CN-PE-3599    IBRD40550   1996   YUNNAN PROV. GOV.                  YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT             125.00       0.00            0.00        125.00        6.58      0.00
CN-PE-3599    IDA28920    1996   YUNNAN PROV. GOV.                  YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT               0.00      25.00            0.00         16.02        6.58      0.00
CN-PE-3602    IBRD39660   1996   PRC                                HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO           125.00        0.00           0.00        125.00       66.37       0.00
CN-PE-3602    IDA27990    1996   PRC                                HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO             0.00      25.00            0.00          8.20       66.37      0.00
CN-PE-3638    IBRD40440   1996   PRC                                SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.            80.00        0.00           0.00         80.00       25.24      0.00
CN-PE-3638    IDA28860    1996   PRC                                SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.             0.00      20.00            0.00          9.02       25.24      0.00
CN-PE-3646    IBRD40450   1996   PRC                                CHONGQING IND POL CT           170.00        0.00           0,00        169.90       75.90      0.00
CN-PE-3648    IBRD39870   1996   SHANGHAI MUN. GOVT                 SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE           250.00        0.00           0.00        188.55       67.89      0.00
CN-PE-3649    IDA28340    1996   CHINA                              SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV             0.00     100.00            0.00         41.76      -14.88      0.00
CN-PE-3652    IBRD39860   1996   PRC                                2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY           210.00       0.00            0.00        163.13       52.79      0.00
CN-PE-36950   IDA28310    1996   PRC                                BASIC ED. POOR III               0.00     100.00            0.00         27.34      -21.89      0.00
CN-PE-40513   IBRD40270   1996   PRC                                2ND HENAN PROV HWY             210.00        0.00           0.00        186.11       39.12      0.00
CN-PE-3493    IBRD39106   1995   PRC                                INLAND WATERWAYS               210.00        0.00           0.00        107.00        6.19       0.00
CN-PE-3571    1BRD38976   1995   PRC                                RAILWAYS VII                   400.00        0.00           0.00        390.75      142.75       0.00
CN-PE-3585    IBRD37880   1995   GOC                                SHENYANG IND. REFORM           175.00        0.00           0.00        112.30       39.50       0.00
CN-PE-3596    IBRD3874A  41995   PRC                                YANGTZE BASIN WATER             97.26        0.00           0.00         43.62      -21.01      0.00
CN-PE-3596    IDA27100    1995   PRC                                YANGTZE BASIN WATER              0.00      110.00           0.00          8.46      -21.01       0.00
CN-PE-3598    IBRD37810   1995                                      LIAONING ENVIRONMENT           110.00        0.00           0.00         75.09       52.23       0.00
CN-PE-3600    IBRD3847A   1995   PRC                                TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME           194.99        0.00           0.00        155.68       40.92       0.00
CN-PE-3603    IBRD3773A   1995   PRC                                ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE           262.51        0.00           0.00        234.92      147.89       0.00
CN-PE-3603    IDA26420    1995   PRC                                ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE             0.00      75.00            0.00          3.89      147.89       0.00
CN-PE-36041   IBRD38736   1995   MOF                                FISCAL & TAX REF. &             25.00        0.00           0,00         25.00       39.14       0.00
CN-PE-36041   IDA27090    1995   MOF                                FISCAL & TAX REF. &              0.00      25.00            0.00         16.61       39.14       0.00
CN-PE-3612    IBRD37870   1995   PRC                                XINJIANG HIGHWAY I             150.00        0.00           0.00         74.93       51.60       0.00
CN-PE-3634    IDA26550    1995   PRC                                MATERNAL CHILD HEALT             0.00       90.00           0.00         28.13       12.03       0.00
CN-PE-3636    IDA26510    1995   PRC                                BASIC EDUC IN POOR &             0.00     100.00            0.00          6.93       -3.92       0.00
CN-PE-3639    IBRD39066   1995   PRC                                SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC            47.50        0.00           0.00         34.41       22.50.      0.00
CN-PE-3639    IDA27440    1995   PRC                                SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC             0.00     200.00            0,00         78.39       22.50       0.00
CN-PE-3642    IBRD3846A   1995                                      ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT            154.15        0.00           0.00         54.96      -16.09       0.00
CN-PE-3642    IBRD3846B   1995                                      ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT            215.67        0.00           0.00        146.55      -16.09       0.00
CN-PE-3647    IDA26540    1995   PRC                                ECONOMIC LAW REFORM              0.00       10.00           0.00          5.92        5.22       0.00
CN-PE-36947   IBRD3848A   1995   GOC                                SICHUAN TRANSMISSION           270.00        0.00           0.00        151.46      115.80      54.32
CN-PE-371561 IDA27560    1995   PRC                                 IODINE DEF. DISORDER             0.00      20.00            0.00          4.10       13.89     -4.36
CN-PE-3502    IDA25390    1994   MOH                                RUR HEALTH MANPOWER              0.00      110.00           0.00         33.08       22.7b       0.00
CN-PE-3504    IBRD37480   1994   PRC                                HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL           380.00        0.00           0,00         86.42       16.06       0.00
H'WAYS
CN-PE-3540    IDA26160    1994   PRC                                LOESS PLATEAU                    0.00      150.00           0.00         32.62      -31.01       0.00
CN-PE-3557    IDA26230    1994   PRC                                FOREST RESOURCE DEV              0.00     200.00            0.00         67.71       27.88    -17.45
CN-PE-3562    IBRD37270   1994   PRC                                XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE        460.00        0.00           0.00          1.00        -.65       0.00
CN-PE-3586    IBRD3711S   1994   PRC                                SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT           160.00        0.00           0.00         74.80       63.50       0.00
CN-PE-3593    IDA25710    1994   PRC                                SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP               0.00     205.00            0,00         38.86      -12.45       0.00
CN-PE-3595    IDA25630    1994   PRC                                RED SOILS II DEVELOP             0.00      150.00           0.00         45.07       14.39       0.00
CN-PE-3609    IBRD3716A   1994   GOC                                SICHUAN GAS DEV &              175.45        0.00           0.00        137.14       67.94       0.00
CONSERVATION
CN-PE-3622    IBRD3652S   1994   SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT            SHANGHAI MTP II                150.00        0.00           0.00         10.39       10.40       0.00
CN-PE-3626    IBRD3681A   1994   GOC                                FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY             80.33        0.00           0.00         60.53       15.19       0.00
CN-PE-3633    IBRD3687A   1994   GOVERNMENT OF PRC                  TELECOMMUNICATIONS             132.76        0.00          30.00         24.33       53.66       0.00
CN-PE-3641    IBRD3718A   1994   PRC                                YANGZHOU THERMAL POWER         248.16        0.00           0.00         81.24       40.60       0.00
CN-PE-3644    IDA26050    1994   PRC                                XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT          0.00      110.00           0.00         32.80        8.34       0.00
CN-PE-3473    IDA24750      1993   P.R.C.                           ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES             0.00      110.00           0.00         38.07       38.54       0.00
CN-PE-3509    IDA24570    1993   PRC                                CHANGCHUN WAT SUPP a             0.00      120.00          27.55         19,29       43.41       1.84
CN-PE-3512    IBRD3552S   1993   GOVT OF PEOPLES REP. OF C          SHANGHAI PORT REST.            124.26        0.00           0.00          4.63       22.52       1.28
CN-PE-3518    IBRD3530S   1993   PRC         .                      GUANGDONG PROV.                240.00        0.00           0.00          2.08       -7.94       0.00
TRANSPORT
CN-PE-3533    IBRD3572A   1993                                      TIANJIN IND. II                 82.68        0.00            0.00        49.46       49.12       8.29



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 62                                                      Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                      disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit      Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                             IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed       Orig   Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-3559    IDA24620     1993   PRC                              AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI              0.00     115.00            0.00         10.18       -6.50      0.00
CN-PE-3561    IDA24110     1993   PRC                               SICHUAN ADP                      0.00     147.00            0.00         11.05        3.03      0.00
CN-PE-3567    IDA24710     1993   PRC                               EFFECTIVE TEACHING S             0.00     100.00            0.00         41.88       41.52     13.39
CN-PE-3570    IBRD35810   1993   PRC                                RAILWAY VI                     420.00       0.00            0.00        103.94       95.95      0.00
CN-PE-3580    IBRD35820   1993   PRC                                SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON.            250.00       0.00            0.00         15.06        4.79      0.00
PROTECT.
CN-PE-3581    IBRD35310   1993   PRC                                HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT          120.00       0.00            0.00         11.34       11.36      0.00
CN-PE-3592    IDA24470     1993   PRC                               REF. INST'L.&                    0.00      50.00            0.00         21.23       21.83      0.00
PREINVEST(CRISPI
CN-PE-3597    IBRD3S60A   1993   PRC                                TAIHU BASIN FLOOD               88.65       0.00            0.00         56.20       56.80      0.00
CONTROL
CN-PE-3597    IDA24630     1993   PRC                               TAIHU BASIN FLOOD                0.00     100.00            0.00          4.74       56.80      0.00
CONTROL
CN-PE-3616    IBRD3606A   1993   PRC                                TIANHUANGPING HYDRO            196.60       0.00            0.00         70.87       46.93      0.00
CN-PE-3623    IDA24230    1993   PRC                                FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A             0.00      60.00            0.00         23.07       15.48      0.00
CN-PE-3627    IBRD3624A   1993   PRC                                GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P           325.00       0.00            0.00        325.00      349.07   -122.27
CN-PE-3627    IDA25180    1993   PRC                                GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P             0.00     165.00            0.00         40.50      349.07   -122.27
CN-PE-3632    IDA25220     1993   ROC                               ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS             0.00      50.00            0.00         11.78       12.44      0.00
CN-PE-3486    IBRD3406A   1992                                      RAILWAYS V                      33.73       0.00            0.00         29.05       29.07      0.00
CN-PE-3492    IBRD3412S   1992   GOC                                DAGUANGBA-RAINAN                28.88       0.00            0.00          1.13        -.72      0.00
CN-PE-3492    IDA23050    1992   GOC                                DAGUANGBA-HAINAN                 0.00      37.00            0.00           .42        -.72      0.00
CN-PE-3503    IBRD3462A   1992                                      ZOUXIAN THERI4AL POWE           26.78       0.00            0.00          8.98        5.66      0.00
CN-PE-3534    IBRD3471A   1992   PRC                                ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP            70.13       0.00            0.00         24.00       24.00      1.80
CN-PE-3544    IDA23390      1992   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN        EDUC DEV IN POOR PRO             0.00     130.00            0.00          3.88        -.63      0.00
CN-PE-3555    IDA23070      1992   PRC                              GUANGDONG AG. DEVT.              0.00     162.00            0.00          2.94       -8.61      0.00
CN-PE-3564    IBRD3415A   1992   BEIJING MUNICIPALITY               BEIJING ENVIRONMENT             32.90       0.00            0.00         26.30       24.76      0.00
CN-PE-3564    IDA23120      1992   BEIJING MUNICIPALITY             BEIJING ENVIRONMENT              0.00      80.00            0.00          3.63       24.76      0.00
CN-PE-3565    IDA22960      1992                                    SHANGHAI METRO TRANS             0.00      60.00            0.00          3.69         .68      0.00
CN-PE-3568    IDA23870      1992   R.O.C.                           TIANJIN URB DEV & EN             0.00     100.00            0.00         24.30       21.93      0.00
CN-PE-3587    IDA23360      1992   PRC                              RURAL WAT SUPP & SAN             0.00     110.00            0.00           .25       -2.23     -7.12
CN-PE-3624    IDA23170      1992   MIN. OF PUBL.HEALTH              INFECTIOUS DISEASES              0.00     129.60            0.00         38.88       32.61     30.10
CN-PE-3478    IDA22100      1991   PRC                              KEY STUDIES DEVELOPM             0.00     131.20            0.00           .73        -.87      0.00
CN-PE-3560    IDA22420      1991   PRC                              HENAN AGRIC. DEVT.               0.00     110.00            0.00          1.73       -4.96      0.00
CN-PE-3582    IBRD3337T    1991   PRC                               IRRIG. AGRIC. INTENS            45.05       0.00            0.00          2.37       -5.15      0.00
Total                                                                                           12,912.96   4,720.20           65.30    10,385.95   3,606.80   -153.14
Active Loans        Closed Loans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):             7,111.13           12,795.51          19,906.64
of which has been repaid:                17.33           2,312.86            2,330.19
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:            17,550.52           10,140.40          27,690.92
Amount sold                     :                0.00               0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :               0.00                0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed               :          10,385.95               15.77          10,401.72
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP),
a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements
in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Project Appraisal Document                                  Page 63                            Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
Annex 14
China at a glance                                                                8/28/98
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Asia &   middle-        - 
Chins    Pacific  income       Development diamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                     1,227.2     1,753     2,285                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atas method, US$)                      860        970     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billionts)                   1,055.4     1,707     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97                                                                        1
Population (%)                                          1.1       1.3       1.2
Labortorce (%q)                  1.1                              1.4       1.3      GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    7
Urban population (% of total population)                32         32        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        70         69        89
infant mortality (per 1000 rive births)                 32        38         36
Child malnutriton (% of children under 6)               16         16        ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  90         84        84
llliteracy(% olf population age 15+)                    19         17        19          -China
Gross primary enrollment (X/* of school-age population)  118      115       111
Male                                                 119        I11       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               117        116       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1998       1997
IEconomic ratioa
GDP (US$ biltions)                          148.8    295.7      825.0     935.0
Gross domestic investmenttGOP                28.4     37.7       39.2      38.2                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP             5.1      12.2      19,3      22.3
Gross domestic savings/GOP                   29.0      35.2      41.3      42.2
Gross nationa savings/GDP                    29.0      35,3      40,0      42.2
Current account balance/GDP                   0.2      -2.S       1.1       4.3      Domesticinve
Interest payments/GOP                         0.0       0.2       0.8       0.6                                   Investment
TOWsdebtlGOP                                  0.0       8.0      15.6      14.8         i
Total debt service/exports                    0.0       9.6       8.8       9.2
Present value of debtGP                         ..       ..      14.1        ..
Present value of debt/exports                  ..        ..      65.1
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987.97     1996      1997   199802
(average annual growlh,/
GDP                                  9.3     10.1      9.8        8.8         .         - x-China
GNP per capita                       8.3      8.5       8.8       7.2        ..Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       18.8     140       8,3                    -
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output: and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  33.2      27.1      20.2      19.7       T
Industry                                     42.3     44.0       49.0      50.8    20
Manufacturing                               30.1     35.5      38.1       39.5                       o
Services                                     24.5      28.9      30.8      29.5
Private consumption                          63.3      51.4      47.6      47.2             92   93   94   95   93   97
General govemment consumption                 7.7      13.4      11.1      10.5                -GDI -"-GDP
Importsofgoodsandservices                     4.5      14.7      17.1      18.2
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (S)
(average annual grwtvfh)
Agriculture                                   8.0       4.4       5.1       3.9    40T
Industry                                     11.0      13.9      12.1      10.5    301
Manufacturing                               12.8     13.3       11.7      10.5
Services                                     12.0       8.7       7.9       9.4    2         _
Private consumption                           9.3       8.8      11.9
General govemment consumption                 9.4       9.6       8.3                0
Gross domestic investment                    10.8      11.3       7.6       6.6            92   93   94   95   96   97
Imports of goods and services                22.5      12.8       8.8       7.2              -     Exports   I mports
Gross national product                        9.8       9.9       9.7       8.2
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                 Page 64                            Anhui Provincial Highway Project
Country: China
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1976    1986        1996     1997      Inflation (%)
(% change)
Consumer prces                                 .,      6.6       8.3       2.8   
Implicit GDP deflator                         2.6     4.6        7.0      3.9    15
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                     o                                  I
Current revenue                                ..    24.0       11.3      11.6            92   93   94   9s   96   97
Current budget balance                         ..      5.6       0.6       0.6             -GDP deflator ---CPI
Overall surplus/defict                         ..    -1.8       -1.5      -1.5
TRADE
1976    1986       1996     1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ mnillions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  30,942   151,073         ..   200,000
Food                                         ..   4,448    10,232
Fuel                                         ..   3,683      5,929               100000
Manufactures                                  ..  19,670   129,141                 .                    -
Total imports (cf)                             ..  42,904   138,828               100,000
Food                                         ..   2,002
Fuel and energy                               ..    504      6,877
CapRal goods                                  ..  20,415        ..                   0
91 92 9 94 5 9   9
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      66
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      69          .        ..                 Exports    X Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986      1996     1997      Current account balance to GDP raeo (%)
(us$ millions)
Exports of goods and services               7,383   29,583   171,700  207,800      6
imports of goods and services               7,125   37,472   154,100  167,200
Resource balance                             258   -7,889    17,600   40,600       4
Net income                                     0      176   -12,500  -10,200       2 i
Net current transfers                          0      255      4,200    10,200     :    I.
Current account balance                      258   -7,458      9,300   40,600          91   92        94   95  96  97
Financing hems (net)                           ..   5,410    22,340    -4,900
Changes in net reserves                        ..   2,048   -31,640   -35,700    .4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)              1.9      3.5       8.3       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  23,719   128,817   138,006
IBRD                                         ..    965       7,616    8,239                         A: 8,239
IDA                                          ..    774       7,579    7,830           G si,4              B: 7,830
Total debt service                             ..   2,973    15,756    19,933                                    D: 3,778
IBRD                                         ..      66       840       858
IDA                                          ..       8        73        81
:20,782
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..    155        248       255
Official creditors                           ..   1,165      4,359    2,315
Private creditors                            ..   3,693      6,454    3,835
Foreign direct investment                    ..   1,875    40,180   37,000
Portfolio equity                             ..       0      3,466        0
World Bank program                                                                             F: 6s,787
Commitments                                  ..   1,120      1,900    2,425     A- IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..    607       2,097    2,275     B- IDA    D - Other mulblateral   F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                         ..       0       364       377     C - iMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                    ..    607       1,734     1,898
Interest payments                            ..      75       549       562
Net transfers                                ..    532       1,185     1,335
Development Economics                                                                                               8/28/98



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29506
70\   80'                                            90'                      10'                      110'                      120'                       130
RUSSIAN  FEDERATION                                            /-
I-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
KAZAKHSTAN                                              r.              r            --                                            *                                   rn-g -
/-* -.                                                              ' ~    iK > HEiLONGiANG
UZBEKISTAN"'--                                                                                                                                                     HRI
URUMOMO                              GO       I                            A"                                        k0,
N' ~         ~         / iN  U                                                                                            _ r _/                JIL(IL    '
H    % - K  R G Y NZ \ _ j                         B ON \owoctd 'o   .s_                                                                                KC +-
-        R" PU ICKYRGYZ         r                                                                                                           0 ,t
--  R-~ EPULC         C>Tw                                                 I'                                                                                   
>$Az*/   v                                                         %, ) 5    ' ''7   _.                  , _ * _- /             s X <  )   \  ) @    L IA   NO)   DEM.                o&
)  S}4 * 5  X I N J I A N G    /      <    {                    1 * /                 OHHO'    -                                    PEOPLE'S
-                                 o~~~~~~~2'  ~~~~REP. OF
(.   1.v                   d 80'                                    .                  -1s_   75                                  I Z'O lJINjH > .I                            KOREA,
WoA, d - e>  oM'C M   Kg ,,,d ,T,,                     .                              T.            YINCH UAN O ^ ,   }  )  SHIUIA2HJANG   N E   i                              R E P.  O F
snyoFer/nGrm.t'ondion ~QINGHAI                                                         .       1                                                                              KOREA
/LogO/sts~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INN' ol/yhEi NY                                                                         /Ld ,AAZb        
GAIN.SIU                               LF  Detail See
k&5 "'"'                   TB~~~RID 29507
XLZANO  1      t                                                      L,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANS
X I Z A N G              _ ,,,yTZ4NXI   ,   HENAN                                                            A  I H E F   H    A                   30
SHANGHAI
30'                                                           SCHUAN                                 EpJlfl~AW
9 e            UHA~~~.SA n]                                  CHENGDU t*            e          ~          tAS          AGHeJ_   id
_ , , N * X   [>-%v'oO \              S H! /        iSHEJIANG
CHINA                                                               / L               A       NAN.              NANC 0         /
~~r~-  -1        CHAN9SM~JANGXI                   I
ANHUI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT                                         1                             UHV                                      LiA  BLO
NATIONAL TRUNK HIGHWAY SYSTEM                                      E                     ."  -                            'A
MAJORHIGHWAY                           0   SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                   TAWNMNDN(  '  2 A/WAN
COMPLETED                             9   PROVINCE CAPITALS               YUNNAN                N.,                           AGDONG
UNDER CONSTRUCTION                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                     . T        5          GUANGZHOU
PLANNED EEFORE 2005                 -   - PROVINCE BOUNDARtES                      / .'.  -          7       ANNING      ForLE.'M
PLANNED AFTER 2005                  -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES    Z L                                                 -To     HONGHKONG                                       20'
<  ~        ?    VIETNAM    %                           LAA,PS
'E        A.' \-'t"                    ZLnfind             0    100   200   300   400  500 MILES
5'   1 LAO PEOPLE'S  ?                       DH.LA.               0      200    40D    600    800 KILOMETERS
1 | DEM. REP .
THAILAND i            'N                         HAINAN                                   PHILIPPINES
OCTOBER 1998



CHINA                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN  -
ANHUI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT    ~                                     ENAICNALROADS-     *    FDRTN !"I                                                    2
ANHUI TRANSPORT SYSTEM                                                                                 M ~POICAUUS* . SONGOLA
0    SECLECTD CITIES
PROPOSES HEEFI ANQING EXPRESSWAY                   @    PLEUECPUL                                                  ,     O.-I         LpnAA
EXPRESSWAY UNDER PLANNINGPRVNCNTL-                                                                                           r
EXPRESSWAY CONSRUSCIED WITHGUCVERNMENITFUNDS                                                                                   'U.
* AIRPORTS
aUPRESSWAYXUNDERPCONLUTNUCTION WITHGOVERPLENT FUNDS 
r RIVERS
-.-PROSFNCE BOJNDARIES       --
LU5                            1~6        ~                     7
35-
DI                       I
34                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J TANG SU                    34
Gunyn-d 
r                 ~       ~~~Mnn5cho5 ,  
'O-~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~1.
3,V~~~~~~~~~
lu,                                                                                                           1,~~~~~~~~~~~S  o   05 Mq
O" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Unco                                       
Uhoullinri a         Di,n,- 
C  - ~ ~  ~       ~       ~      ~      ~       -
1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 19-
CT
Y.
J.~~~~~~~~~I
0'WFn-U  JogUino~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
Y;Uin~       -           r'ZHEJIANG
J I A N G X I
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
115-                    ~~~~~~~116-                                                         1 A.
L  . . r . .-                                   _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _     _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _    



IBRD 29508
SHANWONG .;
CHINA                                                                                                                 N,   l.,
ANHUI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                     504
HEFEI - ANQING EXPRESSWAY                                                                                                                              Sf
PROPOSED HEFEI - ANQING EXPRESSWAY IHAE)                      EXPRESSWAYS
EXTENSIONTOHUBEIBORDERtUNDERCONSTRUCTION)                     NATIONAL ROADS
L INTERCHANGES                                                     PROVNCIAL ROADS                                                                                              NMI }.
SERVICE AREA                                           - -   RAILROADS                                                                    f- /            
Y)  TOLL STATIONS                                              4   AIRPORT                                                                    -             VAT
RIVERS                                                                  E55 I  
LAKES                                                                          ',
v~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ 1, 115 20 25 30                                                                                                                                                   X
KIOMETEERS                                                                                                                    AN
(  C                                     /    T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To~~~~~~9S,9  C>          /            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b d.m
CgSghe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v                                                                                                                      -4 ,~ L 
>~~~~~~~~~~  S  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                 /                  K                                                              4.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bA;,
100 k.  'Ti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(201919



