Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4421 CHA
Project Agreement
(Anhui Provincial Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ANHUI PROVINCE
Dated March 11, 1999 
LOAN NUMBER 4421 CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ANHUI PROVINCE (Anhui). 
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Anhui agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS Anhui, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Page  2
Section 2.01. (a) Anhui declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and economic practices, and safety and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Anhui shall otherwise agree, Anhui shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) Anhui shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Anhui shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Anhui, a plan for the 
future operation of 
the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Anhui on said 
plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) Anhui shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan. 
(b)
Anhui shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by Anhui of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Anhui shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Anhui responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Anhui shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; 
and  
Page  3
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Anhui 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Anhui thereof. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Anhui Province:
Anhui Provincial 
People’s Government  
221 Changijang Road 
Hefei, Anhui 230001 
People’s Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Anhui may be 
taken or executed by the  Vice Governor of Anhui or such other person or persons as 
said  Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Anhui shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
Page  4
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Authorized Representative 
East Asia and Pacific
ANHUI PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower,  excluding 
goods manufactured in Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 
(c)
Dispute Review Board 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines. 
(d)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
Page  5
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works under Parts A.1 (b), A.2 and B of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$75,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,100,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$4,000,000 or more, and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedure for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for (i) Parts B and C.2 of the Project, and (ii) provision of training 
under Part C.1 of the Project, which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Page  6
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
A.
Resettlement and Environmental Action Plans
1.
Anhui shall:  (a) carry out the Expressway RAP, the Expressway EAP and the 
Highway Maintenance EAPs in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) furnish any 
proposed revision of such plans above to the Bank for its prior approval.
2.
For each of the highways to be improved or rehabilitated under Part A.2 of the 
Project which involves substantial widening or land acquisition, Anhui shall: 
(a)
furnish to the Bank for approval: (1) an environmental action plan, 
prepared in accordance with the policies and procedures set out in the Highway 
Maintenance EAPs; and (2) a resettlement action plan prepared in accordance with the 
policies and procedures set out in the Expressway RAP;   
(b)
carry out the resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in 
accordance with such resettlement action plan as approved by the Bank prior to 
commencing construction of such highway; and  
(c)
carry out the environmental mitigation measures set out in such 
environmental action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Anhui shall:  
Page  7
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the plans referred to in paragraph 1 above; and
(b)
prepare under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) by January 31 of each year, commencing in 2000, an annual environmental 
monitoring report during the construction phase of the Hefei-Anqing Expressway and for 
each of the first three years following completion of construction; and (ii) by 
January 31 and July 31 of each year, starting in July 1999 and until two years after 
the completion of all resettlement under the Project, internal monitoring reports 
prepared by appropriate agencies of Anhui, and by April 30 and October 31 of each 
year, starting in October 1999 and until two years after the completion of all 
resettlement under the Project, external monitoring reports prepared by an independent 
agency acceptable to the Bank, in each case regarding the implementation and impact of 
the resettlement activities during the previous six months. 
B.
Project Implementation  
1.
Anhui shall, by March 31, 2002 provide to the Bank for its review and comments, 
an analysis and recommendation of the structure of toll rates on the Hefei-Anqing 
Expressway, taking into consideration the results of studies on toll rate structures 
conducted under other Bank-financed highway projects in China and the experience with 
toll rates on major roads in Anhui and other parts of China.
2.
Anhui shall by March 31 of each year commencing in 2000 through 2005, provide to 
the Bank for its review and comments, an annual highway maintenance report which 
shall: (i) indicate the length and condition of each class of roads; (ii) establish 
targets for the current year including an estimate of the required civil works and the 
costs thereof; and (iii) measure the results and the actual expenditures of the past 
year against the targets and the budgeted funds therefor.
3.
Under Part B of the Project, Anhui shall, pursuant to terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank: (a) by September 30, 2000, complete a study of the factors 
contributing to highway traffic accidents; and (b) by December 31, 2001, complete an 
accident black spots improvement program.
4.
Anhui shall: (a) by September 30, 2001, complete a study on the planning, 
financing, management and operation of the toll highway network in Anhui under Part 
C.2 of the Project, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (b) provide the 
results and recommendations of said study to the Bank for its review and comments; and 
(c) thereafter take appropriate steps to implement the recommendations of said study 
taking into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon. 
5.
Anhui shall: (a) carry out the training under Part C.1 of the Project in 
accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank; and (b) to that end, 
provide to the Bank for its prior approval, by July 31 of each year, commencing in 
1999, a rolling two-year training implementation schedule.
C.
Monitoring and Reporting
1.
Anhui shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank: (i) a monthly report on progress in carrying out construction of the 
Hefei-Anqing Expressway, by the end of the following month, starting April 30, 1999; 
(ii) a report covering each calendar quarter, within 45 days from the end of the 
quarter, starting July 30, 1999; and (iii) an annual report on January 31 of each year 
starting in 2000, in each case integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph C, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of each such report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
Page  8
during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by March 31 of each year or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, each report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) (iii) of this 
paragraph C, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
