Report No. PID6606
Project Name                     China-Anhui Provincial Highway Project (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       CNPE50036
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Beneficiary                      Anhui Provincial Government
Implementing Agency              Anhui Provincial Communications Department
(APCD)
Mr. Li Yunduo, Director, APCD
Mr. Liu Xiaoyao (contact person)
9th Floor, Huayi
Mansion, No. 95
Shouchan Road,
Hefei, Anhui, China
Tel. No.   86-551-265-7273
86-551-263-2446
Fax No. 86-551-264-8049
Date this PID Prepared           October 7, 1998
Date Initial PID Prepared        February 24, 1998
Appraisal Date                   August 30 - September 2, 1998
Tentative Board Date             December 1998
Project Cost/Financing:          IBRD                     200 million
Central Government        77 million
Provincial Government    177 million
Total costs              454 million
Country and Sector Background
1.      Since the early 1980s, China's transport demand has grown much faster
than capacity and the ability of the system to deal with it. This has led to
increasing bottlenecks and delays, declining quality of service, and an
enormous backlog of deferred investments. Compared to other countries, road
network density in China is still very low, particularly when measured on an
area basis.  China has 19 linear km/1000 ha of road, which is only 3 W of that
of USA. Governments at all levels have therefore embarked on a major highway
investment and improvement program. By the end of 1997, highway mileage of
the whole China has reached 1.2 million km, of which high-grade highways
(motor vehicles only) have exceeded 19,400 km. The total length of completed
expressways counts for 4,771 km and the current highway network is accessible
to all county centers, 97 9 of townships, and 81 W of villages.
2.      At the central level, the basic strategy is to develop a National Trunk
Highway System (NTHS) for the exclusive use of motor vehicles (giving priority
to five north-south and seven east-west corridors). The Ministry of
Communications (MOC) has been developing the NTHS, consisting of 12
interprovincial trunk expressways spanning China and totaling some 35,000 km.



The Bank has already been involved in the construction of substantial sections
of these priority corridors of NTHS. At the provincial/regional level, the
strategy is to concentrate on network maintenance and the expansion and
improvement of provincial and rural road networks.
3.      According to the national plan for poverty alleviation of 80 million
people within 7 years, attention is being paid to expedite the highway
construction in poor areas. This policy agenda envisages that at least each
county center would be connected to a major trunk highway by a
collector/distributor road and that more than 85 W of administrative villages
would be accessible to highways. MOC has been recently restructured, but it
still needs to be strengthened to carry out its reformed mandate in matters
such as finance, standardization for planning, management and operation of the
NTHS. Local (provincial and municipal) governments are expected to continue
to mobilize most investment resources required (including access to private
investment and capital markets) and to modernize maintenance capacity and
improve cost recovery. They are also expected to further the development of
the road user services and road construction industry through deregulation and
promotion of competition, access to modern technology and better management.
The Bank has prepared a report (No. 11819-CHA dated February 1994), "CHINA -
Highway Development and Management Issues, Options and Strategies", which
provides recommendations for action in the foregoing areas which will form the
basis for future Bank Group assistance in the sector. Furthermore, the Bank
has recently issued a report (No.15959-CHA, April 23, 1998), "China Forward
with One Spirit: A Strategy for the Transport Sector", which provides
recommendations for action in the transport sector including highways.
4.      Anhui is a land locked interior province, with a level of economic
development far that of coastal provinces. Anhui with the capital in Hefei
covers a total land area of 139,200 km2 occupying 1.4 W of the total for
China, while the population (1995) amounted to about 60 million or about 4.9 W
of the national total. Agricultural and mineral extraction are the main
resources in Anhui. The provincial gross domestic product per capita was
2,696 yuan in 1995, only 71 W of the national average.    Lack of transport
infrastructure is one of the factors behind the depressed economic conditions
in these provinces.
5.      The national highway Route 206 runs parallel tot he proposed expressway
(HAE) with a total length within the direct influence area of 175 km. Traffic
volume on this Route 206 has rapidly increased since 1985. In May 1996, the
daily traffic ranged between 12,500 and 22,000 vehicles per day, having grown
at an average rate of 15.9 W in the previous ten years.     An OD survey
(conducted on May 1996) indicates that small passenger    (32.5 W ), and medium
trucks (28. 8 t) make up most of the traffic, and that the types of freight
transported are mostly mineral resources (coal, iron, and oil) and building
materials including cement. Under the current Ninth Five-Year Plan (1996-
2000), Anhui Province is giving priority to expanding, maintaining and
strengthening the existing national and provincial highway network.
Project Objectives
6.      The proposed project would have the following objectives: (a) relieve
traffic congestion and improve the mobility and integration of interprovincial
trade, commerce and tourism between the low-income province of Anhui and the
coastal region with its large potential markets and deep-water ports; (b) to
-2 -



improve and rehabilitate the existing national and provincial highways; (c) to
improve the safety of road transport; and (d) to strengthen the institutional
capacity of the Anhui Provincial Communications Department and its related
sector institutions, through provision of training, technical assistance and
equipment, in planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance.
Project Description
7.      The project include construction of two sections of a 153 km Hefei-Anqing
Expressway (HAE), one of 126 km between Hefei and Gaohebu (with a design speed
of 120 km/hr) and another of 27 km from Gaohebu to Anqing (with a design speed
of 100 km/hr). These sections would be common to two expressways whose
construction is partly being supported by the Bank, one connecting Beijing
with Fuzhou and the other connecting Shanghai with Chengdu. Other policy,
physical and institutional components are aimed improving the quality of
highway maintenance, traffic safety and administration in province.
8.      The proposed project would comprise:
(a)     construction of a 153 km expressway connecting Hefei and Anqing
(HAE).
(b)     a program to improve national and provincial highways.    This program
involves: i) Improvement and rehabilitation of existing national and
provincial highways (6 highway sections with a total length of 240 km); and
ii) Analysis of Planning, Finance, and Operation of Toll Expressways.
(d)     a highway safety component.    This component will involve; i)
Improvement of black spots (i.e. intersections, and improvement of sections
with insufficient sight distance) and ii) a Study of highway traffic
accidents.
(c)     Institutional strengthening/training of agencies/institutions
involved in highway research, planning, design, construction supervision,
construction, environmental monitoring, resettlement, highway safety,
operation and maintenance.
Project Cost and Financing
9.      The project is estimated to cost about $ 454 million (still tentative),
including land acquisition and contingencies.   The Bank loan of about $ 200
million would be onlent to Anhui Province.   It would be at the Bank's standard
interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans, with a maturity
of 20 years, including a 5 year grace period.   The Central Government (MOC)
would provide the equivalent of about $77 million, while Anhui Province would
provide the equivalent of about $177 million or the remaining costs of the
project.
Implementation
10.     APCD has overall responsibility for project preparation and
implementation. The Anhui Highway Administration Bureau (AHAB) is responsible
for the implementation of the HMP and the Highway Safety Program. APCD has
established a World Bank Loans Project Execution Office (PEO) and supplied it
with adequate staff, offices, related equipment and operating budget. It will
-3 -



ensure coordination among all the involved agencies and to affect the smooth
preparation and implementation of the project. Overall direction of the
project at the central level would rest with MOC. Since this would be the
first Bank-financed project to be implemented by APCD, MOC would assume a
coordinating role and provide more than usual technical support.
11.     The International Tendering Company has been retained as the procurement
agency for all aspects of civil and electrical and mechanical works of the
project requiring ICB and for equipment to be procured from abroad. The
supervision of construction of the HAE would be carried out by a joint
foreign/local supervision team. The project would be implemented during 1999-
2003.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
12.     The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for China (16321-CHA, March
1997 and Progress Report (R98-107, May 28, 1998)) supports China's strategy to
reduce poverty and to relieve infrastructure bottlenecks, by inter alia,
rapidly modernizing and expanding its highway system. In addition, the CAS
supports China's efforts to direct more of its investments to the interior
provinces to help arrest the rising inequalities between the prosperous
coastal and southern provinces and the rest of the country. The project would
help reduce infrastructure bottlenecks by increasing highway capacity through
construction of expressway (HAE) in the Province's key priority corridor (most
segments of HAE are important sections of NTHS). This project would
contribute to the alleviation of the poverty by providing direct access to
ports and major cities in the coastal provinces, which in turn would help
arrest a growing regionalism while furthering the facilitation and cost
reduction of transport, which are key requirements for market-oriented reforms
to succeed. The proposed highway maintenance component would be aimed at
stabilizing the condition of the existing network at a sustainable level.
Bank support is also justified by assistance to institutional and human
resources development of the agencies involved in highway planning, design,
construction, supervision, operation and maintenance. Bank involvement is
expected to contribute the improvement of traffic safety. The project would
foster improved practices in the areas of environment protection and land
acquisition and human resettlement.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Sector
13.     The Bank has accumulated substantial experience through the preparation
and implementation of 20 highway projects in China, seven of which have been
completed. While the overall performance of these projects is by and large
satisfactory, a number of problems have occurred, which have been taken into
consideration in the proposed project's design. The problems include:
inadequate preliminary engineering designs and bid documents; quality control
of construction; late commencement of electrical and mechanical facilities
component (which has delayed completion of some projects and necessitated
extension of the closing date of several Bank loans); and the need for
improved highway management and operation, especially for toll expressways.
14.       The engineering designs and bid documents for the proposed expressway
including E & M facilities, have been reviewed by international experts from
the early stage of project preparation.    Quality control of construction will
be addressed through increasing the frequency and quality of the Bank's
- 4 -



supervision. This will be reflected in the proposed supervision mission plan.
Timely completion of the E&M component will be achieved through strict control
and early commencement of the design and tendering procedures. Management and
operation of the new expressway will be less problematic than in other
provinces because of the already functioning expressway company. A study to
be completed early in the project will indicate how the operation of the new
expressway can best be integrated with that of those already in operation.
15.     There is also a concern that funds for highway maintenance might be
insufficient to cover an expanding and higher grade highway network.     During
appraisal , agreement was reached on a program to monitor maintenance
activities and results, and realistic annual targets for their future
condition. In the proposed highway maintenance component, about $ 20 million
of Bank's loan will be allocated to implementing part of the agreed program.
16.     Previous experience with highway safety programs in China has pointed to
the difficulty of their implementation due to lack of coordination between the
Traffic Police and the Highway Departments. This issue reflects a general
difficulty with inter-departmental coordination in China. However, in Anhui
Province, coordination between these agencies is better than other provinces.
It has been agreed that the necessary data on the traffic accidents would be
provided for the proposed traffic accident analysis, and its analysis will
benefit from participation of the Traffic Police. APCD has already set up a
research team with its Highway Administration Bureau as the lead unit, with
participation of the Traffic Police. In addition to the study on traffic
accidents, the improvement of blackspots would be included in the proposed
highway safety component.
17.     Experience of previous highway projects in land acquisition and
resettlement activities has generally been satisfactory . A Bank resettlement
specialist has been involved from the beginning of the preparation of this
project.   Experience in the environmental area in China has also generally
been favorable. However, more attention would be paid to environmental
supervision during construction and to training of personnel.
Environmental Aspects
18.     The project is a category "A" from an environmental point of view.
Environmental impact assessments (EIA) and Environmental Action Plans (EAP)
have been prepared for the proposed expressway. Major environmental impacts
include noise and air pollution during construction and operation; alteration
of hydrological regimes, soil erosion and impacts on local ecology during
construction; impacts on cultural relics; and transportation of construction
materials during construction. The final EIAs and EAPs were submitted to the
Bank in June 1998. With respect to the Highway Maintenance Program (HMP), a
Sectoral Environmental Assessment approach would be applied. The Initial
Environmental Evaluation Reports (IEE) and EAPs were submitted to the Bank in
May 1998 and found satisfactory.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement Aspects
19.     The project will require land acquisition and resettlement.    The
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for the proposed expressway were submitted to
the Bank in May 1998. Efforts were made during project preparation to
minimize land acquisition and resettlement through modifications to highway
- 5 -



alignments and designs.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 9, 1998.
- 6 -



