Report No. PIC530
Project Name                     Benin-Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL III)
Region                            Africa
Sector                            Structural Adjustment Lending
Project ID                        BJPA111
Implementing Agency               Government of Benin
Ministry of Finance
Date PID Prepared                 February 1995
Board Date                        May 23, 1995
1.   Background.  The Government, in conjunction with the other members
of the CFA zone, decided to reinforce its internal adjustment measures
by realigning the parity of the CFAF in January 1994. The devaluation
has improved prospects for accelerated sustainable growth in the medium
term. The Government recognizes, nevertheless, that despite the
progress registered during the last years, medium and long-term economic
prospects are fragile as a result of the dependence on a poorly
diversified agriculture sector, limited secondary sector development,
substantial weight of the public sector in the economy vis-e-vis private
sector activities, limited employment opportunities, insufficient
private sector investment rates, weak administrative capacity and human
resource development, low level of financial intermediation, and the
economy's vulnerability vis-e-vis developments in neighboring countries.
2.   Project Objectives.   The proposed operation would support deepening
structural reforms and implementing accompanying measures that will
permit Benin to benefit from an increase in competitiveness following
the recent CFAF external parity realignment. The suggested reforms fall
in four categories: fiscal policy, public enterprises, trade reform and
incentive framework.
3.   The Government's fiscal policy aims at: (a) broadening the tax base
by removing disincentives to economic activities and reinforcing tax
administration, (b) enhancing budget execution and procedures, (c)
increasing non-salary current expenditures relative to personnel
expenditures, (d) increasing allocations to primary education, basic
health services and infrastructure maintenance relative to other
expenditures, (e) increasing domestic financing of public investments,
and improving programming and monitoring in accordance with sector
strategies, and (f) eliminating domestic payment arrears.
4.   In line with the reorganization of the Public Adminsitration
initiated with the support of SAL II, the Government has proceeded to
reorganize five key ministries according to the results of the audits
recently finalized.
5.   Regarding public enterprises, the Government would continue
implementing the divestiture action plan for SONICOG (Pa Oil Company)
and SONAR (National Insurance Company) adopted under the SAL II program.
Agreement would be sought on implementation of a divestiture strategy
and dated action plans for other enterprises already targeted for



privatization. The Government also intends to further strengthen the
overall institutional framework for public enterprises management and
monitoring.
6.   Concerning the trade reform, agreement would be sought on
increasing import duties maintained at zbro as a temporary measure at
the time of the CFAF devaluation, on the elimination of special regimes
granting exemptions from import tariffs and the VAT, and on specific
measures to improve coordination between the customs administration and
the unit in charge of pre-shipment inspection of imports, including
creation of a common database connected to port management operations.
7.   Regarding the framework of incentives, the Government's agreement
would be sought on a revision of the legislation regulating labor,
investments and bussiness activities, the removal of both the temporary
margin controls introduced after the CFAF devaluation and the remaining
controls on cement, rice, tomato paste, milk and school supplies.
8.   Previous Bank Assistance.   The proposed SAL III would reinforce the
Government's structural adjustment program initiated in 1989 and
supported by SAL I ($45 million) approved in May 1989 and by SAL II ($55
million) approved in June 1991. It is an integral part of the lending
program proposed in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved by
the Board on June 7th, 1994.
9.   Overall progress under the structural adjustment program initiated
in 1989 with SAL I and followed by SAL II in 1991 is satisfactory
despite the delayed implementation of some reforms. SAL II
implementation results were fully reported to the Board in August 1994,
when its third tranche was released. The two conditions for which a
waiver wa srequeste dand granted were the Parliamentary approval of the
new Procurement Code and the review of the legislation pertaining the
investment promotion, labor relations and commercial activity.
10. Poverty Impact. In the context of this operation, poverty
alleviation focuses on efficient and equitable growth policies coupled
with targeted programs for the lowest socio-economic strata of the
population. To this end, the reinforced adjustment strategy for 1994-96
aims at accelerating the per capita GDP growth rate, while reorienting
the Government's policies in the social and infrastructure sectors.
Social safety measures are being reinforced so as to ease the impact of
the exchange rate realignment on vulnerable groups and provide the whole
population with better income-earning opportunities.
11. Project Implementation. The National Adjustment Commission, in
charge of managing the on-going SAL II program, chaired by the Minister
of Finance, which includes the Ministers of Planning, Industry, Energy,
Commerce, Rural Development and Labor and Social Affairs, will have
overall responsibilities for program management and monitoring. Day-to-
day coordination of the Commission's work will be assured by a technical
secretariat. The Minister of Finance will report progress on the
program to IDA every three months. Prior to Board presentation, the
Government will submit to IDA a Letter of Development Policy outlining
the adjustment program to be supported by the proposed credit.
- 2 -



12. Environmental Aspects. This project is a C-classification. Benin
has adopted a National Environmental Action Plan.
13. Project Objective Category. The project is a structural adjustment
operation.
Contact Point:         Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



