Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19483
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit No. 27270-BEN)
June 29, 1999
Macroeconomics Group 4
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                            CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                                  CFAF 560 (Feb. 1999)
CFA franc I million        =             US$1,680.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
ESAF            Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IDA             International Development Agency
IMF             Intemational Monetary Fund
OED             Operations Evaluation Department
OHADA           Organisation pour l'Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires (Organization for the
harmonization of business laws)
PERC            Public Expenditure Reform Credit
PCR             Project Completion Report
PIP             Public Investment Program
PPAR            Project Performance Audit Report
SAL             Stmctural Adjustment Loan
SCO             Onigbolo Cement company
SONACOP         Petroleum company
SONAPRA         Cotton company
SONAR           Insurance company
SONICOG         Palm oil company
SSS             Save sugar company
WAEMU           West African Economic and monetary Union
Vice President                          Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director                        Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager                          Charles Humphreys
Task Team Leader            :           Claude Leroy



TABLE OF CONTENTS
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary .................................1i
PART I - Program Implementation Assessment ...............1...................
A. Background .1
B.  Program Objectives and Design                  .2
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Program            .6
D.  Achievement of Program Objectives                .7
E.  Bank and Borrower Performance .11
F.    Assessment of Outcome and Sustainability .11
G. Future Operation .14
H. Lessons from Experience .15
PART I1 - Statistical Tables ..................   16
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .16
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits .17
Table 3: Program Timetable .17
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements .17
Table 5: Program Financing .18
Table 6:  Key Economic Indicators .18
Table 7:    Status of Program Inplementation .19
Table 8:    Status of Compliance with Condition for 2nd Tranche Release . 27
Table 9:  Status of Legal Covenants .28
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .29
Table 11:  Bank Resources: Staff Missions .29
APPENDICES
Appendix A Mission's Aide-Memoire
Appendix B Summary of Borrower's Contribution
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 27270-BEN)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAL III) to the Republic of Benin, for which Credit No. 27270-BEN
in the amount of SDR 25.8 million (US$40 million equivalent) was approved on June 3,
1995 and made effective on February 22, 1996.
2.    The credit was closed on January 29, 1999, more than two years after the original
closing date of December 31, 1996. It was a two-tranche operation, which was fully
disbursed in January 1999.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Mr. J. Chevallier, consultant, and reviewed by the
country team. The Borrower's own evaluation of the credit is attached as Appendix B.
4.    This ICR is based on material in the credit file and other related documents,
discussions with World Bank staff and government officials currently or formerly
charged with project implementation. The Borrower contributed to this report by
providing a summary of its evaluation of the project's preparation and execution. The
draft ICR was sent to the Borrower for comments, but those have not yet been received.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 27270-BEN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Benin became a Marxist-Leninist State in the mid-1970s, and its development
strategy was driven by the objective of accelerating growth through heavy government
intervention in all sectors of the economy. This led to large budgetary and balance of
payments deficits, which became unsustainable in the early 1980s. Reform efforts began
in the mid-1980's under President Kerekou, but it took a considerable amount of time to
reach a consensus on a comprehensive reform program. In May 1989 the Bank approved
its first structural adjustment credit (SAL I), which was focused on reducing the fiscal
deficit, initiating a public enterprise divestiture program, and managing the crisis
engendered by the collapse of the state-owned banks. Program implementation was
delayed, however, by a major social and political crisis sparked by public salary payment
arrears in late 1989. A National Conference was convened in February 1990, and a new
Administration under President Soglo was installed in April 1991 following democratic
elections. A second structural adjustment credit (SAL II) was approved in June 1991 to
support the continuation of the reform program. It was a three-tranche operation, which
was fully disbursed in late 1994.
2.    On January 12, 1994, Benin, along with the other members of the CFA franc
zone, devalued their common currency, the CFA franc, from its fixed parity of 50 CFA
francs per French franc to a new parity of 100 CFA francs per French franc. The
devaluation took place after a prolonged period of economic recession in the 13 CFA
zone member countries, resulting from a deterioration of the terms of trade and a
significant appreciation of the CFA franc since the mid-eighties. The devaluation
removed a major constraint on the supply response to Benin's adjustment efforts initiated
in 1989. Growth accelerated from 4 percent in 1990-93 to 5.6 percent in 1996 and 1997,
driven mainly by agriculture and trade activities.  Renewed competitiveness and
favorable terms of trade triggered a 29 percent growth of exports from 1994 to 1997.
The share of private investment in GDP increased from about 7 percent in 1991-93 to
11.8 percent in 1997.
Program objectives and description
3.    Following the devaluation of the CFA franc a new IDA country assistance
strategy (CAS) for FY95-97 was prepared and discussed by the Executive Directors in
June 1994. Its main objectives were to encourage and support the private sector supply



ii
response, and to ensure adequate provision of basic social services. A third structural
adjustment operation (SAL III) was envisaged as one of the main vehicles to achieve the
CAS objectives. To improve incentives for private sector development, SAL III
supported reforms in three areas: tax and trade, the regulatory framework, and public
enterprise divestiture. To enhance the delivery of public services, SAL III supported
restructuring current expenditures, improving public investment programming and
execution, and reorganizing key ministries. SAL III was a two-tranche operation
approved in June 1995. Japan, Switzerland, Belgium and Denmark cofinanced the
operation and several other donors provided parallel financing.
Implementation experience and results
4.    Program implementation was much delayed by the absence of a solid majority in
Parliament in support of the reform program. The new government named after former
President Kerekou's election in 1996 endorsed the SALIII program but proved no more
effective in its implementation than its predecessor. Following the appointment of a new
Cabinet in May 1998, program implementation regained momentum. Eventually, in
December 1998, the conditions for second tranche release were considered as
substantially met, including those in the areas of cotton sector reform and liberalization
of the petroleum sector, which had generated considerable opposition. Two waivers
were granted, however, to take account of changing circumstances. The credit was
closed more than two years behind schedule.
5.    A satisfactory macroeconomic framework has been maintained throughout the
period of SAL In implementation. Most tax and trade reforms were completed as Board
conditions before SAL III approval. The regulatory framework has improved with the
enactment of new business laws and of a labor code. The divestiture program took much
longer than expected, but was eventually completed for its most important parts.
Budgetary procedures have improved and allocations to priority sectors have increased.
The quality of the Public Investment Program (PIP) improved only marginally and its
rate of execution remained low. Despite the enactment of a new procurement code as a
condition for credit effectiveness, procurement procedures are still slow and inefficient.
Little progress has been made in the reform of public administration.
6.    The outcome of the operation is marginally satisfactory. Much remains to be
done to improve the business environment and attract private investors. The economy is
highly vulnerable to external shocks, and even more dependent on cotton than it was
before the reform program was initiated. Poorly implemented changes in the sector have
compromised the 1998-99 crop year, and made more difficult the implementation of a
reform process aimed at empowering producers. Poor management in the energy sector
aggravated a crippling power shortage in the first part of 1998, due to a drought in the
region. Despite increased budget allocations to priority sectors, the delivery of essential
services to the population has not significantly improved. Implementation of ongoing
projects in education, health and transport in support of this objective is far behind
schedule.



iii
7.    The changes supported by SAL III are likely to be sustained.  The most
controversial part of the reform program was the divestiture of public enterprises.
Performance of newly privatized enterprises has improved and their prospects under
private management are much better than they were before their privatization. As a
result, opposition to privatization is on the wane. While institutional development was
not an explicit objective of SAL III, there was a modest achievement in this area during
program implementation.
Lessons from experience
*  A two-tranche operation was not the most appropriate instrument in a difficult
political environment. A series of single-tranche operations would have increased
leverage and flexibility.
*  Staff continuity on both sides contributed to a good quality dialogue, even when the
political environment was not conducive to reform.
*  An attempt should have been made to quantify the objectives of the program and a
monitoring and evaluation system should have been put in place with support from
the economic management project approved a month before SAL III.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 27270-BEN)
PART I - PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    On January 12, 1994, Benin, along with the other members of the CFA franc
zone, devalued their common currency, the CFA franc, from its fixed parity of 50 CFA
francs per French franc to a new parity of 100 CFA francs per French franc. The
devaluation took place after a prolonged period of economic recession in the 13 CFA
zone member countries, resulting from a deterioration of the terms of trade and a
significant appreciation of the CFA franc since the mid-eighties. The devaluation
removed a major constraint on the supply response to Benin's adjustment efforts initiated
in 1989. Growth accelerated from 4 percent in 1990-93 to 5.6 percent in 1996 and 1997,
driven mainly by agriculture and trade activities.  Renewed competitiveness and
favorable terms of trade triggered a 29 percent growth of exports from 1994 to 1997.
The share of private investment in GDP increased from about 7 percent in 1991-93 to
11.8 percent in 1997.
2.    Benin became a Marxist-Leninist State in the mid-1970s, and its development
strategy was driven by the objective of accelerating growth through heavy government
intervention in all sectors of the economy. Initially, growth accelerated as a result of a
vastly increased public investment program financed partially through non concessional
borrowing. Benin also benefited from the oil and uranium booms in neighboring Nigeria
and Niger. By the early 1980s, however, the large budgetary and balance of payments
deficits became unsustainable and gave rise to a substantial accumulation of arrears.
3.    Reform efforts began in 1982, but it took a considerable amount of time to reach
a consensus on a comprehensive reform program. In May 1989 the Bank approved a first
structural adjustment credit (SAL I) to Benin, which was focused on reducing the fiscal
deficit, initiating a public enterprise divestiture program, and managing the crisis
engendered by the collapse of the state-owned banks. Program implementation was
delayed, however, by a major social and political crisis sparked by public salary payment
arrears in late 1989/early 1990. A National Conference was convened in February 1990,
and a new Administration under President Soglo was installed in April 1991 following
democratic elections. A Project Completion Report (PCR) was issued in June 1992 and a
Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) a year later. Both reports agree that SAL I



2
made a substantial contribution to the fundamental reorientation of the Beninese
economy and to its development potential.
4.    A second structural adjustment credit (SAL II) was approved in June 1991 to
support the continuation of the reform program. It was a three-tranche operation, which
was fully disbursed in late 1994. Parliamentary opposition was an important factor in
slowing down program implementation. The Government encountered difficulties in
complying with tranche release conditions, and several waivers were granted. An
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was prepared in November 1995. It concluded
that the outcome of SAL II was satisfactory, its sustainability, likely and its institutional
development impact, negligible. Main lessons drawn from the experience were that
emphasis should be given to promoting ownership of reforms through public information
and debate, and that firmness on the part of donors was crucial to ensure that the program
remained on track. In this respect, OED's memorandum suggested that recourse to
repeated waivers, even when individually justified, might cause Government to become
complacent about sticking to the reform program.
5.    Following the devaluation of the CFA franc a new IDA country assistance
strategy (CAS) was prepared and discussed by the Executive Directors in June 1994. Its
main objectives were to encourage and support the private sector supply response, and to
ensure adequate provision of basic social services.  A third structural adjustment
operation (SAL HII) was envisaged as a key element in the lending program proposed in
the CAS. SAL III was expected to consolidate the reforms initiated under SAL I and II,
and encourage the supply response of the private sector to the increase in competitiveness
generated by the devaluation of the CFA franc.
B. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
6.    Program objectives. The reform program supported by SAL III was outlined in
the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1995.
It aimed at maintaining a substantial real depreciation through appropriate
macroeconomic policies, ensuring a strong supply response to the devaluation, and
improving the delivery of essential social services required for higher growth in the
medium-term. More specifically, to improve incentives for private sector development,
SAL III supported reforms in three areas: tax and trade, the regulatory framework, and
public enterprise divestiture. To enhance the delivery of public services, SAL 11
supported restructuring current expenditures, improving public investment programming
and execution, and reorganizing key ministries. Expected benefits were cast in general
terms and not quantified.
7.    Program design and cofinancing. The proceeds of the credit (US$40 million
equivalent) were to be disbursed in two tranches of US$20 million each, the first one
upon effectiveness, and the second after a satisfactory performance review, expected to
take place nine months after. Belgium, Denmark, Japan, and Switzerland cofmanced the
program, which was also received parallel financing from other donors, including
4



3
France, the US, African Development Bank, and the European Union. The EMF
extended its support through a three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) approved in August 1996. During the 1996-98 period, total extemal financing
under the reform program represented about 15 percent of total government revenues. In
addition, debt relief was the equivalent of about 8 percent of total government revenues
during that same period.
1. Macroeconomic objectives
8.    Continued implementation of appropriate macroeconomic policies was a
condition for second tranche release.  In this respect, it was expected that the
Government would maintain total revenue at about 13 percent of GDP in 1995-97 and
reduce current expenditure from 14 percent of GDP in 1994 to 11 percent in 1997. The
objective of monetary policy was to contain inflation through a reduction of the money
supply growth, by maintaining a tight credit policy vis-a-vis the Government, while
expanding credit to the private sector. The annual inflation rate was expected to decline
from 36 percent in 1994 to 15 percent in 1995 and 2 percent thereafter.
2. Private sector incentives
9.    The program was designed to increase the responsiveness of the private sector
and promote efficient investment. It included tax and trade reform, simplification and
reduction of government regulation, and public enterprise reform.
10.   Tax and trade reform. Despite a 25 percent increase in government revenues as
a share of GDP from 1989 to 1993, Benin had still a low revenue to GDP ratio of 13
percent. At the same time, many operators complained of an excessive tax burden and
arbitrariness in tax administration. This reflected persistent distortions, a narrow tax
base, and a weak administration. Under the first two SALs, notable progress had been
achieved in reducing distortions. A value added tax (VAT) of 18 percent was introduced
in 1991. In the same year, the structure of import taxation was simplified and the
maximum tariff rate was reduced to 63 percent. Export taxes were abolished in 1993.
11.   A major reform of the tax system became effective in January 1995, before Board
approval of SAL IM. A single business tax was introduced to replace the minimum
turnover presumptive tax, which was levied on all firms irrespective of profit or losses.
It also replaced the difficult-to-collect profit tax on small enterprises. To minimize
administrative costs, it was to be levied at 13 percent of the rental value of business
premises for large businesses, and at 26 percent for small enterprises, which were no
longer subject to the profit tax. Also, a single property tax was introduced to replace four
previous taxes. Finally, in June 1995, the tax on wages and salaries was revised, by
reducing the number of rates to four and the top marginal rate to 40 percent. Regarding
indirect taxation, the Government extended coverage of the VAT to large retail trade and
to the petroleum sector in 1994 and to sugar in 1995. The VAT was expected to be



4
extended to cement in 1997, after a transition period following the privatization of the
cement company jointly owned by Benin and Nigeria.
12.    A new import tariff schedule became effective in January 1995, reducing the
maximum rate from 63 percent to 20 percent and the number of rates from sixteen to
five. The use of remaining reference values for customs valuation was also eliminated.
Benin had thus introduced one of the most open trade regimes in Africa. A further step
was to be taken in 1996 with the elimination of import tariff and VAT exemptions
accorded under special regimes outside the investment code, and the limitation of zero
tariff to rice, cotton textiles, school books and medicines.
13.   Regulatory framework. Before the initiation of its reform program, Benin had a
suffocating regulatory environment. Price of most products were controlled, formalities
to establish enterprises were overly complex, and hiring and firing decisions by
enterprises were severely restricted. In 1989-90 a new Commercial Law, Labor Code
and Investment Code were adopted and in 1993, price controls were eliminated on most
goods and services. At the time of the devaluation, temporary price and margin controls
were introduced as a precautionary measure. They were removed later in 1994.
14.   After having reviewed implementation of the new codes, the Government agreed
that further improvements were needed to clarify and simplify investment incentives,
further liberalize the labor market, and reduce formalities required to establish new firms.
New investment, labor and commercial codes were expected to be adopted by the
Government by the end of 1995.
15.   Public enterprise reform. In the 1970s, the Government created a large number
of enterprises which dominated commercial and industrial activities. In 1980 there were
about 120 such enterprises, and by the end of the 1980s they had accumulated huge
losses. In 1982, the Government initiated a reform program and dissolved 54 regional
public enterprises. In 1988, a privatization and restructuring program was introduced for
the remaining 65 enterprises. By early 1994, 32 enterprises remained in the state
portfolio, of which 12 were autonomous administrative agencies, 4 public utilities, and
16 commercial enterprises. The direct fiscal and financial burden of public enterprises
had been largely eliminated.
16.   The Government program for 1995-96 included the divestiture of 13 of the
remaining commercial public enterprises. In addition, the Government intended to
liberalize the insurance sector, liquidate SONAR, the national insurance company, and
transfer its good portfolio to a new company. In the textile sector, the Government
launched studies to define a divestiture strategy to be implemented in 1995. Subject to
agreement with the Nigerian Government, two companies (cement and sugar) were
expected to be privatized in 1995. The capital of SONICOG, the national palm oil
company, was expected to be opened to private investors in early 1996 after all its
plantations had been transferred to producers' cooperatives.



5
17.   With respect to public utilities and the petroleum sector, tariffs were adjusted for
electricity and water in 1994 following the devaluation.  A new framework for
liberalizing the petroleum sector was approved in 1994, but SONACOP, the national
petroleum company, had retained a de facto monopoly on the importation and
distribution of petroleum products. Under SAL III, the Government agreed to an action
plan, including offering for sale 75 percent of service stations to the private sector by
October 1995, completing the sale of 50 percent of service stations, and transferring the
management of petroleum storage facilities to the private sector by February 1996.
Completion of the action plan was a condition of second tranche release.
18.  In the cotton sector, the program supported by SAC III aimed at improving
producers' incentives and opening up the sector to private investment. As a condition for
second tranche release, SONAPRA, the cotton company, was to be transformed into a
mixed capital company, and one third of its shares was to be offered to cotton producers.
To ensure that producer prices reflect more closely world market prices, SONAPRA was
to adopt market-based pricing procedures for seed cotton sales to private gins and revise
the price stabilization mechanism on the basis of a review to be conducted in consultation
with IDA.
3. Public services
19.   During the 1980s the provision of basic public services deteriorated steadily, as
public finance fell into complete disarray. Under the first two SALs, the focus was
mostly on fiscal stabilization and reduction of the public sector's role in the economy.
The CFA franc devaluation gave the Government the opportunity to accelerate the
restructuring of current expenditures, and the focus of the adjustment program turned to
increasing budget allocations for essential public services. The program also continued
to emphasize the improving of public investment programming and the restructuring of
key ministries.
20.   Current expenditures. In 1989, the civil service wage bill absorbed more than
80 percent of total government revenue, leaving almost nothing for non-wage operating
and maintenance expenditure. By 1993, the share of the wage bill had been reduced to
61 percent of current expenditure through a successful program of civil service
departures. Under SAL III ceilings were set for the wage bill in absolute tenns. To
ensure a better management and control of the civil service, the Government undertook
to establish a single computerized personnel file by December 1995.
21.   The share of expenditure for maintenance and supplies was to be increased and
maintained at 7.5 percent of the national current budget. Budget allocations for non-
wage expenditure in education and health were set in both absolute and relative terms
(8.2 percent of current budget for education and 5.8 percent for health). Finally,
allocations for road maintenance were to be increased steadily. The monitoring of
budget implementation was to be improved through the preparation of a budget execution
summary within 45 days of the end of each quarter.



6
22.   Public investment.  In the 1980s, public investment projects were poorly
prepared. There was little screening as to their economic and financial viability. The
investment program was plagued by low rates of execution, lack of counterpart funds,
and procurement problems. In 1989, the Government introduced a three-year rolling
public investment program (PIP). Under the first two SALs, coverage, project selection,
and implementation monitoring of the PIP improved. Allocations of counterpart funds
also improved. The execution rate of the PIP increased to an estimated 69 percent in
1993.
23.   Before Board approval of SAL III the Government established a special unit in
the Ministry of Finance to ensure adequate monitoring and timely disbursement of
counterpart funds. To improve the selection of projects in the PIP, it agreed to carry out
a feasibility study demonstrating the economic and financial viability of all projects
costing more than CFAF 2 billion. During program implementation the three-year
rolling PIPs were to be reviewed annually with IDA.
24.   Under SAL II a new Procurement Code was to be enacted as a condition of third
tranche release. The Government approved a new Code in 1994, but parliamentary
ratification was delayed. A waiver was requested and granted for the release of the third
tranche. Adoption of the new code by Parliament became a condition of effectiveness of
SAL III.
25.   Public administration reform. During the first two SALs the Government
launched a program of organizational audits and subsequent restructuring plans for key
ministries. The Ministries of Finance and Rural Development were restructured in 1993,
and the Ministries of Education and Health in 1994. Under SAL III an action program
was agreed upon to extend the reform program to other ministries.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
26.  Implementation of the program was considerably delayed by the political
environment. A great number of political parties vie for power in Benin, resulting in
shifting majorities in Parliament. The Government of President Soglo was strongly
committed to the reform program, but with elections set for May 1996, it became
increasingly unable to muster a majority in Parliament in support of the program. Credit
effectiveness was delayed by almost 8 months, as the Parliament resisted calls for an
early ratification of the credit agreement. Eventually, the Government ratified the credit
through an ordinance. The adoption of the new procurement code by Parliamnent, which
was a special condition for credit effectiveness as indicated in para. 24 above, fell victim
to the political environment. The new code was eventually enacted by ordinance in
February 1996.
27.   President Soglo lost the presidential elections in 1996, and was replaced by his
predecessor, President Kerekou. The new government endorsed the SALIII program but



7
proved no more effective in its implementation than its predecessor. Following
appointment of a new Cabinet in May 1998, the reform process regained momentum.
Eventually, in December 1998, the conditions for second tranche release were considered
as substantially met, including those in the areas of cotton and petroleum sector reform,
which had generated considerable opposition. Two waivers were granted, however, to
take account of changing circumstances. The credit was closed more than two years
behind schedule.
28.   Despite changes in the political scene, there was a remarkable continuity at the
technical level. The head of the technical secretariat for adjustment in the Ministry of
Finance stayed in his job for most of the period. The secretariat, which is well respected
for the technical competence of its members, was influential in helping the nine thematic
committees and the Presidium, including all ministers concerned and the presidents of the
nine committees, reach a consensus.
29.   Three major risks were foreseen in the Memorandum of the President for the
proposed operation. The lack of consensus between the executive and legislative powers
and the weak administrative capacity of the Government were considered as two factors
that could delay program implementation. These two risks materialized as indicated
above. The third risk was related to uncertainty concerning developments in neighboring
Nigeria. Changes in Nigeria have always had significant consequences for the Beninese
economy, but during program implementation there was no negative impact from the
evolving situation in Nigeria.
D. ACHIIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
1. Macroeconomic framework
30.   A satisfactory macroeconomic framework has been maintained in Benin since
1994. Real economic growth increased from 4.4 percent in 1994 to 5.6 percent in 1996-
97. The economy remains, however, highly vulnerable to developments in the rest of the
world. A sharp reduction in the supply of electricity from Ghana during the period
March to June 1998 has lowered economic growth to an estimated 4.4 percent in 1998.
The recent decline in world prices of cotton, combined with the poor quality of inputs
supplied to cotton producers by private operators in thel998-99 crop season will have
negative consequences for the economic growth rate in 1999. The economy is still
heavily reliant on cotton and trade, as little economic diversification has taken place over
the past ten years.
31.   The Government has pursued prudent fiscal policies. The share of public revenue
in GDP increased from 12.3 percent in 1991-93 to 14.6 percent in 1997. The primary
deficit was reduced, but not eliminated, contrary to initial projections. It declined from
4.5 percent of GDP in 1995 to 2.5 percent in 1997. The inflation rate, which surged to
14.9 percent in 1995 as a result of the CFAF devaluation declined to 4.7 percent in 1996,



8
and 3.8 percent in 1997, a level which is slightly higher than the 2 percent targeted in the
program.
2. Private Sector Incentives
32.   Most of the tax and customs reforms supported by SAL III were introduced
upfront, except for the revision of the general income tax, which was to be prepared by
September 1995, and is still pending. The reforms already implemented, combined with
improved tax administration, have contributed to a sharp increase in government
revenues since 1994. The tax base remains narrow, however. For example only about
2000 enterprises pay the profits tax, and about 50 of them account for 90 percent of total
domestic tax proceeds.
33.   Despite the substantial lowering of tariffs in September 1994, customs receipts
have increased from 5 percent of GDP in 1994 to 6.7 percent in 1997, as a result of
improved management and elimination of exemptions. A common external tariff for the
member countries of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) is
scheduled for 2000. It may raise protection for key products and make re-export trade to
Nigeria less competitive.
34.   Most price controls were removed before Board approval of SAL III. Ex ante
margin controls are now limited to water, electricity, school books, pharmaceuticals and
cement, and fixed prices are set only for petroleum products and bread. The Government
undertook to review remaining price controls by the end of 1995, but there has been no
further progress in this area.
35.   With respect to the regulatory framework, Benin, together with other francophone
countries, has ratified the OHADA treaty providing for a common commercial code and
a regional Court of Appeals. Four region-wide business laws became effective in
January 1998. A common investment code is under preparation for the WAEMU area.
It will provide for a single incentive system countries for all member countries. A one-
stop shop for investors was established in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in
1998 and is operating satisfactorily. Finally, a new labor code liberalizing the hiring and
firing of staff and improving the functioning of the market was enacted in 1998.
36.   Implementation of the divestiture program was slower than envisaged initially.
The privatization of the Seme oil production platform and of four small agro-industries
was completed, but well beyond the end of 1995, the initial target date. The privatization
of two hotels, which was also expected before end-1995, is underway, but not yet
completed. In the textile sector, studies were launched in 1995 to define a divestiture
strategy for two enterprises (COTEB and SITEX). This strategy was expected to be
implemented in the same year. It has not yet been adopted by the Government, however,
and the two enterprises are still in the public sector. On the other hand, delays were
expected in the divestiture of two companies jointly owned with Nigeria. These two
companies, SCO producing cement and SSS producing sugar, were privatized in 1999.



9
Following the completion of the transfer of SONICOG's palm oil plantations to producer
cooperatives initiated during SAL II, the processing units were sold to four private
companies.
37.   The most controversial reform concerned SONACOP, the national petroleum
company. At the time of negotiations of SAL III, the Government was not prepared to
privatize SONACOP. Instead, an action plan for liberalizing and opening up the sector
was agreed upon, as indicated in para. 17 above. The plan ran into stiff opposition,
however, and became a hot political issue in the 1996 elections. Eventually, a revised
plan, going beyond the initial one in liberalizing the sector, was adopted by the new
Government, including the sale of 25 percent of the service stations held by SONACOP
to private operators, and of 55 percent of its capital to private investors and of 10 percent
to the personnel. A waiver was granted for the second tranche release condition
providing for the transfer of SONACOP's petroleum storage facilities to the Government,
and the conclusion of a long term lease with private operators for the management of
these facilities. The privatization of SONACOP went much beyond the initial condition.
38.   The service stations were sold and 15 private companies have been authorized to
import and distribute petroleum products.  A first call for bids for the sale of
SONACOP's capital was launched in 1997, but was unsuccessful. A second call for bids
was issued in July 1998, a bidder was selected, and negotiations were completed in April
1999. The contract is expected to become effective on July 1, 1999, at which time, the
retail price of petroleum products is expected to be liberalized.
39.  In the cotton sector, the initial strategy focused on opening the capital of
SONAPRA to cotton producers to improve their incentives. The elimination of the
monopsony granted to SONAPRA in the buying of seed cotton from producers was not
envisaged, but a market-based mechanism was to replace the administrative allocation of
seed cotton among private ginning companies. The role of the stabilization fund was to
be reviewed with the objective of phasing it out.
40.   During 1995-98 eight private ginning companies started to operate. In 1998 the
Government decided to fully liberalize seed cotton purchases by the 2000/01 crop year.
The Bank welcomed this decision and agreed that its implementation should take place
before the privatization of SONAPRA. A waiver was granted on the condition for
second tranche release pertaining to the offering for sale of at least one third of
SONAPRA's capital to cotton producers.
41.   Cotton production more than doubled in the 1990s. From less than 150,000 tons
of seed cotton in 1990/91, it jumped to an average of 270,000 tons in 1993/95 and
350,000 tons in 1995/97. Production is expected to decline in the 1998/99 crop year,
however, as the quality of inputs distributed to farmers by some private suppliers was
less than adequate. The farmgate price was increased from 80 CFAF/kg prior to the
devaluation to 200 CFAF/kg in the two crop seasons 1996/98, but the producers' share in
SONAPRA's after-tax profits has not been adjusted, and represents only a small portion



10
of their income (less thahn 2 percent).' Their share in cotton exports (a proxy for the
industry's revenues) has actually declined during the decade from 63 percent in 1991-93
to 55 percent in 1996-98.  The allocation of seed cotton among private ginning
companies remains an administrative decision.
3. Public Services
42.   SAL III placed major emphasis on improving the composition and quality of
public expenditure, and on making budgetary procedures more efficient. During SAL III
implementation, Public Expenditure Reviews (PER) were carried out jointly by the
Government and the Bank in the education, health, rural development, and transport and
public works sectors. The share of the wage bill in public expenditure declined from 54
percent in 1994 to 48 percent in 1997, leaving increased room for non-wage operating
and maintenance expenditures. Budget allocations for priority sectors increased and the
execution rate in current expenditures for health and education improved. Domestic
arrears were reduced, but not cleared, as had been initially envisaged under the reform
program. Their share in GDP declined from 1.7 percent of GDP at the end of 1994 to
0.9 percent at the end of 1998. The practice, which authorized departments to continue
to spend on account of budgets for previous years, was discontinued in 1998, making
budget implementation more efficient and transparent.
43.   Preparation and implementation of the three-year rolling Public Investment
Programs (PIP) improved marginally. Since 1996, each project with a total cost
exceeding CFAF 2 billion has been included in the PIP, only when its economic and
financial viability had been established. Sector strategies have been prepared, which has
contributed to an improved selection of investments. The rate of PIP execution has
deteriorated, however, from 69 percent in 1992 to 63 percent in 1998, despite progress
made in the availability of counterpart funds, which was a major constraint in the past.
Delays in the procurement process and poor practices remain a major stumbling block
The new procurement code was enacted as a condition of credit effectiveness in 1996,
but its provisions are not yet enforced, as its implementation decrees have not yet been
issued.
44.   A large amount of resources has been invested on organizational audits of
ministries, but with little concrete results so far. In November 1996, a decree was issued
to harmonize the organization of ministries, including the separation of their political and
technical functions. Permanent Secretariats and planning units have been established in
most ministries subsequently. To improve the efficiency of the civil service, a law was
adopted in September 1998, replacing the automatic promotion system by a performance-
based system. Additional legislation is required, however, to make the new system
operational. A major reform is underway to establish 77 financially autonomous
municipalities with elected officials, as provided by the five devolution laws adopted in
1998.



11
E. BANK'S AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
45.   The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, appraisal and
supervision of SAL III was satisfactory. In retrospect, however, a different design might
have been more appropriate to take account of the lack of consensus between the
executive and legislative powers, and of past experience in tranche release. Instead of a
two-tranche operation, with specific conditions for the release of the second tranche, it
would have been preferable to consider two single tranche operations, with the second
one triggered by the satisfactory implementation of an agreed upon reform program.
Under SAL II, Benin requested and was granted two waivers for the release of the third
tranche. In the President's report for SAL III, it was stated that the practice of seeking
waivers should not continue. As explained in the President's report, precautions were
taken in formulating the conditions for second tranche release, and, the intention was to
stick to them. Yet, three and a half years later, two waivers were granted for the release
of the second tranche of SAL III. Experience shows that despite all the precautions taken
in formulating conditions for tranche release, the situation in the country three and half
years later may have evolved to a point where these conditions are no longer relevant.
46.   Supervision of SAL III was fully satisfactory. Resources were adequate and the
focus was on supporting Benin with its reform program. A number of studies were
commissioned to help build up a much needed consensus in Benin. The Bank country
team worked closely with the Government on Public Expenditure Reviews (PER) for the
priority sectors. Shortly after approval of SAL III, the Africa Region of the Bank
changed its structure and appointed Country Directors with full responsibility for the
dialogue with a limited number of countries. The Director for Benin, who had played a
major role in the preparation of SAL III, devoted a large amount of his time to help the
Beninese authorities stay the course of adjustment.
47.   The Borrower's performance was marginally satisfactory, as most reforms were
much delayed. Several reforms have been implemented on paper, but are not yet
effective. This is the case for instance of reforms in the areas of procurement and civil
service. In the cotton sector, the modest changes which were introduced fell short of the
initial objectives, and have actually resulted in the transfer of part of the rent enjoyed by
the public sector to a handful of well connected operators. The privatization process took
much longer than expected, and after ten years of adjustment supported by the Bretton
Woods institutions, Benin has still some large enterprises in the public sector, including
all utilities and several commercial firms.
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY
48.   The expected benefits of SAL III were a strong supply response and improved
delivery of essential social services required for higher growth in the future. They were
framed in general terms and the setting up of an evaluation and monitoring system was
not considered. It is difficult therefore to make an elaborate assessment of the outcome
of the reform program.



12
49.   The devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994 generated a strong supply response.
Growth was fueled by cotton and trade. The spectacular growth in cotton production in
recent years was achieved in two steps, the first one in the 1993/94 crop year,
immediately before the devaluation, and the second one in the 1995/96 crop year, after
the devaluation. The recent increase in farm gate price of seed cotton took place after the
second step, and cannot therefore be considered as a factor. On the other hand, the poor
management of the reform process in the sector has contributed to a decline in cotton
production in 1998-99, and may have undermined further liberalization efforts.
Cotton sector: share of farm gate value in cotton exports, and of cotton exports in
domestic exports for 1991-93 and 1996-98
Years      Farm gate value         Cotton exports           Domestic exports
CFAF billion   %       CFAF billion   %         CFAF billion
1991-93    16.4           62      26.4           76        34.5
1996-98    66.5           55       121.9         85         143.2
Source: SONAPRA and IMF
Production of seed cotton ('000 tons)
400-
300-
200 -
1990-91  1991-92  1992-93  1993-94  1994-95  1995-96  1996-97  1997-98
+ produclon
50.   There was little diversification of the economy in recent years. Benin is even
more dependent on cotton today than it was at the beginning of the 1990s. As showed in
the table above, the share of cotton exports in total domestic exports increased from 76
percent in 1991-93 to 85 percent in 1996-98. Manufacturing is in its infancy and its
share in GDP is still extremely low. Private investment increased in recent years, but its
share in GDP stayed at a low level of less than 12 percent during the 1995-98 period.
Despite improvements in the business climate brought about by SAL III, much remains
to be done to make Benin an attractive place for private investors. Salaries are relatively



13
high when taking into account the low productivity of labor. All utilities are still in the
public sector. The services they provide are expensive and not reliable enough, as was
again demonstrated during the power crisis in the first part of 1998. The port of Cotonou
is not efficient. Progress was made recently following the elimination of the monopoly
of SOBEMAP, a public enterprise, on container handling. Shipping companies have
started to invest in new facilities, which have contributed to a reduction in container
handling time. Customs operations remain extremely time consuming, however. They
are poorly managed and petty corruption is reported to be widespread.
51.   The annual growth rate increased from 4.4 percent in 1994 to 5.6 percent in 1996
and 1997. Growth is expected to decline to 4.4 percent in 1998 as a result of the energy
shortages early in the year. The expected decline of cotton production in 1999 will have
also a negative impact on growth. Employment has increased, but not rapidly enough to
make a dent in the high unemployment rate in a high population growth environment.
The outcome of the reform program supported by SAL III is therefore considered as
marginally satisfactory as far as the supply response is concerned.
52.   Concerning improved delivery of basic services in education, health and road
maintenance, progress has been slow. Two projects, one each for education and health,
were approved before SAL III, and one for transport, after, in October 1996.
Implementation of the three projects is behind schedule, with disbursement lags well over
50 percent. In the education sector, additional teachers are being hired and enrollments
are increasing, but the quality and efficiency of education remain poor. In the health
sector, implementation of the project has barely started. The rate of budget execution in
this sector is still low (less than 60 percent in 1996 and 1997), denoting a weak
administrative structure. Reforms are underway, however, to make the health districts
operational. In the transport sector, road maintenance is being privatized, and the timely
availability of resources has considerably improved. In view of the above, the outcome
of SAL III can be considered as marginally satisfactory in the area of public services
delivery.
53.   The changes brought about by SAL III are likely to be sustained. The most
controversial reform concerned the petroleum sector. It became a hot issue in the 1996
presidential elections. The unions were strongly opposed to the privatization of the
national oil company. Two years later, and after much debate, the Government decided
to privatize the company, a decision which went beyond the initial agreement reached for
SAL III. The privatization is now underway. The recent adjustments in Nigeria's oil
policy have removed a strong incentive for a traditional border trade, that fed into a large
informal distribution system in Benin. Other divestitures were much less controversial
and are showing positive results. This is the case for instance of the palm oil industry,
which is making a comeback after a long period of decline in the public sector.
54.   The long term sustainability of changes in the social sectors is less clear.
Increasing resources for the social sectors was a necessary first step to halt the
deterioration in the delivery of basic social services. It is not a sufficient one, however,



14
if the objective is to achieve full coverage of a rapidly growing population in basic
education and health services in the foreseeable future. The major constraint is the high
cost of civil servants. Imaginative solutions involving a much stronger degree of
participation of local communities in the delivery of services are needed.
55.   Institutional development was not an objective of SAL HI. Other operations,
including the economic management project approved in May 1995, were designed for
that purpose. There again, progress is slow. PIP and budget procedures have improved.
Sectoral strategies have been prepared in key sectors. More generally, SAL III has
contributed to a change in mentalities, particularly as concerns privatization of public
enterprises, that should help in the implementation of the unfinished reform agenda. The
impact of SAL III on institutional development is modest at best.
G. FUTURE OPERATION
56.   The adjustment program initiated in 1989 has contributed to a major reorientation
of the Beninese economy. This reorientation has survived momentous changes in the
political scene, and backtracking is unlikely. The environment for private business has
considerably improved. Private investment as a share in GDP remains too low, however,
to ensure a steady increase in per capita incomes and employment. Benin has good assets
for an export-driven strategy that would create jobs in high labor intensity activities. For
this strategy to succeed, however, Benin must relentlessly pursue a reform process
aiming at reducing the cost of doing business and providing a secure environment for
private investors. Privatization of commercial companies has halted a long process of
decline. The new owners have initiated a rehabilitation process and these companies are
expected to make a much higher contribution to the economy than in the past.
57.   Budget procedures have improved under SAL HII, but there are still major
drawbacks. The investment budget, prepared under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Planning, is poorly coordinated with the recurrent budget. Sectoral ministries have little
control over the funding of their programs. In preparing their budgets, they tend to use
past allocations as a basis for their submissions. Budget execution is cumbersome and
inefficient with a multiplicity of ex-ante controls. The Public Investment Program is
donor-driven and unwieldy, with as much as 400 projects still listed. The procurement
process is slow and leaves open too many opportunities for corruption. A major effort is
needed to make the government administration more efficient and development-oriented.
58.   The Bank should explore new approaches to improve the effectiveness of donor
assistance in Benin. The proliferation of donor-supported projects, which compete for
scarce management talents, is not the best use of external resources and tends to
undermine local initiatives. A new approach should recognize that, as recent Bank
research has shown, funds are fungible, and that institution building is a key condition
for achieving development objectives in a sustainable way.



15
H. LESSONS FROM EXPERIENCE
59.   When SAL III was prepared, the lack of consensus between the executive and
legislative branches of government was clearly perceived as a potential obstacle to the
timely implementation of the reform program. Under these conditions it would have
been preferable to consider a series of one-tranche adjustment operations to support a
medium term program. This would have introduced more flexibility in the formulation
of triggers for approval of a new credit. It would have also put less pressure on the Bank
for the release of the second tranche, at a time when the Government demonstrated a new
commitment to reform, but did not fully meet the agreed upon conditions. In any event,
special conditions of credit effectiveness should be avoided in adjustment operations.
60.   A  monitoring and evaluation system  should have been designed.  Its
implementation could have been supported by the economic management project
approved one month before SAL III.
61.   Staff continuity on both sides has been an important factor in the quality of the
dialogue at the technical level, which prevailed throughout program implementation,
even at a time when the government commitment to reform was weak.
62.   The unfinished reform agenda is large and should be addressed as a matter of
priority. Actions for the short term include completion of the privatization program and
further simplification of the regulatory framework. Actions for the long term include the
upgrading of the work force and the strengthening of the judiciary. In the social sectors,
the emphasis should be placed on reinforcing community involvement.



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 27270-BEN)
PART H - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of Objectives       Substantial        Partial         Negligible     NotApplicable
Macro Policies                    -____ __
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development                                 N
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction
Gender Issues                                                                            _N
Other Social Objectives              ._N
Environmental Objectives                                                                    N
Public Sector Management                                  N
Private Sector Development                                N
B. Project Sustainability                Likey                Unlikely               Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                 Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                  I                                            _ __ __T__
Preparation Assistance          r                                 N_|_                                |
Appraisal        _              r_ __T_                                                               I
Supervision                    r                                  N         T
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory           Deficient
ImAplesmentation                                 S                   i
Covenant ComplianceN
E. Assesment of Outcome: Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     Highly Unsatisfactory|



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Credit or                      Purpose                          Year of        Status
Loan Title  I__Approval
Preceding Operations
The credit provided fmancial support for Benin's
SAL I         program of economic and financial recovery. The      1989        Closed 1990
program aimed at a fundamental preorientation of
Benin's past development strategy from over emphasis
on state intervention in the economy to greater
reliance on private initiative and market forces.
The Credit provided financial support for the second
SAL II        phase of the Government's Structural Adjustment      1991        Closed 1994
Program. The program's basic objectives were to
create the conditions for a sustainable recovery of
econoniic activity, leading to a growth rate of close to
four percent by 1993, and to improve the provision of
basic social services while protecting vulnerable
groups.
Following Operations
Puiblic        Reforms would concentrate on improving budget                     Under
Expenditure    management by decentralizing budget execution to                preparation
Reform Credit  sectoral ministries and developing programmatic
sectoral budgets.
Table 3: Program Timetable
Steps in project cyde                 Date planned          Date actual I latest
estimate
Initiating Memorandum                                  5194                     1/95
Loan Committee                                          1195                    1/95
Appraisal                                              2/95                   4/10/95
Negotiations                                            4/95                  4/27/95
Board Presentation                                     5/95                   5/23/95
Effectiveness                                          6/95                   2/22/96
First Tranche Release                                 6/30/95                 2/22/96
Second Tranche Release                                3/31/96                 1/13/99
Credit Closing                                        12/31/96                1/29/99
Table 4: Credit Disbursements
(SDR millions)
Tranche I                 Tranche 2
Appraisal Estimate (100% disbursed)                 12.9                       12.9
US$ equivalent (millions)                           18.9                       18.2



18
Table 5: Program Financing
Source                            US$ millions               Original Currency"
IDA                                                        37.2            SDR millions           25.8
Cofmancing Institution:
Belgium                                                 3.2            BEF millions          100.0
Switzerland                                            21.7            CHF millions           18.0
Demairk                                                 3.0            US$ millions            3.0
Other External Sources:
0ECF2'                                                 34.6           JPY millions         3,762.0
Total                                                     102.5
All are 100% disbursed.
v OECF: The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, Japan.
Table 6: Key Economic Indicators, 1990 - 1998
(% unless indicated)
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994    1995    1996    1997   1998"
GDP growth                                 -1.2    4.7    4.0    3.5    4.4         4.6     5.6      5.6      4.4
Total investmnent (% of GDP)               14.2   14.5   13.8   15.4   15.8    19.6    17.1    18.5    16.4
Gross dom. savings (%ofGDP)                 5.5    5.9    4.2    5.2    9.5    10.2         8.8    10.1       8.7
Export growth (GNFS)                        -8.5   24.3   20.6    1.0  -20.0        0.9    13.1      8.9      3.1
Import growth (GNFS)                       46.1    6.2   13.0    0.6  -34.2    35.7         2.1      8.4      6.7
Current account bal. before grants (US$m)  -39.9  -52.4  -97.4  -95.2  -39.6  -128.2  -100.6  -110.4  -112.9
Current account bal. (% of GDP)
Before official grants                  -2.2   -2.8   -4.5   -4.5   -2.6    -6.4   -4.69         -5.2    -4.9
After official grants                    1.0   -0.4   -1.8   -1.5    1.0    -2.9    -2.0    -1.2    -2.6
Total Govemnent revenues (% of GDP)         9.9   11.6   12.3   13.2   12.8    14.9    15.2    14.6    15.3
Total Government expenditures (% of GDP)   19.9   18.9   20.2   17.8   19.8    22.1    19.5    18.8    16.3
Fiscal deficit before grants              -10.0   -7.3   -8.0   -4.6   -7.0    -7.3    -4.3    -4.2    -1.0
Fiscal deficit after grants                 -6.5   -5.6   -5.5   -2.5   -4.9    -5.9    -2.5    -3.1    -0.4
CPlgrowthrate(periodaverage)                1.1    2.1    5.9    0.5   38.6    14.9         4.7      3.8      5.6
"Estimate



19
Table 7: Status of Program Implementation
OBJECTIVES                           MEASURES TO TAKE                       TIMETABLE                   MEASURES TAKEN
L PRIVATE SECTOR
INCENTIVES
Tax and Trade Reform
Expand the tax base, elininate  Introduce a Single Professional Tax.               January 1995      Done
distortions and improve tax
administration                  Introduce a Single Property Tax                    January 1995      Done
Eliminate the Minimum Presumptive Tax.            January 1995       Done
Improve the VAT administration and reduce delays in    In Progress
reimbursing net fiscal credits.
Extend coverage of the VAT to the Petroleum sector.    February 1994  Done
Extend coverage of the VAT to large retail sales.  October 1994      Done
Extend coverage of the VAT to sugar.               April 1995        Done
Replace the special tax on cement by the VAT.      1996              Done (1998)
Revise wages and salaries tax, reducing the number of    June 1995   The nuniber of rates was reduced to 4 and the
rates to 4, and the maximum rate to 35%.                             maximum rate to 40%.
Prepare a draft revision of the general income tax.  September 1995    Postponed
Harmonize protection across     Decrease the number of import tariffs rates from 16  September 1994    Done
sectors according to new import   (ranging from 0 to 63%) to 5 (0%/O, 5%/o, 10%, 15% and
tariff structure                20%)



20
OBJECTIVES                          MEASURES TO TAKE                     TIMETABLE                  MEASURES TAKEN
hncrease the import tax rates to 5% for all goods actually June 1995
taxed at 0% except for rice, cotton, textiles, medicines
and school books.
Eliminate the special regimes granting exemptions from   January 1996  Not applicable as these special regimes were
import tariff duties and the VAT for raw materials and            never implemented.
intermediate goods.
Increase efficiency of the customs  Improve coordination between the customs    1995-1996        In progress.
administration                administration and the unit in charge ofpre-shipment
inspection of imports, including improving the common
database connected to port management operations.
Regulatory Framework
Eliminate distortions to private    Remove the temporary price and margin controls  May 1995     Done
sector activities             introduced at the time of the devaluation.
Abolish fixed prices for all products except bread and    May 1995  Done
petroleum products, and limit ex ante margin controls to
medicines, school supplies, water, electricity and
cement.
Simplify investment incentives,    Simplify and modernize business law through the  1995         The regional business law  was adopted in
further liberalize the labor market  application of the regional texts adopted in the context    January 1998 and effective the same date.
and encourage establishment of    of the business law harmonization treaty.
new firms
Revise the Investment Code to suppress unnecessary  June 1995     A common investment code under preparation at
fiscal exemptions.                                                WAEMU level.



21
I    ~OBJECTIVES                             MEASURES TO TAKE                      TIMETABLE                   MEASURES TAKEN
Revise the Labor Code to simplify hiring and firing  May 1995      A  new  labor code was adopted by the
procedurcs.                                                        Government in 1995 and the National Assembly
in 1998.
Strengthen and modernize the judiciary system    1995-96           An action plan has been adopted by the
Government in 1997 but implementation has not
started.
Adoption by the Parliament of the new procurement  June 1995       Done in February  1996 but adoption  of
code.                                                              implementation decree was delayed to May
1999.
Public Enterprise Divestiture and
Reform
Liberalize the importation and distribution of petroleum
products:
Reduce size of the parastatal  *  revise Decree 93-35 of Feb. 24, 1993, particularly to May 1995   Done
sector                             reduce the mandatory reserve level from 20% of
annual sales to the equivalent of one month sale.
0  revise arret6s to , among other things, decrease the            Done
capital requirements for private companies form
CFAF 100 million to CFAF 25 million, and
suppress restrictions limiting the number of
participants in the oil industry.
*  Transfer SONACOP storage facilities to the    February 1996       SONACOP   signed  in  1998  bilateral
Government and their management to the petroleum                 agreements   with   private   distribution
companies.                                                       companies for the use of SONACOP storage
facilities (1998).



22
OBJECTIVES                         MEASURES TO TAKE                     TIMETABLE                  MEASURES TAKEN
*  Sell by public tender 75% of the service stations.    February 1996  25% of service stations have been offered for
sale by tender . As of end march 1999, 36 out
of 41 service stations have been sold. The sale
for the remaining stations is expected to be
completed shortly.
The contract for the sale of 55% of the capital
of SONACOP to a private investor was signed
in April 1999 and a first payment has been
made. The sale is expected to be completed by
end June 1999.
Convert SONAPRA into a mixed capital company by    June 1995     With the Government decision to fully liberalize
opening its capital to cotton producers.                         the cotton sector, the Bank recommended to
postpone the privatization of SONAPRA.
Complete privatization of the cashew-nut and the citrus   April 1995  Done
industrial complexes, the tomato paste plant, the
Bohicon corn plant, and the Semd oil platform.
Complete divestiture of the State from the La Plage and   December 1995    . The privatization of the hotel "La Plage"
Croix du Sud hotels.                                               management is pending a judicial decision on
land ownership.
. A contract for the privatization of the
management of the hotel "Croix du Sud" was
signed in June 1999.
Liberalize the insurance sector, liquidate SONAR, and    December 1995    The  insurance  sector was  liberalized  in
transfer its viable portfolio to a new company in which          Novenber 1997 and 5 new companies are now
the State would be a minority shareholder.                       operating. SONAR has been put into liquidation
in March 1998 and a new company in which the
State owns 5% of the shares has taken over the
viable portfolio of SONAR.



23
OBJECTIVES                         MEASURES TO TAKE                     TIMETABLE                  MEASURES TAKEN
Complete the divestiture of the State from SONICOG.   March 1996  Plantations have been transferred to producer
cooperatives. SONIGOG's plants were sold by
tender in 1997. The sale of remaining assets is
underway.
Implement divestiture strategy for the textile industry    1995   The strategy has been prepared but not yet
(COTEB and SITEX).                                                adopted by the Government.
Implement divestiture strategy for SSS and SCO.  1995             The management of SSS  and  SCO  was
privatized in 1999.
Liquidate National Investment Fund (FNI), reimburse    August 1996  The FNI was put into liquidation in 1994. As of
contributions corresponding to agreed investments, and            end 1997, CFAF 2.6 billions of contributions
evaluate the option of bond issuance for the outstanding         had been reimbursed. A securitization plan for
contributions.                                                   the CFAF 9.0 billions has been prepared but not
yet approved.
Increase efficiency of parastatal    Reduce costs and increase water and electricity tariffs in  1995-96
sector                        order to eliminate electricity subsidy.
IL IMPROVED PUBLIC
SERVICES
Current expenditures
Improve the structure of current   Eliminate the stock of domestic arrears.    1995-96          CFAF 85 billions of domestic arrears have been
expenditures                                                                                    cleared from 1994 to end 1998. The remaining
stock of domestic arrears as of end June 1998 is
estimated at CFAF 28.5 billions.



24
OBJECTIVES                          MEASURES TO TAKE                     TIMETABLE                  MEASURES TAKEN
Provide adequate allocations for
non-wage operations and
maintenance expenditures, and for Reduce the wage bill as a share of total current
essential public services     expenditures:
*  limit the wage bill to CFAF 50.4 billion in 1995.    December 1994    a  As agreed with IMF, the wage bill reached
CFAF 53.3 billion.
*  limit the wage bill CFAF 54.6 billion in 1996  December 1995    *  As agreed with the IMF, the wage bill
reached CFAF 62.0 billion, 63.0 billion in
1997, and 64.6 billion in 1998.
*  update the computerized payroll file and create a    December 1995    *  The computerized payroll file was regularly
single personnel file with the Civil Service                       updated. A census of civil service was
Department.                                                        carried out in April 1997, but the related
computerized file has not been updated. The
preparation of a single civil serviced file is
underway.
Increase the share of expenditure on supplies and
maintenance:
*  increase maintenance and supplies expenditures to   December 1994    Maintenance and supplies expenditures as a
CFAF 6.7 billion in 1995, 7.5% of the national                 share of current expenditure increased from
current budget (BNF, sections 22, 25 and 28 of the             3.0% in 1995, to 3.1% in 1996, 4.9% in 1997,
General Budget).                                               and 6.6% in 1998.
  maintain the share of expenditure on maintenance    December 1995
and supplies at least 7.5% in 1996.
Assure adequate sectoral budget allocations:
*  increase non-wage current expenditures for   December 1994    Non-wage current expenditure for education
education to CFAF 7.3 billion in 1995, representing            amounted to CFAF 5.9 billion in 1995 or 7.1%
8.2% of the national current budget.                           of the national current budget.
  maintain non-wage current expenditures for   December 1995    Non-wage current expenditure for education
education at least 8.2% of the national current                increased to 7.8% of the national current budget
budget in 1996.                                                in 1996 6.8% in 1997, and 9.3% in 1998.



25
OBJECTIVES                         MEASURES TO TAKE                     TIMETABLE                  MEASURES TAKEN
increase non-wage current expenditures for the  December 1994    Non-wage  current expenditure  for health
health sector to CFAF 5.2 billion in 1995,                    amounted to CFAF 3 billion in 1995 or 3.6% of
representing 5.8% of the national current budget.             the national current budget.
*  maintain noji-wage current expenditures for the  December 1995    Non-wage current expenditure for health as a
health sector at at least 5.8% of the national current        share of the national current budget increased to
budget 1996.                                                  4.6% in 1996, 5.8% in 1997, and 7.3% in 1998.
*  increase road maintenance expenditures (Fonds  December 1994    Road maintenance expenditures amounted to
routier) to CFAF 2.0 billion in 1995                          CFAF 1.8 billion in 1995.
*  increase road maintenance expenditures (Fonds  December 1995    Road maintenance expenditures increased to
routier) to CFAF 2.5 billion in 1996.                         CFAF 2.6 in 1996, 2.1 in 1997, and 2.4 in 1998.
Furnish a quarterly budget execution summary to IDA    1995-96    Done
within 45 days of the end of each quarter.
Public Investments (PIP)      Adopt revised 1995-97 PIP after consultation with the    February 1995  Done
Improve project analysis and  Bank.
programming, and increase public
investment execution rate
Adopt revised 1996-98 PIP after consultation with the    December 1995    Done
Bank.
Establish a special unit in the Ministry of Finance to  April 1995  A new system for managing counterpart funds
ensure adequate monitoring and timely disbursement of             was installed at the Treasury in 1998.
counterpart funds.



26
OBJECTIVES                         MEASURES TO TAKE                      TIMETABLE                  MEASURES TAKEN
Require a feasibility study demonstrating the economic   February 1995  A model to carry out such studies was installed
and financial justification of each project whose total           at the Ministry of Planning in 1998 and is
costs exceed CFAF 2.0 billion beginning with the 1994             marginally used.
PIP.
Public Administration
Increase efficiency of the public    Agreeonactionplanstoimplementrecommendationsof December1995    Action plans were never finalized. A decree
administration                organizational audits of the Ministry of Labor and Social          establishing a new harmonized structure for
Affairs, Ministry of Industry, Ministry of Transport and          Ministries, separating technical from political
Public Works, and Ministry of Energy and Mines.                   functions and reinforcing the departments in
charge of planning was issued in 1996. This
new structure has been implemented in most
Ministries and a Secretaire General with an
unrevocable 5 years assignment has been
designated in most ministries.



27
Table 8: Status of Compliance with Conditions for Second Tranche Release
Loan                                       Description of Covenant                         Comments
Agreement
Section
Schedule 3    In accordance with the Program, the following measures have been taken
I .       In order to ensure an adequate link between producer prices in its cotton industry and
world prices, the Borrower has:
(a) transfonned SONAPRA into a "societe d' economie mixte" within the meaning of   A waiver was granted.
the Companies Act and offered for sale at least one third (1/3) of its capital to
cotton producers;
(b) adopted a mechanism acceptable to the Association to ensure an adequate link  Condition met.
between the price of SONAPRA's seedcotton sales to private gins and the world
market price of cotton fiber,
(c) (i) completed a review of the role of the Stabilization Fund to take account of Condition met.
private sector ginning and exporting of cotton; (ii) furnished to the Association a
report of such review; (iii) exchanged views with the Association on the review
and the report thereof; and (iv) implemented the recommendations of such review
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association; and
(d) completed a review of the feasibility of opening seedcotton marketing to private Condition met.
operators and furnished to the Association a report of such review.
For the purposes of sub-paragraph (a) hereto, the term "offered for sale" means: (i)
carried out an evaluation of SONAPRA stock on the basis, inter alia, of an evaluation of
its assets and liabilities; (ii) prepared a prospectus for distribution to cotton producers;
and (iii) solicited offers for the purchase of share capital.
2.        For the purposes of liberalizing its petroleumn sector, the Borrower has:
(a) transferred the ownership of all petroleum storage facilities from SONACOP to A waiver was granted.
itself and concluded either a long-term lease or a management transfer
arrangement acceptable to the Association for such facilities with oil import and
distribution companies;
(b) offered for sale by tender to the private sector purchasers seventy five percent  Condition substantially met.
(75%) of the service stations held by SONACOP; and
(c) completed the sale of fifty percent (50%) of the service stations held by  Condition substantially met
SONACOP to the private sectorpurchasers.
For the purposes of this paragraph, "completed the sale" means (i) signed a sales
contract with a purchaser, and (ii) taken all steps within its control to transfer the assets
of the service station to such purchaser.
3.        The Borrower has implemented its Fiscal Year 1995 budget in accordance with the  Condition met.
expenditure targets specified in paragraph 35 of the Letter of Development Policy and
adopted a budget for Fiscal Year 1996 based on the allocations specified in such
paragraph.
4.        The Borrower has approved a three year rolling public investment program for Fiscal    Condition met.
Year 1996 to Fiscal Year 1998 acceptable to the Association and has carried out the
applicable portion thereof as approved.



28
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan Agreement lDescription of Covenant                                                   |    Comments
Section      ll
Article III         Particular covenants related to progress monitoring, review, reporting, and
accounting.
Section 3.01 (a)    The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either Complied
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in Schedule 3 of this Agreement.
Section 3.01.(b)    Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the  Complied
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
canying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
Section 3.01 (c)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the  Complied
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to
be taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the
Program, including any action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02 (a)    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods to be   Complied
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03 (a)    The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts  Not applicable
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.03 (b)    The Borrower shall:
Section 3.03 (b) (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each  Not applicable
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; and
Section 3.03 (b) (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four  Not applicable
months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and                                                     __
Section 3.03 (b) (iii)  fumnish to the Association such other information concernng said records and  Not applicable
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request
Section 3.03 (c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Section 3.03 (c) (i)  -maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this  Not applicable
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Section 3.03 (c) (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit report    Not applicable
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents,
or customs certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
Section 3.03 (c) (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; and  Not applicable
Section 3.03 (c) (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audits referred to Not applicable
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.



29
Table 10: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle  .              Staff Weeks                 US$'000
Preparation of Appraisal                9/94             60.3                      156.5
Apprisal                                2/95             12.0                      57.1
Negotiations through Board Approval  4/95 - 5/95         13.8                       38.1
Supervision                          5/96 - 10/98        171.9                     438.2
Completion                          2/99 - 06/99          3.2                       17.0
Total                             _                      261.2                     706.9
Table 11: Bank Resources - Staff Missions
Stage of the Project Cycle        Month/Year               Number of Persons         Days in Field
Identification
Preappraisal                           12/94                         5                      12
Appraisal                             04/95                          5                      12
Supervision                            5/96                          3                      10
Supervision                            12/96                         3                      10
Supervision                            3/97                          1                      15
Supervision                            9/97                          3                      10
Supervision                            2/98                          2                      10
Supervision                            10/98                         2                      5
Completion                             2/99                          1                      5



30
APPENDIX A
REPUBLIQUE DU BENIN
TROISIEME CREDIT D'AJUSTEMENT STRUCTUREL
(Credit 27270-BEN)
MISSION DU 14 AU 21 FEVRIER 1999
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    Une mission composee de M. J6r6me Chevallier, consultant, s'est rendue au
Benin du 14 au 21 f6vrier 1999 pour pr6parer le raport d'achevement pour le troisieme
credit d'ajustement finance par la Banque mondiale. Le Secretariat Technique du
Programme d'Ajustement Structurel a organise des rencontres avec les representants de
tous les ministeres et organismes concemrs par le programme. La mission exprime ses
remerciements pour la disponibilite des participants et pour la qualite des discussions. La
mission a egalement rencontre des representants du secteur prive et des bailleurs de
fonds.
2.    Le troisieme credit d'ajustement structurel de la Banque mondiale d'un montant
de 40 millions de dollars a ete approuve le 3 juin 1995, mis en vigueur le 22 fevrier 1996
et clos le 29 janvier 1999, plus de deux ans apres la date initiale de cl6ture. Plusieurs
bailleurs de fonds tant bilateraux que multilateraux ont cofinance le troisieme programme
d'ajustement structurel (PAS 3). La contribution de tous les bailleurs de fonds au cours
des trois annes 1996-98 est considerable puisqu'elle represente plus de 70 pourcent des
depenses courantes du Benin en 1998. Le PAS 3 avait pour objectifs de favoriser la
relance de l'economie et d'ameliorer la foumiture des services publics de base au profit
de la population. Le cr6dit devait consolider et accelerer les reformes engagees par le
B6nin depuis 1989, de telle sorte que son economie maintienne la competitivite qu'elle
avait retrouvee grace a la devaluation du franc CFA en janvier 1994.
3.    Les benefices escomptes du PAS 3 ont ete definis en termes generaux et n'ont pas
ete chiffres. 11 est donc impossible de comparer l'impact du programme avec les
previsions. Il est clair cependant que la croissance au Benin s'est acceleree en 1996 et
1997 et que les services de base se sont amelior6s au cours des demieres annees. De
facon plus generale, le programme de reformes economiques engage depuis 1989 a
permis au Benin d'assainir sa situation financiere, de renouer avec une croissance
soutenue et de retablir les services publics de base. Il y a dix ans le Benin etait en etat de
faillite, tant sur le plan financier, qu'economique et social. Le changement dans ces dix
dernieres annees a ete remarquable. L'economie du Benin reste cependant encore tres
vulnerable aux chocs exterieurs, comme on a pu le voir en 1998 avec la crise energetique
et maintenant avec la baisse des cours du coton suite a la crise asiatique.
4.    L'investissement prive s'est considerablement accru pendant les demieres annees.
Sa part dans le PIB a double entre 1990-92 et 1997 pour atteindre environ 12 pourcent.



31
APPENDIX A
Pour assurer une croissance forte et soutenue, permettant d'ameliorer la situation de
l'emploi et les revenus de la population, il serait souhaitable que ce taux soit de nouveau
double dans un avenir proche. Pour cela, il est important de revoir tout ce qui emp&he
les investisseurs potentiels de concretiser leurs projets.  De l'avis de tous les
observateurs, la faible performance et le cout eleve des services tels que le port,
l'electricite et les telecommunications sont des obstacles au developpement de
l'investissement prive au Benin. Il serait utile de revoir en detail le cofut des facteurs au
Benin et de les comparer avec ceux des pays qui sont en competition avec le B6nin sur
les marches intemationaux.
5.    Lors de la preparation du troisieme credit d'ajustement structurel, trois risques
principaux avaient et envisages. Tout d'abord on craignait que l'absence de consensus
entre le Gouvernement et le Parlement se traduise par des retards dans la mise en oeuvre
du programme. Ce risque s'est effectivement mat6rialise. C'est ainsi que la mise en
vigueur du credit a ete considerablement retardee en raison des reticences du Parlement
en annee pre-electorale a ratifier le credit et a approuver un nouveau code des marches
publics. On peut constater a cet egard, que la promulgation de ce code, qui avait deja et
une condition dans le cadre du deuxieme credit d'ajustement structurel, n'a pour le
moment eu aucun impact sur la passation des marches publics, qui souffre encore de
graves insuffisances. Les decrets d'application n'ont toujours pas et pris. Le deuxieme
risque envisage 6tait, qu'en raison d'une faible capacite administrative, des retards soient
enregistres dans l'execution du programme.  Ce risque s'est lui aussi materialise.
L'execution du programme a pris bien plus de temps que prevu initialement. Le
troisieme risque tenait aux incertitudes liees a l'evolution du Nigeria. Dans l'ensemble,
cependant, la situation au Nigeria n'a pas eu d'implications negatives significatives sur
l'execution du programme.
6.    La plupart des reformes inclues dans le programme ont ete realisees. Le regime
fiscal et douanier a et reforme en profondeur. Le cadre reglementaire a et modifie avec
la mise en oeuvre tout a fait satisfaisante d'un nouveau code du travail et d'un nouveau
code de commerce dans le cadre de l'OHADA. Un nouveau code des investissements
commun a tous les pays de l'UEMOA est en preparation. Un guichet unique pour les
investisseurs a ete etabli par la Chambre de Commerce de d'Industrie. La concertation
entre l'administration et le secteur prive s'est consid6rablement amelioree. Elle est
maintenant bien etablie, ce qui permet au secteur prive de faire entendre sa voix avant
que le Gouvemement ne prenne des decisions qui pourraient l'affecter. Le programme
de privatisation s'est poursuivi et les resultats sont dans l'ensemble tout a fait positifs.
La privatisation de la compagnie nationale des petroles (SONACOP) est en cours et les
vives controverses que cette privatisation avait suscitees se sont calmees. La reforme de
la filibre coton n'a pas vraiment avance par contre. Les producteurs b6neficient d'une
part plus grande du prix a l'exportation que dans le passe, ce qui a sensiblement am6liore
leurs revenus. La filiere a ete entrouverte. C'est ainsi que des operateurs ont ete
autorises a etablir des usines d'egrenage et autorises a vendre les intrants aux paysans,
mais les conditions dans lesquelles le monopole de la SONAPRA a et modifie risquent
d'avoir des consequences negatives sur la production cotoniere en 1998-99 et de rendre



32
APPENDIX A
plus difficile la liberalisation de la campagne coton que le Gouvemement envisage pour
2000/01.
7.    Des progres substantiels ont et realises dans la gestion des ressources publiques
en faveur du d6veloppement. Les allocations pour les secteurs prioritaires, 6ducation,
sante et entretien routier ont ete sensiblement accrues et le taux d'execution du budget
dans ces secteurs s'est considerablement ameliore.  L'elimination de la periode
complementaire en 1997 a permis d'arreter les errements du pass6 qui autorisaient les
services a continuer de depenser au titre des budgets des annes precedentes.  Le
fonctionnement des services s'est ameliore avec l'augmentation de leurs moyens. Ces
moyens sont cependant encore trop souvent fournis dans le cadre des projets par l'aide
exterieure. La part de la masse salariale dans le budget qui 6tait de 80 pourcent en 1989
n'6tait plus que de 48 pourcent en 1997. Le programme d'investisements publics est
devenu plus rigoureux, mais son taux d'execution ne s'est pas ameliore. II y a encore
trop de projets dans le programnme (400 environ) et il serait hautement souhaitable de les
consolider. La reforme administrative est en cours. La structure des ministeres est
devenue plus fonctionnelle avec 1'etablissement de secretariats generaux et de directions
de la planification.
8 .    La mission estime que les reultats du troisieme programme d'ajustement sont
satisfaisants et qu'il est probable que les changements apportes seront durables. Au cours
du programme les mentalites ont beaucoup evolue, meme s'il reste encore beaucoup a
faire pour convaincre un certain nombre de responsables de la necessite du changement.
Le developpement des institutions ne figurait pas de facon explicite parmi les objectifs du
programme. Les resultats dans ce domaine sont limites.
9.    La mission va maintenant etablir son rapport qui sera envoye aux autorites
beninoises et aux bailleurs de fonds qui ont contribue au financement du programme
pour observations. La partie beninoise est en train de preparer son rapport d'achevement,
qui pourrait etre disponible des la fin du mois de mars 1999. Le rapport final, y compris
la contribution beninoise, sera envoye au Conseil d'administration de la Bauque
mondiale avant la fm juin 1999.
Cotonou le 19 fevrier 1999



33
APPENDIX B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 27270-BEN)
SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
1. In order to improve the health of its economy and ensure strong and sustainable
economic growth, since 1989 Benin has been implementing structural adjustment
programs developed with the Bretton Woods institutions.
2. With a view to pursuing the reforms introduced under the first and second programs,
concluded in 1989 and 1991 respectively, Benin signed a third structural adjustment
credit with the World Bank in 1995.
3. This third adjustment credit was to provide Benin with SDR 40 million in financial
support from the World Bank, to be disbursed in two tranches of US$ 20 million each.
4. The program was scheduled to last two (2) years, from June 1995 to May 1997, but
was not completed until January 1999.
1. The main objectives of the program were as follows:
B Bring about a more marked reduction of internal and external imbalances;
Maintain a sustained 5-6 per cent annual GDP growth;
* Limit the annual inflation rate at 3 per cent;
* Increase the rates of investment spending and domestic savings to 16.5 per cent
of GDP and 11 per cent respectively;
* Reduce the external deficit (excluding grants) to 5.5 per cent of GDP.
6. The program also called for continuing reforms already underway, including those
affecting public finance, public enterprise through Government divestiture, the banking
and monetary sector, agricultural, civil service, energy, judicial, education, and health
sectors, among others.
7. Unlike the earlier programs, which were adopted via ratification by the National
Assembly, SAL I1I was rejected by the National Assembly and was adopted via an
ordinance enacted by the President of the Republic on January 31, 1996.



34
APPENDIX B
8. Program implementation yielded the following results:
* On average, the growth rate during the period exceeded 5.2 per cent, except in
1998 when it was 4.4 per cent. This decline was caused primarily by the energy
crisis which occurred during the first half of the year.
 Inflation rates were 15 per cent in 1995, 4.7 per cent in 1996, 3.8 per cent in
1997, and 5.6 per cent in 1998.
* In 1998, the savings and investment rates were 11.5 per cent and 16.4 per cent
respectively.
9. Fiscal consolidation and budget reform continued, resulting in a marked increase in
budget revenues, from 14.9 per cent of GDP in 1995 to 15.4 per cent in 1998.
Government expenditure contracted, representing only 17 per cent of GDP in 1998
compared with 22.1 per cent in 1995. The primary balance improved considerably, and
the overall deficit declined substantially.
10. Settlement of internal arrears continued throughout the period, ultimately amounting
to CFAF 69.9 billion.
11. Benin approached the Paris Club again in 1996, an effort that resulted in debt
cancellations by its major donors amounting to CFAF 47 billion.
12. In the banking sector, the restructuring and liquidation of older banks continued.
These steps and the establishment of new banks restored confidence in Cotonou's role as
a financial center.
13. With the liberalization of Benin's economy well underway, the Government went on
to introduce additional divestiture programs focusing on:
* Liberalization of the petroleum sector;
* Partial opening of the equity of SONACOP to private investors;
* Privatization of the fire, accident, and other risks component of the insurance
sector;
* Complete privatization of SONICOG's processing units and transfer of its oil
palm plantations to agricultural cooperatives;
* Definition of a strategy to revitalize the textile sector (SITEX and COTEB);
* Establishment of lease management arrangements for SSS and SCO;
* Restructuring of the Postal and Telecommunications Office (OPT), the Benin
Office of Social Security (OBSS), and the Autonomous Port of Cotonou (PAC).
14. The Government also launched a series of structural reforms in various sectors
within the framework of this program:



35
APPENDIX B
* Greater authority was delegated to local governments and local administration
in order to increase decentralization.
* Measures were adopted to enhance the efficiency of the civil service.
* A review of public expenditures was undertaken in such sectors as education,
health, and transportation etc.
* Mechanisms were introduced to promote private sector development.
* The price control system was overhauled.
* Agricultural sector reforms were pursued, particularly in the cotton sector:
producer prices for seed cotton increased from CFAF 200/kg to CFAF 222/kg
and ginning was opened up to private operators.
*  The labor and investment codes were revised.
* Additional financial support was provided to microprojects and small and
medium-size companies.
15. All in all, program implementation enabled Benin to mobilize financing from its
development partners amounting to CFAF 114.6 billion, with the World Bank providing
CFAF 21.68 billion of that amount.
16. Substantial and highly encouraging results were registered in the course of program
execution. In particular, they helped to stabilize the economy and reduce economic and
financial imbalances.
17. These achievements notwithstanding, difficulties persist, as indicated below:
 Unemployment continues to be a problem, and is particularly acute among
youth.
* Inappropriate strategies were followed in some sectors (the cotton sector is one
example), leaving the reform process incomplete.
* State monopolies were replaced by private monopolies in some instances.
* Domestic and foreign private investors have shown scant interest,
notwithstanding the far-reaching reforms introduced to encourage them to
invest.
* Continuing inflexibility in certain sectors is dampening economic development.
* Reforms in some sectors - the judicial system, for one - have proved
inadequate.
18. In order to prevent these shortcomings from undermining the results achieved and
jeopardizing the reforms introduced, the reforms must be completed or deepened.
Accordingly, the country's development partners should continue to provide support to
Benin.



