Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6573-BEN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED TRIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 25.8 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BENIN
APRIL 27, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =  CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            =  CFAF 529
US$1.00            =  SDR 0.64
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         -    African Development Bank
BCEAO        -    Banque des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BMF          -   Minimum Presumptive Tax (Benefice Minimum Forfaitaire)
BOAD         -    West Africa Development Bank
CARDERs   -    Regional Development Organizations
CAS          -    Country Assistance Strategy
COTEB        -    Textile Company
CPI          -    Consumer Price Index
ESAF         -    Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU           -    European Union
FIAS         -    Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FNI          -    National Investment Fund (Fonds National d'Investissement)
GDP          -    Gross Domestic Product
ICB          -    International Competitive Bidding
IFC          -    International Finance Corporation
IGR          -    General Income Tax (Impot Gdneral sur le Revenu)
IMF          -    International Monetary Fund
IPTS         -    Tax on Wages and Salaries (Impot Progressif sur les traitements et
les salaires)
MIGA         -    Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
PIP          -    Public Investment Program
PFP          -   Policy Framework Paper
SAC          -    Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF          -    Structural Adjustment Facility
SCO          -    Onigbolo Cement Company
SITC         -    Standard International Trade Classification
SITEX        -    Textile Company
SOE          -    Statement of Expenditure
SONACOP   -    Petroleum Company
SONAPRA    -    Cotton Company
SONAR        -    National Insurance Company
SONICOG    -    Palm Oil Company
SSS          -    Savd Sugar Company
TFU          -    Single Property Tax (Taxe Fonci&e Unique)
TPU          -    Single Professional Tax (Taxe Profesionnelle Unique)
UEMOA        -    West African Economic and Monetary Union
UNDP         -   United Nations Development Programme
VAT          -    Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROGRAM  SUMMARY  .................................................... ii
1. THE ECONOMY .....................................................                                                                             1
A. Background .....................................................1
B. Recent Economic Performance  .....................................................2
C. Poverty ..................................................3
D. Medium  Term  Prospects  ................................................4
II. BENIN'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ....................................................5
A. Macroeconomic Framework  ....................................................                                                     S5
B. Private Sector Incentives .....................................................6
Tax and Trade Reform   .....................................................6
Regulatory Framework  .....................................................8
Public Enterprises  ....................................................9
C.  Improved Public Services ....................................................  10
Current Expenditures .....................................................11
Public Investment .....................................................11
Public Administration Reform  ....................................................                                     12
III. THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT ........................................ 13
A. SAC m Program and Link to CAS ....................................................                                              13
B. PovertyImpact ....................................................                                                              13
C.  Credit Amount and Proposed conditionality ....................................................                                 14
D. Procurement, Disbursement, Financial Management and Auditing .............................. 15
B. BenefitsandRisks ....................................................                                                            16
IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS ....................................................                                                                 17
V. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS .............................................. 17
VI. RECOMMENDATION ....................................................                                                                         18
ANNEXES
Annex A: Social ndicators
Annex B: Key Economic Indicators
Annex C: External Financing Requirements, 1992-1997
Annex D: Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex E: Policy Matrix
Annex F: Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Annex G: Letter of Development Policy
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- 11 -
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Beneficiary:        Republic of Benin
Amount:             SDR 25.8 million (US$40 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Description:        The proposed operation would support implementation of key accompanying
measures designed to strengthen the supply response to the devaluation of the CFA
franc and to consolidate reforms initiated since 1990.  In particular, the
devaluation has provided Benin the opportunity both to accelerate reforms that
were constrained by the previous overvaluation - such as lower import tariff
protection and privatization of previously uncompetitive enterprises - and to
generate a greater supply response from the measures taken since 1990.  The
Government's overall adjustment program is outlined in the PFP distributed to the
Executive Directors in April 1995. The proposed SAC III would support the
Government's efforts to maintain a substantial real depreciation through
appropriate macroeconomic policies, assure a strong supply response to the
devaluation, and improve the delivery of essential public services required for
higher growth in the medium-term. The adjustment package proposed under the
operation consists of an acceleration of fundamental policy reforms in two areas.
First, the proposed SAC IL would support improved incentives for private sector
development through further simplification and rationalization of foreign trade
taxation, a deeper restructuring of domestic indirect and direct taxation, additional
changes in the regulations governing commercial activity, investment and the labor
market, and public enterprise divestiture. Second, it would support improved
management of public resources and delivery of public services by restructuring
current expenditures, improving public investment programming and execution,
and reorganizing key ministries. The Government's Letter of Development Policy
is attached as Annex G.
Benefits:           The proposed credit would support policies designed to accelerate broad-based
income growth and increase the availability and quality of basic social services.
With regard to income growth, one of the most important impacts of the
devaluation and accompanying measures should be a sustained increase in the
demand for labor, which is the most important asset of the poor. The proposed
operation would support restoration of internal and external financial equilibria
through its impact on the budget and external trade.  It would support
implementation of the accompanying measures - including tax, trade and
regulatory reform - required to realize the opportunities for improved
competitiveness and accelerated growth offered by the devaluation of the CFA
franc. The proposed restructuring of public expenditures and associated resource
management reforms would increase the availability of essential health, education,



and infiastructure services, which are expected to be particularly beneficial for the
poorest segments of the population.
Estimated
Disbursement:        The credit would be disbursed in two tranches of US$20 million each. The first
tranche would be disbursed immediately after effectiveness. The second tranche is
expected to be disbursed nine months later, subject to satisfactory fulfillment of
the specified conditions. Retroactive financing for up to 20 percent of the credit
amount would be permitted for eligible imports made not more than four months
prior to credit signature.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Not applicable
Map:                 Not applicable



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BENIN
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC III) to the Republic of Benin for, SDR 25.8 million, the equivalent of US$40
million. This credit would be on standard IDA terms, with an amortizafion period of 40 years including a
grace period of 10 years. The proposed operation would support implementation of accompanying
measures designed to strengthen the supply response to the devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994
and consolidate reforms initiated under previous operations. These measures are an integral part of the
Government's overall reform program outlined in the medium-term Policy Framework Paper (PFP) which
will be distributed to the Executive Directors in May 1995. Benin's adjustment efforts are supported by
the IMF through a three year ESAF, under which the third annual arrangement is expected to be approved
in May 1995. Significant support is also provided by the European Union (EU), the African Development
Bank and bilateral donors including France, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and the United
States.
I. THE ECONOMY
A. Background
2.    Benin adopted an adjustment program in 1989 in response to an economic and financial crisis
enendered by almost two decades of state domination and mismanagement of the economy. The first
phase of Benin's adjustment program (1989-90), supported by SAC I and an IMF SAF arrangement,
focused on reducing macroeconomic imbalances and initiating market liberalization. Key objectives
included reducing the fiscal deficit, initiating a public enterprise divestiture program, and managing the
crisis engendered by the collapse of the state-owned banks. Implementation of the program was severely
hampered by political disturbances in 1989 which led to a breakdown of the public administration and a
dramatic decline in government revenues. The economic crisis was accompanied by a period of
sociopolitical turmoil culminating in the naming of a transition government in March 1990. Considerable
progress was realized in 1990, particularly with regard to public enterprise divestiture and restoration of a
functioning banking system.
3.    Multi-party elections in February/March 1991 and installation of a new President and National
Assembly in April 1991 were followed rapidly by a reinforcement of the economic reform program. The
second phase of the adjustment program (1991-93), initiated by the newly-elected Government and
supported by SAC II and IMF SAF/ESAF programs, focused on the reduction of the current budget deficit,
widespread market liberalization, and further public enterprise divestiture. Implementation of the program
was broadly satisfactory and Beni was one of the few CFA countries which maintained Bank- and IMF-
supported programs in the early 1990s. The third and final tranche of SAC II was released in August
1994.
4.    The proposed credit would support Benin's adjustment program as described in Part II of this
report. The devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 removed a major constraint on the supply
response to Benin's adjustment efforts. The proposed operation would, in addition to supporting



-2 -
macroeconomic policies designed to assure maintenance of a real depreciation and consolidating past
reforms, focus on the two most important elements for realizing a supply response to the devaluation and
accelerating broad-based growth, namely reducing distortions to private sector incentives and improvmg
public services. Barring unforeseen external shocks, such as a dramatic decline in world cotton prices, and
assuming full implementation of the proposed reforms, Benin is not expected to require additional
exceptional balance of payments financing. Given its relatively strong past adjustment performance, the
successful devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994, and the reform measures proposed for 1995-96, the
results of which are reflected in the projected financing requirements, additional adjustment lending for
Benin beyond the proposed credit is not envisaged. Continued economic reforms in key sectors would be
pursued primarily through sector investment operations.
B. Recent Economic Performance
5.    Pre-Devaluaton Adjustmcnt. Real GDP growth more than doubled from less than 2 percent per
year in the 1980s to 4 percent per year during 1990-93. Inflation, as measured by the GDP deflator,
remained below 3 percent through 1993. Gross domestic savings increased from an average of I percent of
GDP in the 1980s to about 4 percent of GDP in 1990-93. Finally, despite considerable annual variations,
gross domestic fixed investment averaged about 14 percent of GDP in both the 1980s and the 1990-93
period. The private sector share of investment rose, however, from a low of 36 percent in 1989 to 45
percent in 1993.
6.    The increase in domestic savings was driven by higher government revenues and a reduction in
public expenditures. In particular, government revenues grew steadily from less than 9 percent of GDP in
1989 to almost 13 percent of GDP in 1993, while expenditures declined from 20 percent to 18 percent of
GDP. As a result, the overall budget deficit was halved from 10 percent of GDP in 1989 to 5 percent of
GDP in 1993, and the current budget moved from a deficit of 5 percent of GDP in 1989 to a balanced
position in 1993.
7.    Despite a relatively strong adjustment program and improved fiscal performance in the 1990s,
Benin's external position remained fragile as a result of an appreciation of the real effective exchange rate
by 24 percent and a decline in the terms of trade of 43 percent over the period 1985-93. The internal
adjustment process pursued by Benin was nonetheless relatively successful. Annual export revenues
increased at an average rate of about 5 percent per year during 1990-93, and the current account deficit
was contained at 8 percent of GDP in 1993. Official foreign reserves rose substantially as a result of large
official capital inflows and reached the equivalent of 4.2 months of imports in 1993.
8.    In relation to GDP, external debt disbursed and outstanding remained relatively stable, increasing
from 66 percent in 1990 to 68 percent in 1993. The share of multilateral debt rose slightly from 47 percent
of the total stock of debt in 1990 to 49 percent in 1993, reflecting the switch of most official bilateral aid
to grants and the expansion of lending operations from multilateral institutions. Debt service has been
reduced by Paris Club rescheduling. Taking into account the debt relief obtained or under negotiation, debt
service paid during 1991-93 corresponds to less than 10 percent of exports of goods and non-factor
services.
9.    Post-Devaluaton Trends. Trends since the CFA franc devaluation are positive. Real GDP
growth for 1994, originally projected at 2.2 percent, is estimated to have reached 3.4 percent, mainly as a
result of the strong performance of the cotton sub-sector. The current account deficit (before grants) fell
from 8 percent of GDP in 1993 to 3 percent of GDP in 1994, reflecting both a sharp decline in imports and



- 3 -
increased export revenues. The overall balance of payments recorded a surplus of USS99 million, due to
the improved current account and increased private capital inflows. Both the revenue and expenditure
targets were met and the current budget remained in balance. The overall budget deficit (on a commitment
basis, excluding grants) was limited to 7 percent of GDP, about four percentage points less than the PFP
target.
10.   The inflation target for 1994 was, however, not met. The cumulative 12-month increase in the
consumer price index (CPI) for Cotonou, the capital city, was 54 percent in 1994. After the initial
adjustment in the price level following the devaluation, the CPI declined slightly in the May-August period.
Average monthly inflation, however, was more than 3 percent in the September-December period. Although
the CPI has numerous technical problems, this increase is worrisome and is probably related to greater
monetary expansion than programmed as a result of a large increase in net foreign assets, an acceleration of
1994 budget execution in September following delayed approval of the 1994 budget law, and a surge in
food exports to neighboring countries. The CPI for the first quarter of 1995 was marginally lower than
that for December 1994. France and the European Union are providing assistance to improve the CPI and
future price developments will continue to be monitored closely.
C. Poverty
11.   A poverty assessment report (Benin: Toward a Poverty Alleviation Strategy, Report No. 12706-
BEN) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1994. In 1993 GNP per capita was US$411
(Atlas methodology), malnutrition affected 30 percent of children, the illiteracy rate was 71 percent and the
gross primary school enrollment rate was 66 percent. Fifteen percent of the population fell below an
absolute poverty line established on the basis of minimum nutritional requirements and other basic
expenses (equivalent to US$131). According to the human development index used by UNDP, Benin is one
of the ten least developed countries in the world. Although the percentage of children enrolled in primary
school has approximately doubled over the last twenty years, it is still only the average for Sub-Saharan
Africa and only two-thirds the average for low-income countries. Similarly, while the infant mortality rate
(110 per thousand) has declined by 30 percent over the last 20 years, it still remains 50 percent above the
average for low-income countries.
12.   The failure to adopt major economic reforms in the 1980s led to the economic crisis at the end of
the decade and demonstrated clearly that the social impact of the adjustment program is strikingly positive.
In the late 1980s salaries went unpaid, schools and health facilities deteriorated dramatically, medicine was
unavailable, and the banking system collapsed. Salaries are now paid on time, access to primary education
and health services is improving, essential medicines are widely available, rural incomes have increased
substantially, and the banking system has been restored. As a result, per capita incomes have increased
since introduction of the adjustment program, albeit from a very low base. After declining by about 2
percent per year in 1985-1989, GDP per capita increased by about 1 percent per year in 1990-1993. While
this is clearly an improvement and constitutes the best performance in the CFA zone, at this rate of per
capita income growth it would take some 45 years for Benin to move from a low-income to middle-income
country. Only a large and sustained increase in income growth can significantly reduce the level of poverty
in Benin. The Government policies described in Part I are designed to take advantage of the opportunity
offered by the devaluation to achieve such broad-based growth, primarily by increasing the demand for
labor which is the most important asset of poor households. The large increase in cotton production in
recent years, and the resulting improvement in the income and living standards of rural households in
cotton-growing areas, augurs well in this regard.



-4 -
13.   Targeted poverty alleviation programs have also been underway since 1991 for rehabilitation of
critical social infrastructure, redeployment and training of retrenched public enterprise employees, and
labor-intensive public works. Some progress has also been made in providing essential services to the
general population. In particular, by increasing resources for primary education, schooling has become
more accessible to the poor. In addition, girls were exempted from 1993/94 school fees in the rural areas in
an attempt to increase their enrollment rate. There has also been progress in increasing health coverage
nationwide and ensuring the viability of the health system. The establishment of a financially autonomous
central pharmaceutical supply agency has made essential drugs more widely available for the general
population at low cost. A poverty alleviation strategy has been designed by the Government, with the
assistance of the donor community, to strengthen the national capacity to formulate and implement social
policies, monitor the living conditions of vulnerable groups, promote employment, and support community-
based development through micro-projects.
D. Medium Term Prospects
14.   Past reforns, including the CFA  franc devaluation, and strong implementation of the
Govermnent's adjustment program outlined in Part I1, are projected to accelerate real GDP growth to 5-6
percent per year beginning in 1995, assuming continued strong performance of cotton and an overall
increase in gross investment from 15 percent of GDP in 1993 to about 20 percent of GDP in 1999.
15.   Annual growth of 5-6 percent is projected for the agriculture sector over the period 1995-99, with
the cotton subsector leading the expansion. Efforts to rehabilitate and liberalize the subsector will
concentrate on expanding private ginning and storage capacity, and promoting greater participation of the
private sector in processing and marketing activities, in order to ensure more competition. Improved
competitiveness should also enhance the growth prospects of food crops, fruits and vegetables. Efforts to
diversify agriculture production will also be intensified by creating a more favorable environment with
regard to agriculture extension, infrastructure and private sector marketing and export activities.
16.   The secondary sector is projected to grow at about 6 percent per year during the period 1995-1999,
based on substantially improved export prospects following the devaluation. Efficient production growth
will be fostered by further privatization and restructuring of public sector enterprises, fiscal reforms and a
revision of the regulatory framework. These measures, combined with increased competitiveness in the
regional transit trade and implementation of a new transport strategy, should also benefit the development
of tertiary sector activities, which are projected to grow by about 5 percent annually during the period
1995-1999.
17.   Achieving the projected growth rates will require increases in private investment from an average
of 6 percent of GDP in 1990-94 to about 12 percent of GDP by 1999, and maintenance of public
investment at about 9 percent of GDP in 1995-99, as well as qualitative improvements in the preparation
and execution of public investment projects. Domestic savings are estimated to have increased from 5
percent of GDP in 1993 to 10 percent of GDP in 1994, and are projected to grow to approximately 15
percent of GDP by 1999, reflecting an increase in both public and private savings as a result of renewed
confidence in the political and economic situation, improved fiscal management, and more opportunities for
investment.
18.   The volume of exports, excluding re-exports, is expected to grow by about 10 percent per year in
1995-99. Export receipts, excluding re-exports, are projected to grow by about 12 percent per year during
1995-99. The volume of imports, excluding re-exports, is expected to grow by about 10 percent per
year in 1995-99, reflecting mainly an increase in capital goods imports consistent with the projected



investment growth. The value of imports, excluding re-exports, is projected to grow by about 11 percent
per year in 1995-99. Following the dramatic improvement in 1994, the current account deficit, excluding
official grants, is expected to decline from about 5 percent of GDP in 1995 to 4 percent of GDP in 1999.
19.   External FinancingRequirements. Financing requirements for the period 1995-97 are estimated
at a total of US$738 million. These requirements are expected to be partly met by project grants (US$235
million), project loans (US$231 million), and debt relief already obtained (US$18 million), leaving a gross
financing gap of USS254 million. Exceptional financing to cover this gap has been identified, including
IMF ESAF resources of US$26 million in 1995, expected bilateral financing of US$107 million, additional
debt relief of US$78 million, and IDA assistance of US$43 million, including the proposed credit of US$40
million.
II. BENIN'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
20.   The Government, in conjunction with the other members of the CFA zone, decided to reinforce its
internal adjustment measures by realigning the parity of the CFA franc in January 1994. The devaluation
has improved prospects for accelerating sustainable growth in the medium term. The Government
recognizes, nevertheless, that despite the progress registered during the last years long-term economic
prospects remain fragile. Increased savings and investment, particularly by the private sector, and
improved delivery of essential health, education and infrastructure services by the public sector will be key
to improving long-term growth prospects.
21.   The proposed SAC m  would support the Government's efforts to mnaintain a substantial real
depreciation through appropriate macroeconomic policies, assure a strong supply response to the
devaluation, and improve the delivery of essential public services required for higher growth in the medium-
term. The Government's overall adjustment program is outlined in the PFP. The basic macroeconomic
objectives of the program are to raise the rate of GDP growth to 5-6 percent in 1995-96, to reduce inflation
to about 4 percent by 1996, and to reduce the current account deficit to a level that can be sustained by the
projected inflow of external assistance.
22.   The adjustment package proposed under SAC III consists of an acceleration of fundamental policy
reforms in two areas. First, the program would support improved incentives for private sector development
through simplification and rationalization of foreign trade taxation; a restructuring of domestic indirect and
direct taxation; changes in the regulatory framework governing investment, commercial activity and the
labor market; and completion of ongoing pubic enterprise divestiture. Second, it would support improved
management of public resources and delivery of public services through restructuring current expenditures,
improving public investment programming and execution, and implementing reforms in key ministries.
These reforms are closely linked to the changed economic prospects brought about by the devaluation. The
changed relative prices and improved prospects for public finances brought about by the devaluation make
it more feasible to introduce measures, such as reduced tariff barriers, tax reform, and expenditure
restructuring, which were more problematic prior to the devaluation. Implementation of such reforms will
be essential to realize the potential benefits associated with the devaluation and improved competitiveness.
A. Macroeconomic Framework
23.   The reforms supported by the proposed credit are a key element of the Government's PFP program.
Implementation of the structural changes proposed will be key to meeting the macroeconomic targets.
Maintaining an appropriate macroeconomic framework, and in particular maintaining external
competitiveness, will be essential for achieving the growth objectives. The macroeconomic program is on



- 6 -
track and the IMF Board approved release of the second tranche of the second-year ESAF arrangement m
December 1994. Continued implementation of appropriate macroeconomic policies will be a condition for
release of the second tranche of the proposed operation. In this respect, the review of the macroeconomic
framework for second tranche release will examine the consistency of overall macroeconomic perfornance
with the PFP objectives, particularly fiscal and monetary policies. Increased public savings would be the
dominant element of increased domestic savings in 1995-97. In this regard, the Government intends to
maintain total revenue at around 13 percent of GDP in 1995-97, and to reduce current expenditure from 13
percent of GDP in 1994 to 11 percent in 1997. BCEAO monetary policy will aim at reducing money
supply growth in order to contain domestic price increases by maintaining a tight credit policy vis-a-vis the
Government while expanding credit to the private sector. These policies aim at reducing annual inflation,
as measured by the GDP deflator, from 36 percent in 1994 to 15 percent in 1995 and 2 percent in 1996-97.
The niacroecononuc projections and requisite policies will continue to be revised annually in the context of
updating the PFP, in order to take into account both the progress achieved in reducing imbalances and the
availability of financing.
B. Private Sector Incentives
24.   Private sector activity in Benin accounts for by far the largest share of GDP and past growth.
Irrespective of progress in improving public resource managernent, the key determinant of future growth
resides in policies fostering further private sector growth. The macro policies supported by the proposed
credit are designed to maintain the improved competitiveness, brought about by the devaluation, by rapidly
bringing inflation down to the low levels of the past following the post-devaluation shift in the price level.
The proposed structural measures aim to increase the responsiveness of the private sector, enhance entry,
and promote efficient investment. Such policies include tax and trade reform, as well as simplification and
reduction of govermment regulation.
Tax and Trade Reform
25.   Background. Despite a 25 percent increase in government revenues as a share of GDP since
1989, Benin still has one of the lowest revenue/GDP ratios of the CFA countries (13 percent in 1993). At
the same time, many economic operators complain of an excessive tax burden and arbitrary tax
administration. This reflects a narrowly based tax system, distortions created by the tax legislation, the
expansion of informal sector activities and weak tax administration. When Benin initiated its adjustment
program in 1989, it had an extensive system of non-tariff barriers, including import monopolies, and
relatively high import tariffs. Import taxation was moreover characterized by a cumbersome administrative
valuation system and a great disparity of tariff rates.
26.   Past Adjustment Efforts. Notable progress has been achieved in reducing distortions generated by
the tax system, while improving Government revenue mobilization. A single-rate value added tax (VAT) of
18 percent was introduced in 1991. Exemptions from indirect taxation for foreign-financed projects were
also replaced by specific tax credits for the goods and services used in public investment projects. Revenue
collection also improved following the reorganization of the Tax Directorate, reforms in the customs
administration and the strengthening of tax inspections and controls. Regarding trade taxation, the
Government simplified the structure of import taxation in 1991 and reduced the maximum tariff rate to 63
percent. At the same time it reduced the number of products for which customs valuation was based on
administrative reference values (valeurs mercuriales).  Export taxes, with the exception of those on
precious metals and diamonds, and import licensing requirements were abolished in 1993.



-7 -
27.   1994-1996 Reform Program. Over the period 1994-96 the Government intends to continue to
simplify the tax system and broaden the tax base, and to remove fiscal disincentives to new and expanded
economic activities with the goal of promoting private sector development. The tax reform program is
closely coordinated with the IMF.
28.   In September 1994 Parliament approved three major reforms which, as envisaged under the
program, became effective on January 1, 1995. The first is introduction of a Single Professional Tax
(Taxe Profesionnelle Unique, TPU). For small enterprises (sales below CFAF 40 million), whose tax
payment compliance is difficult to monitor, the TPU would be levied at 26 percent of the rental value of
business premises and would replace the profits tax (BIC), business license taxes (patente et licence), the
VAT, and the apprenticeship tax. For larger businesses it would be levied at 13 percent and would replace
only business license taxes. By its simplicity, the new tax would minimize administrative costs, reduce
compliance costs for businesses, and expand the tax base to small business whose limited accounting
makes application of traditional taxes problematic. The second is elimination of the Minimum
Presumptive Tax (Benefice Minimum Forfaitaire, BMF) which, while ostensibly a minimum "profits" tax,
constituted a turnover tax levied on all firms irrespective of profit or loss. Finally, a Single Property Tax
(Taxe Fonciere Unique, TFM9, incorporating a simplified identification and collection system, has been
introduced to replace the four previous property taxes (Contribution fonciere des proprietes bdtes,
Contribution fonciere des proprietes non baties, Taxe immobilere sur les loyers, et Imp6t general sur le
revenufoncier).
29.   The next step in the reform of direct taxation will be a simplification of personal income taxation.
The authorities have agreed to revise the tax on wages and salaries (Imp6t Progressif sur les traitements
et les salaires, IPTS) by reducing the number of rates to four and the top marginal rate to 35 percent by
end-June 1995, and to prepare a proposal for revision of the general income tax fImpot General sur le
Revenu, IGR) with a view to simplifying the rate structure and reducing the top marginal rate. These
measures are expected to facilitate both tax compliance and administration.
30.   Regarding indirect taxation, the Government extended coverage of the VATto large retail trade and
the petroleum sector in 1994, and to sugar in April 1995. In addition, it has agreed to progressively
increase the special ad-valorem tax on cement during the period 1995-1997 before replacing it with the
VAT. Ongoing computerization of tax records would also improve VAT administration, both vith regard
to collection and to net reimbursements.
31.   With respect to import taxation, Parliament approved a new import tariff schedule in September
1994, which reduces the maximum rate from 63 percent to 20 percent, and the number of rates from
sixteen to five (0-5-10-15-20 percent). Benin has thus adopted one of the most open trade regimes in
Africa. While the overall reform is consistent with the general reconmmendations made in the context of the
proposed West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA) trade reform, Benin has gone further by
adopting a lower maximum tariff than proposed by UEMOA. In addition, the Government has eliminated
the use of remaining reference values for customs valuation. Finally, it has also agreed to elininate by
January 1996 import tariff and VAT exemptions accorded under "special regimes" outside the investment
code, and to increase to 5 percent the import tariff applied to all products now subject to a zero rate, with
the exception of rice, cotton textiles, school books and medicines. Coordination between the customs
administration and the unit in charge of pre-shipment inspection of imports should improve as a result of
tighter control on declared values, stricter rules on exemptions and better nanagement of the common
database linked to port management operations.



32.   The overall taxation of cotton is also being revised in order to assure appropriate producer
incentives. Under reforms implemented in 1991, cotton producer prices are revised annually and the after-
tax profits of the cotton company (SONAPRA) are divided among producers, a stabilization fund,
SONAPRA and the Treasury. The share allocated to producers varies from 30 to 50 percent depending on
the level of the stabilization fund. These distribution rules were not applied to the windfall profits
generated by the devaluation for the 1993/94 season. Instead, 40 percent of SONAPRA's after-tax profits
were transferred to the Treasury under the provisions of a 1992 law on distribution of public enterprise
profits. Despite an increase in the producer price from 80 CFAF/kg prior to the devaluation to 140
CFAF/kg for the 1994/95 season, SONAPRA generated very large 1994/95 after-tax profits as a result of
the devaluation and favorable world prices.
33.   In response to rapidly increasing private sector participation in input supply and ginning, the
Governnent has agreed to transform SONAPRA into a mixed capital company by opening its capital to
cotton producers by June 1995. Both the Government and producers will benefit from dividends
distributed by SONAPRA to its shareholders instead of the accumulation and distribution of surpluses
according to administrative rules. In addition, the Government has agreed to clarify the relationship
between private gins and SONAPRA with respect to cotton purchase, and to re-examine the role of the
stabilization fund. These measures should contribute to ensuring that producer prices reflect world market
prices and that private operators bear the risk related to cotton ginning and marketing. Implementation of
such revisions would constitute a second tranche release condition for the proposed operation.
RegWatory Framework
34.   Background. Numerous administrative obstacles have in the past inhibited private sector activity
in Benin. In particular, prices of most products were controlled, formalities to establish enterprises have
been overly complex and labor market regulations have severely restricted hiring and firing decisions by
enterprises. The overall regulatory framework has militated against efficient growth and employment
creation.
35.   Past Adjustment Efforts. By 1993, price controls were eliminated on most goods and services
except bread, petroleum products, rice, tomato paste, milk, school supplies and cement. Marlkng a sharp
break with the Marxist-Leninist ideology of the past, a new Commercial Law, Labor Law, and Investment
Code were adopted in 1989-90. While the revised legal framework established the basis for market-
oriented private economic activities, and thus represented a major step forward, commnercial regulation
remains burdensome, hiring and firing decisions are constrained, and eligibility for investrnent incentives is
highly discretionary.
36.   1994-1996 Reform Program. The proposed operation aims at removing current distortions in the
regulatory framework and improving the overall business environment, in line with the regional
harmonization of the business framework in the CFA zone. The reforms have been identified in close
cooperation with private sector representatives from the local and international business and financial
community.
37.   With respect to price liberalization, the Govermnent has eliminated the temporary price and
margin controls (homologahon) introduced as a precautionary measure at the time of the devaluation and
freed a number of previously controlled prices. Ex ante margin controls are now limited to water,
electricity, school books, pharmaceuticals and cemnent; and fixed prices are set only for petroleum products
and bread. The Government will review these procedures by the end of 1995 with a view to further
reducing price controls.



-9 -
38.   After having reviewed the implementation of the Investment Code and the Labor and Commercial
Laws, the Government has agreed that in the current economic context further improvements are necessary,
inter alia, to clarify and simplify investment incentives, to further liberalize the labor market and to reduce
the formalities required to establish new firms. In order to effectively guarantee enforcement of the new
legislation regulating labor, investment and business activities, the Government intends to strengthen and
modernize the judiciary system.
39.   The current Investment Code establishes the conditions required to obtain benefits under different
investment regimes and grants the Investment Control Commission at the Ministry of Industry extensive
discretionary power. The tax reforms introduced in recent years and those agreed upon under the proposed
operation in large measure remove the need for special incentives to potential investors. The Investment
Code is being revised in order to establish a single incentive system assuring automatic access to such
benefits by all investors. The Government has agreed to adopt a revised Investment Code by end-June
1995. Proposed labor market reforms aim at increasing business flexibility by simplifying labor
regulations and procedures. The Government intends to adopt a new Labor Code by end-May 1995 which
will increase flexibility regarding hiring decisions, eliminate the need for prior authorization from the Labor
Directorate for employee dismissal, and consolidate labor regulations currently dispersed in various texts.
The provisions of the current commercial legal framework create a number of disincentives to the
establishment and operation of commercial firms. The authorities are committed to simplifying and
modernizing the business law framework. In this regard, Benin's Parliament ratified the treaty on the
regional harmonization of business law in December 1994, a national commission is reviewing the draft
general Commercial Law, and the authorities expect the first regional texts to be implemented in 1995.
Public Enterprises
40.   Background. During the 1970s the Government created a large number of public enterprises
which dominated commercial and industrial activities. The number of such enterprises increased from 12
in 1972 to 120 in 1980. By 1981 their cumulative losses reached CFAF 40 billion and their government-
guaranteed foreign borrowing reached CFAF 136 billion. Government transfers to public enterprises in
1981 alone were CFAF 17 billion.
41.   Past Adjustment Efforts. The Government began to introduce partial reforms beginning in 1982,
when 54 regional public enterprises were dissolved. In 1988 a privatization and restructuring program was
introduced for the remaining 65 enterprises. As of March 1994, 21 of these enterprises had been
liquidated, 6 privatized and 6 merged with other entities. Thirty-two enterprises thus remain in the state
portfolio, of which 12 are autonomous administrative agencies, 4 are public utilities, and 16 are
commercial enterprises. The direct fiscal and financial sector burden of public enterprises has been largely
eliminated. Budgetary transfers to public enterprises have stopped, the share of public enterprises in non-
government credit has declined from 56 percent in 1988 to 18 percent in 1992, and the 27 enterprises
remaining in the state portfolio registered a net operating surplus of about CFAF 4 billion in 1993.
Regarding the regulatory framework, laws and decrees have been adopted providing rules for public
enterprise rehabilitation, more autonomy for enterprises, and a legal framework for privatization.
42.    1994-1996 Reform Program. The Government is committed to divesting 13 of the remaining 16
commnercial/industrial public enterprises in 1995-96. Privatization of 7 enterprises - the Sem6 oil
production platform, Parakou cashew nut plant, Natitingou tomato paste plant, Za-Allahe fruit juice plant,
Bohicon maize processing plant, H6tel de La Plage and H6tel Croix du Sud - is underway and will be
completed before the end of 1995. In addition, the Government has agreed to liberalize the insurance sub-



- 10-
sector, liquidate SONAR (national insurance company), and transfer its good portfolio to a new company
in which the state would have no more than a minority share by end-1995. In the textile sector, studies are
being launched for two enterprises (COTEB, SITEX) to define a divestiture strategy to be implemented in
1995. Subject to agreement with the Nigerian Govermment, the Government intends to proceed with
privatization of the Onigbolo cement company (SCO) and the Save sugar company (SSS) in 1995; the
situation in Nigeria may, however, delay action on these two companies. Finally, the national palm oil
company's (SONICOG) plantations have been transferred to producer cooperatives, consultants have been
recruited for an internal restructuring of the industrial units, and SONICOG's capital is to be opened to
private investors by March 1996.
43.   With respect to public utilities remaining in the state portfolio, water and electricity tariffs of the
utility parastatal (SBEE) were increased by 15 percent in early 1994 after the CFAF devaluation. The
Government has taken measures to reduce costs in 1995 and will eliminate the budget subsidy for
electricity in 1996.
44.   A legal framework for liberalizing the petroleum sector (imports, distribution and storage) was
approved in 1994. Nonetheless, the national petroleum company (SONACOP) has retained a de facto
monopoly on importation and distribution of petroleum products. In order to effectively eliminate the
monopoly of SONACOP in importation, distribution and storage of petroleum products, the Government
has revised the legal framework to remove unnecessary restrictions on private petroleum companies,
including reduction of minimum capital requirements and obligatory stock and transit quantities. The
Government has also agreed to transfer the management of the petroleum storage facilities to private
companies by end-February 1996, to offer for sale 75 percent of service stations to the private sector by
end-October 1995, and to complete sales for 50 percent of the stations by end-February 1996. Effective
implementation of these actions would constitute a condition for second tranche release of the proposed
operation.
45.   In addition to operating a large number of public enterprises, the state formerly attempted to
partially direct private investment by means of a National Investment Fund (Fonds National
d 'Investissement, FNM), with mandatory contributions from all firms and partial reimbursement for eligible
investments. Contributions to the fund were suspended in 1991 but large outstanding balances remain. In
December 1994, the Government paid all outstanding reimbursement claims and initiated liquidation of the
FNI. New reimbursement claims will be processed and all eligible claims paid through August 31, 1996, at
which time the FN will cease operation. Under the law establishing the FNI, unreimbursed balances (i.e.,
contributions less eligible reimbursements) would be reimbursed without interest 30 years after the
contribution was made. Thus the Government's legal obligation to refund contributions will begin in 2005.
In order to increase the liquidity of firms but not alter the Government's legal obligations, the Govermment
has agreed to examine the feasibility of issuing tradable securities for the unreimbursed balances at the
completion of FNI liquidation in August 1996.
C. Improved Public Services
46.   Despite consolidated govermnent expenditure of 20 percent of GDP, the Government has not been
able to provide the essential public services and basic infatructure required for long-term economic
growth and a sustained improvement in living standards. Improvements in the efficiency with which public
resources are spent will be an important determinant of the responsiveness of economic agents to the
improved incentives structure. The CFAF devaluation provides the Government with the opportunity to
accelerate ongoing efforts to restructure current expenditure towards the provision of essential services,
strengthen public investment programming, and restructure key ministries.



Current Expenditures
47.   Background. The composition of current expenditures has not provided adequate allocations for
non-wage operating and maintenance expenditure. This is primarily the result of a civil service wage bill
that absorbed more than 80 percent of total Government revenue in 1989. Allocations for primary
education, basic health care and infrastructure maintenance have been inadequate and have jeopardized the
long-term supply response necessary for a sustained increase in per capita income.
48.   Past Adjustment Efforts. Relative to 1991, 1993 non-personnel current expenditures increased by
21 percent, for health and education by 59 percent, and for road maintenance by 4 percent. The share of
the wage bill in total current expenditure declined from 65 percent in 1991 to 61 percent in 1993. Over this
same period the size of the civil service was reduced from 36,900 positions at end-1991 to 33,385 positions
at end-1993.
49.   1994-96 Reform Program. The reform program aims at improving the structure of current
expenditures, in particular the provision of adequate allocations for essential services, particularly in
primary health and education, and basic infrastructure maintenance. The Government also intends to
eliminate the stock of domestic arrears by 1996. The key element for restructuring current expenditures is
an increase in non-wage operating and maintenance expenditures relative to personmel expenditures.
Relative to 1993, 1994 allocations for non-wage operating and maintenance expenditure were increased by
103 percent in nominal terms, for road maintenance by 25 percent, for education by 63 percent, for health
by 51 percent and for agriculture by 36 percent.
50.   The Government intends to reduce the relative size of the wage bill in total current expenditures
from 48 percent in 1993 to 38 percent in 1995. The increase in the wage bill was limited to 21 percent in
1994, corresponding to a base salary increase of 10 percent, the restoration of the 10 percent housing
allowance suspended in 1989, and raises related to promotions in 1986 and 1988. Indemnities and other
variable components of the wage bill remained unchanged. There will be no net additions to the civil service
in 1995. The Government intends to limit the increase in the wage bill to an additional 10 percent in 1995
which corresponds to the full-year impact of the measures adopted in 1994.
51.   The share of non-wage current expenditures in total current expenditures will increase from 20
percent in 1993 to 30 percent in 1995. Taking into account 1994 budget execution results, agreement has
been reached on increasing 1995 budget allocations to CFAF 6.7 billion (7.5 percent of the current budget)
for maintenance and supplies, CFAF 7.3 billion (8.2 percent of the current budget as compared with 5
percent in 1993) for non-wage education expenditure, CFAF 5.2 billion (5.8 percent of the current budget
as compared with 3 percent in 1993) for non-wage health expenditure, and CFAF 2 billion for road
maintenance (Road Fund). Effective realization of these budget share allocations as reflected in budget
execution figures for 1995, and agreement on allocations for the 1996 budget would constitute conditions
for release of the second tranche of the proposed credit. In order to assure close and timely monitoring of
actual expenditures during the year, the authorities have agreed to furnish a quarterly'budget execution
summary to IDA within 45 days of the end of each quarter beginning with the 1995 budget.
Public Investment
52.   Background. Traditionally, public investment projects have been subject to little Government
screening as to their economic rate of return, financial viability and consistency with sector development



- 12 -
strategies. The public investment program has, moreover, been plagued by low rates of execution, lack of
counterpart funds, and procurement problems.
53.   Past Adjustment Efforts.   The government took initial steps to improve public investrnent
programming in 1989 with the introduction of a three-year rolling public investment program (PIP).
Coverage, project selection and implementation monitoring of the PIP have improved in subsequent years
on the basis of annual revisions undertaken in consultation with IDA. Progress has also been realized in
the allocation of budgetary counterpart funds, which nearly tripled from CFAF 0.9 billion in 1990 to CFAF
2.5 billion in 1993, although this still represents only about 10 percent of the total PIP. Execution of the
PIP has also improved, although much remains to be done in this regard. Estimates for 1993 imply an
execution rate of 69 percent, compared to 63 percent in 1992. Additional improvements in investnent
programming, monitoring and execution are being supported through the IDA-financed Economic
Management Project.
54.   1994-96 Reform Program. The Government's public investment objectives are to increase the rate
of growth and improve the welfare of the population, by allocating adequate resources to key sub-sectors
such as infrastructure, health and education, and encouraging labor-intensive methods. Better project
analysis and programming would increase both the level and quality of public investments, and contribute
to providing the physical and administrative infrastructure that will facilitate an expansion of private
investments.
55.   The Govermment has adopted a revised 1995-97 PIP, on the basis of discussions with the main
donors and a final review conducted by IDA. The PIP addressees key constraints to the acceleration of
growth, and gives priority to investments in infrastructure, energy and agriculture which are supportive of
private sector development, as well as projects required to expand primary education and health services
and improve administrative capacity. Public investment expenditure is programmed to increase to about
CFAF 107 billion in 1995 and 1996 compared to CFAF 83 billion executed in 1994. The domestic
budgetary contribution to the investment program increased to CFAF 4.3 billion in 1994 and is
programmed at CFAF 7.9 billion in 1995. Disbursements of counterpart funds will be monitored on a
quarterly basis. Agreement on the 1996-98 PIP would be a condition for second tranche release.
56.   In order to improve the PIP execution rate (69 percent in 1993), the Government has also
established a special unit in the Ministry of Finance to ensure monitoring and timely disbursement of
counterpart funds and to facilitate closer coordination with donors. The Government intends to reinforce
its effort to improve the selection of projects in the PIP. Beginning with the 1996 PIP, each project with a
total cost exceeding CFAF 2.0 billion would require a feasibility study demonstrating its economic and
financial viability, taking into account counterpart funding, recurrent cost and debt-service implications.
57.   A revised public Procurement Code satisfactory to IDA was approved by the Governnent in
January 1994. Since parliamentary ratification of the new code was delayed, a waiver was requested and
granted for the release of the third tranche of SAC II. The code will be one of the first items on the agenda
of the new Parliament which is to convene in May 1995. Adoption of the new code would be an
effectiveness condition of the proposed credit.
Public Administration Reform
58.   Background. Despite the size of the civil service and the predominance of the wage bill in current
expenditures, Benin has a public administration that cannot efficiently deliver basic public services to the



- 13 -
bulk of the population. In addition to the immediate restructuring of current expenditures described above,
institutional reform of the public administration is required.
59.   Past Adjustment Efforts.  In order to initiate the long-term restructuring of the public
administration, the Government launched a program of organizational audits and subsequent restructuring
plans for key ministries. A new organizational structure for the Ministry of Finance was approved and
implemented in 1993. The Ministry of Rural Development and the regional development organizations
(CARDER) were also restructured in 1993, resulting in a substantial reduction in the number of
government personnel. Organizational audits of the Ministries of Plan, Health and Education were also
launched in 1993.
60.   1994-96 Reform Program. On the basis of the above-mentioned organizational audits, new
organizational structures were adopted for the Ministries of Health and Education in May 1994. In the
Ministry of Health, a Human and Financial Resources Department, a Planning, Programming and
Evaluation Department, and a Family Health Department have been created. The ongoing reorganization
of the Ministry of Education is being completed with the establishment of a Financial Affairs Department
and the redeployment of teachers employed in administrative departments. The Government is in the
process of evaluating a new organizational structure for the Ministry of Plan and Economic Restructuring,
on the basis of its audit, and has completed organizational audits of the Ministries of Labor, Employment
and Social Affirs; Industry, Small and Medium-Size Enterprises; Transport and Public Works; Commerce
and Tourism; and Energy, Water and Mines. A dated action program for implementation of the new
organizational structures involving a redefinition of functions and redeployment of personnel, on the basis
of these audits, would be prepared in 1995.
Ill. THE PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A. SAC III Program and Link to CAS
61.   The IDA country assistance strategy (CAS) for FY95-97 was discussed by the Executive Directors
on June 7, 1994. Its main objectives are to encourage and support the private sector supply response, and
to ensure adequate provision of basic social services. The proposed operation is a key element of the
lending program proposed in the CAS. It would provide quick-disbursing support to help the Government
consolidate structural reforms and implement accompanying measures aimed at encouraging the supply
response of the private sector to an increase in competitiveness following the devaluation of the CFA franc.
Assuming satisfactory performance, total lending for FY95-97 under the base case scenario is expected to
be in the range of US$125-155 million. Timely implementation of the measures required for release of the
second tranche of the proposed operation, coupled with significant improvements in procurement and in
disbursement of counterpart funding, would trigger a high case scenario.
B. Poverty Impact
62.   The proposed operation would address poverty issues in two ways. First, it would support policies
designed to accelerate broad-based income growth. Second, it would increase the availability and quality
of basic social services. With regard to income growth, one of the most important impacts of the
devaluation and accompanying measures should be a sustained increase in the demand for labor, which is
the most important asset of the poor. Cotton will continue to be the main source of agriculture growth in
the immediate future, but the devaluation has also opened new opportunities for expansion in the food crops
sector, both for import substitution and export. Parallel actions to stimulate equitable agricultural growth
will aim at improving information disseminated to the farmers, access to inputs, marketing opportunities



- 14-
and rural infrastructure. Poor segments of the population who are underemployed in the informal sector
would benefit from expanding formal activities in the industry and trade sectors. Tax burden reduction and
tax neutrality across sectors, simplification of the import tariff regime and rationalization of the framework
of incentives would promote efficient and sustainable income, and employment opportunities. Parallel
actions in these areas will focus on training programs, assistance to micro-enterprises and improved access
by small firms to public contracts. With regard to basic social services, a greater share of both current
and investment expenditures will be allocated to the social sectors with the goal of improving the
availability and quality of primary education and health services, which are essential to improve the living
standards of the poor.
C. Credit Amount and Proposed Conditionality
63.   An amount equivalent to US$40 million is proposed for this credit, which would represent about
16 percent of Benin's gross financing gap for 1995-97. The proposed credit is expected-to generate
cofinancing and parallel financing from other donors, including Japan, Germany and Denmark, that have
expressed interest in having their quick disbursing assistance to Benin linked to an IDA-supported
adjustment program.
64.   The policy measures to be undertaken under this operation are outlined in Part II and the attached
matix, and are detailed in the Government's Letter of Development Policy. Release of the second tranche
would depend upon satisfactory review of overall performance under the adjustment program, including
maintenance of an appropriate macroecononic framework and agreement on any additional actions
required to achieve the program's objectives, and upon realization of the specific conditions listed below.
The attached Letter of Development Policy and matrix would form the basis for the performance review.
65.   Adoption by Parliament of the new procurement code (para. 57) is proposed as a condition of
effectiveness.
66.   In addition to satisfactory implementation of the overall program specified in the Letter of
Development Policy and attached matrix, the following measures are proposed as specific conditions for
second tranche release:
*  Maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic framework as specified in the PFP (para. 23).
* In order to ensure an adequate link between cotton producer prices and world market prices:
(a) transformation of SONAPRA into a mixed capital company and offer of one third of its
shares to cotton producers; (b) adoption of market-based pricing procedures for SONAPRA's
seedcotton sales to private gins; (c) completion of a review of the price stabilization mechanism
in consultation with IDA and, on the basis of this review, revision of the stabilization fund
procedures to take account of private sector participation in cotton ginning and export; and (d)
completion of a review of the feasibility of opening of seedcotton marketing to private
operators (para. 33);



- 15 -
* For the purpose of liberalizing the petroleum sector, the borrower has taken the following
measures: (a) transfer of ownership of storage facilities from SONACOP to the State and
conclusion of either a long-term lease or a management transfer arrangement with the oil
import and distribution companies, (b) offered for sale 75 percent of the service stations held
by SONACOP to private sector operators, and (c) completed the sale of 50 percent of the
stations (para 44);
*  Budget execution in line with agreed expenditure targets for 1995, and agreement on the 1996
budget, as described in the Letter of Development Policy, including: (a) salary expenditure of
no more than 38 percent of total current expenditure; (b) budget allocations of at least 7.5
percent of the current budget for maintenance and supplies, at least 8.2 percent for non-wage
education expenditure, and at least 5.8 percent for non-wage health expenditure; and (c) an
increase of the budget allocation for the Road Fund to at least CFAF 2.5 billion (para. 51);
* Agreement on 1996-98 PIP satisfactory to IDA (para. 55).
D. Procurement, Disbursement, Financial Management, Auditing and Preshipment Inspection
67.   The proposed credit would be disbursed in two equal tranches of $20 million. The first tranche
would be released at effectiveness and the second would be released following a review indicating
satisfactory progress in implementing the program as a whole, including maintenance of an adequate macro
framework, and upon fulfillment of the specific second tranche release conditions listed above.
68.   Credit proceeds would be used to finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of general
imports of goods, excluding goods financed by bilateral agencies, luxury goods, military equipment and
other goods specifically prohibited in a negative list defined under the Standard International Trade
Classification (SITC) or equivalent classification. Retroactive financing for up to 20 percent of the loan
amount is recommended for eligible expenditures incurred not more than four months prior to the date of
credit signature. A simplified international competitive bidding (ICB) procedure would be required for
purchases exceeding US$2 million. Procurement valued below the ICB threshold would follow the
standard procedures in the case of public sector purchases and established normal commercial practice
acceptable to IDA in the case of private sector purchases, by obtaining price quotation from at least two
suppliers where practical. Standard simplified ICB documents for petroleum products and commodities
will be finalized within the next months. Contracts for a value above US$2 million will be subject to IDA
prior review.
69.   Disbursement of the credit would be made against import documentation or custom declaration
certificates received from the BCEAO which will be responsible for the collection of the relevant
documentation and submission of loan withdrawal applications. Custom declaration certificates would be
supported by bills of lading, insurance cover certificates, and pre-shipment certificates, when available.
IDA would follow the simplified documentation procedures for adjustment operations. For those contracts
valued at more than US$5,000 and less than US$2 million equivalent, IDA would reimburse the BCEAO
on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOE) prepared from the import documentation, or customs
declaration certificates, showing that eligible goods at least equal in value to the amount requested from
IDA had been imported into the country during the period under consideration. Import documentation
would be retained by the BCEAO for review by IDA supervision missions and by external auditors. In
addition to standard auditing covenants, an audit report would be submitted to IDA no later than 90 days
after the full disbursement of the credit.



- 16 -
70.   The National Adjustment Commission, chaired by the Minister of Finance, which includes the
Minister of Plan and Economic Restructuring, the Minister of Industry and SME, the Minister of Energy,
Mines and Water, the Minister of Commerce and Tourism, the Minister of Rural Development and the
Minister of Labor, Employment and Social Affairs, has overall responsibility for program management and
monitoring. Day-to-day coordination of the Commission's work is assured by a technical secretariat.
71.   Preshipment inspection of imports was initiated in Benin in 1991 and has contributed to reducing
fraud and increasing revenue collection at customs. An evaluation of preshipment inspection services
completed in 1993 concluded that, despite improved customs administration, maintenance of a separate
service to assure preshipment control of imports was still warranted. Cooperation between customs and the
preshipment inspection service still needs to be improved. A two-year contract was signed in September
1994 with Veritas for preshipment inspection services.
E. Benefits and Risks
72. The proposed operation would support restoration of internal and external financial equilibria
through its impact on the budget and external trade. It would support implementation of the accompanying
measures - including tax, trade and regulatory reform - required to realize the opportunities for improved
competitiveness and accelerated growth offered by the devaluation of the CFA franc. The proposed
restructuring of public expenditures and associated resource management reforms would increase the
availability of essental health, education and infrastructure services, which are expected to be particularly
beneficial for the poorest segments of the population.
73. There are three najor risks related to the proposed operation. First, lack of consensus between the
executive and the legislative powers, particularly in light of presidential elections in 1996, poses a risk for
timely implementation of the adjustment program. Disagreement between the Government and Parliaent
delayed approval of the 1994 budget, for example. The Government is attempting to reduce this risk by
increasing consultations with Parliament and has demonstrated the effectiveness of this approach with
regard to the 1995 Budget Law, which was approved by Parliament in December 1994. Finally, the
Government has shown its comnitmnent to the reform program and ability to generate a consensus for
action by the large number of actions taken prior to Board presentation.
74. A second risk is that the relatively weak administrative capacity of the Government could lead to
delays in the implementation of key measures. This risk would be reduced through the design of the
program which focuses on a few key reforms and involves a simplification of administrative requirements
based on lessons learned implementing SAC II. In addition, the IDA-financed Economic Management
Project became effective in January 1995 and will provide the required support to the Ministries of Finance
and Plan to implement the proposed reform program.
75.  A third risk is uncertainty concerning developments in Nigeria. Given the size of the Nigerian
market and Benin's locational advantages, a prosperous and rapidly growing Nigeria is in Benin's inrest.
Benin's economy is, however, highly vulnerable to policy changes in Nigeria. Although Benin is still
benefiting from Nigerian import restrictions, which have led to growth in unofficial re-export activities in
the past, a correction of policies in Nigeria could lead to a temporary but rapid drop in re-export activities,
which would reduce custom revenues and require additional fiscal adjustment in Benin.



- 17 -
IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
76. Performance Under Previous Adjustment Operations. Overall progress under the structural
adjustment program initiated in 1989 with SAC I and followed by SAC n in 1991 is satisfactory despite
the delayed implementation of some reforms. SAC II implementation results were reported to the Board in
July 1994, and the release of its third tranche was approved in August 1994. Progress achieved in key
areas has been summarized in Part II of this memorandum.
77.  Waivers. Benin requested and was granted two waivers on the adoption of a new Procurement Code
and changes in the legislation regulating investment, labor and business activities for the third tranche of
SAC II. Although the Government has continued to take action on the required measures subsequent to
granting of waivers, the practice of seekdng waivers cannot continue. The specific conditions for release of
the second tranche are therefore limnited to those for which we would propose blocking disbursement even if
all other actions were taken. Tranche release would, of course, also be conditional on a satisfactory
implernentation of the overall program specified in the Letter of Development Policy and maintance of
the agreed macroeconomic framework.
78. IFC and MIGA. IDA and IFC will continue to work together to promote private sector
development. IFC's activities have been geared to promotmg investments in the areas of small and medium
size enterprises. This strategy has led to the approval of three investments since 1991: FRUITEX
(production and export of pineapples), SOBEP (fisheries) and Bank of Africa-Benin. IFC's participation is
expected to increase in the future, mainly as a catalyst to promote foreign investment. Thus, IFC is
actively pursuing proposals to diversify the financial sector. This strategy has led to the preparation of
projects for a leasing company and a life insurance company. IFC is also engaged in discussions with the
Ministry of Commerce and Tourism for possible involvement in the privatization of state-owned hotels.
FIAS has conducted a review of the investment climate in Benin. Benin signed the MIGA convention in
April 1986, ratified the agreement in July 1994, and became a MIGA member in September 1994. Foreign
investments in Benin are now eligible to receive MIGA guarantees and two applications have already been
registered.
V. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS
79.  Bank staff have worked closely with IMF staff in policy discussions with the Government during
joint missions, in particular for the preparation of the PFP. The proposed SAC III reform program has
been discussed with the IMF. In particular, the IMF has played a key role in formulating the proposed tax
reform program.
80. A three-year ESAF, whose third annual arrangerent is expected to be approved by the IMF Board
in May 1995, provides IMF support of US$75 million for 1994-96. Bank staff are also coordinating
activities with the European Union (EU), the African Development Bank, the West Africa Development
Bank (BOAD) and bilateral donors such as France, Denmark, Japan, Germany, the Netherlands,
Switzerland and the United States. IDA also assisted the UNDP in organizing a Round Table Meeting in
April 1992 and subsequent sector round tables to mobilize financing for Benin's medium term public
investment progranm.



- 18-
VI. RECOMMENDATION
81.  I am satisfied tat the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
Pmident
by Gautam S. Kaji
Washington, D.C.
April 27, 1995
Attachments



Annex A
Benin                                                  Page 1 of 2
Most Sme nrean/incoe group         Me=
Latest single year       recant                              higher
Unit of                                  estintue    Schamn        LOW.      income
Indicaor              :                     sure             1970-75     198045      1988.93      Africa     income       group
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                        local curr.                          ..
Headcount index                          % of pop.                                  ..               ..          19
Lower poveny line                         local cur.               ..          ..          ..
Hcadcount index                          % of pop.                ..          ..          ..
GNP per capi                                 USS                 220         280         430         520         380       1.590
SNORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unskllcd urban wages                      local curr.              ..          ..
Unskilled mural wages
Rural terms of trade
Consumerprice index                       1987=100                 ..          ..
Lower income
Foode
Urban
Rual
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expendirure on basic social ervices  % of GDP               ..          ..          _.
Gsoss enrollment rios
Primzy                                 % school age pop.          50          67          66          67         108         104
Male                                         *                   70          89          78          74         116           .
Female                                                           31          44          39          60         101
Mortality
Infant morality                      per thou live births     136.0        100.0        84.6       93.1        63.1        39.0
Under 5 mortality                                                ..           ..       144.0       1723       101.4        61.5
Imrnunizaoon
Measles                                 % age group              ..         23.0        70.0       49.9        S7.3        77.6
DPT                                                               ..        17.0        67.0        51.9       89.9        82.2
Child malnutridon (under-5)                                        ..          ..          ..          ..       40.3
Life expectancy
Total                                      years                 40          44          48          52          62          67
Female advanragc                                                3.1          3.4         3.4         3.3        2.1         5.9
Toralfesrdliyryrm                      birthsperwoman            7.1          7.1         7.0         6.2        3.6          2.9
Matemnal morality raw                per 100,000 live birts        ..       1680           ..          ..          _
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Expenditures on social security       % of Oal gov't cxp.          ..          ..          _
Social security covenge               % econ. actve pop.           ..          ..          ..
Access  safe watcr wtal                    % of pop.            34.0         49.S        50.3          _        67.0
Urban                                       *                100.0        80.0        79.0          ..        78.7
Rural                                                         20.0        34.0        34.5                    620
Access to health rat                          *                                _         50.0
Population growth rate                 GNP per capita growth rate                     Development diamondb
(annual average,                          (annual averag  percent)
6T                                                                                               Life expectawcy
1970-75     1980-85     1988M93             1970-75    1980-85      1988,93               Access to sufe watr
:  Benin                                                                                         Benin
Low-income                                                                                  Low-income
a See the technical noes. p.387. b. The development dimond based on four key indicaors. shows the averae level of development in the coumny
compared with its income goup. See the inutoducton.



Annex A
Benin                                                     Page 2 of 2
Benin~~~~~~UnS  giiroe rY 
_______________   _               e     fr                hig . 
rink of                                <gxmat    SShma          Low .     Aware
indicator                                 arewure          19707       190        198893       Afnom                  grp
Resources and Expenditures
HUMAN RESOURCES
Population (mreu1993)                   dtousands            3.033       3.988       5.086    558.978   3.091.764   1.096.665
Age dependency raiio                       raio               0.94        0.97        1.00       0.94       0.67       0.69
Urban                                    V. of pop.           20.4        26.9        30.4      29.8        27.6        54.7
Population growth rae                    annual%               2.4         2.9         3.1       2.9         1.9         1.6
Urban                                                         6.9         4.3        4.7        5.0         3.9        2.9
Labor force (15-64)                      thousands           1.592        1.964      2.365    229.480   1.442.452    459,196
Agnculmre                              % of labor force         76          70          ..
Induswy                                                          6           7         ...
Female                                                          48.         48         47         36         33          31
Females per 100 males
Urban                                    number               121                                 -          .. _
Rural                                                         117
NATURAL RESOURCES
Arca                                    thou. sq. km        112.62      112.62      112.62   24.2.63   39.091.96   40.682.67
Dentity                                pop. per sq. km       26.93       35.41      43.77       22.37      77.60      26.52
Agriculmual land                       V. of land area       20.00       20.61       20.99      52.54      52.S2      39.61
Qungc in agriculmura1 1d                 rnnurl %              1.61       0.8S        0.43       0;06       003        -013
Agriculwral land under irrigation           %                 0.18        0.26        0.30       0.83      18.0        12.66
Forests and woodland                    thou. sq. km                      0.06        0.05       5.32       7.15       5.95
Deforestation (net)                      annual %                                     131          -
INCOME
Household income
Shar of op 209 of householts           %ofincomc
Sha  of botom 40%  f housebolds                                 .           . -        .                                -
Sham of botom 205 of housebolds
3XENDITURE
Food                                     % of GDP                .        30.5
Staples                                                                   9 9
Mea, fish. milk, chee eggs                                               11.3          .       . 
C.real imports                       thou. merc tonnes          12          67        134      13,157     34.420     66.281
Food aid in cereals                                              9          21         19       5.079      8.334     5477
Foodproducionpercapita                   1987=100               93         III        11S        101         113        101
Fertilizer consurnpnon                     kglh                1.1         5.0         66        46         59.9       48.0
Shamr of apiculture in OD?               S of GDP             30.5        32.0       35.8        16.3       26.3       15.7
Iotsing                                  * of GDP                          9.8. S.
Avcrage household size              persons per household
Urban                                                           .           .          .
Fixed investment: housing                * of GDP               -.         4.0
Fuel and power                           * of GDP                          2.0
Energy consumnpion per capita          kg of oil equiv.         53         48          20        257        364        1,595
Households with elecuicity
Urban                                * of households            .
Rural
Transport and communicato                % of GDP                         11.6          .          -
Fixed investnent nisport quipat m                                          1.0
Total mad tIngth                            h.knm                7          8           a
INVESTNT IN EHUMAN CAPITAL
Baltic
Population per physician                  pesons            28.957      13.312                      _                 3.277
Populaion per nurse                                          2.613       1.743                     _                      _
Population per hospital bed                                    862        884                   1,269      1.016        604
Oral rehydyraxion therapy (under-5)      % of cs                                       28         37         38           -
Education
Gross enrollment ratio
Secondary                            % of choo-agepop.           9          17         12         is.        41          53
Female                                                          5          10          7          -         34
Pupil-reacher nio: pnmary             pupis per tachr           53         33          35         40         39
Pupil-teacher raio: secondary                                   38         37          3S          _         20
Pupils raching grade 4                  *ofcohns                64         63
Repeat rc: primary                        . of  0al eo          21          27         26                     _
Illiteracy                           S ofpop. (age4 15+)         _         81          77         50         41          19
Female                              V of fem (age 1)                        s 88      84         62         53
New!papr circulation                       Io                               0           2         12          .          74
worid bankt Knternnaonai boonows Lwme  Apru i;



Annex B
Pege I of 2
Benin: Key Economic Indicators
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
(est.) (proj.) (proj.)  (proj.) (proj.)  (proj.)
National Accounts
(Yo of GOP at current market pnces)
Gross Domestic Product              100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture                         36.1   37.0   36.8   35.8   33.4       ..    ..
Industry                            13.2   12.5   12.7   12.9   13.6       ..    ..
Services                            46.5   45.7   45.8   46.4   48.0       ..    ..
Import Duties and Taxes              4.1    4.8    4.8    4.9    5.0
Consumption                          94.5   94.0   95.6   95.1   90.5   90.6   89.2   87.8   86.7   85.1
Gross Investment                     14.2   14.5   13.9   14.9   14.3   15.2   16.6   17.8  - 18.3   19.9
Private Investment                  6.0    6.1    6.7    7.8    4.5    5.4    7.7    8.7   10.0   11.8
Public Investment a/                7.4    7.5    6.7    6.7    9.5    9.8    8.9    9.1    8.3    8.1
Changes in Stocks                   0.8    0.9    0.5    0.4    0.2       ..    ..
Resource Balance                    -8.7   -8.5   -9.5  -10.0   -4.7   -5.9   -5.8   -5.6   -5.0   -5.1
Exports of GNFS b/                 21.8   24.2   23.8   22.5   26.6   24.9   25.3   25.1   25.3   24.7
Imports of GNFS                    30.5   32.7   33.4   32.5   31.4   30.8   31.1   30.7   30.3   29.8
Gross National Savings               12.1   11.8    9.3   11.3   13.1   12.3   13.0   14.1   14.6   15.7
Gross Domestc Savings                 5.5    6.0    4.4    4.9    9.5    9.4   10.8   12.2   13.3   14.9
Memorandum Items:
Gross Domesbc Product              1845.0 1899.1  2156.6 2125.1  1521.1  1926.4 2046.2  2195.0 2354.2 2526.4
(USSm at current prices)
Gross Domestic Product              398.2  397.4  437.5  417.8  290.4  357.0  368.2  383.5  399.3  416.0
Per Capita (USS)
Public Finance
(/ of GOP at current market prices)
Current Revenues                     9.9   11.5   12.2   12.9   12.5   12.6   12.9   12.8   13.0   13.4
Current Expenditure                  14.1   13.3   14.3   12.9   12.8   12.6   11.9   11.2   10.8   10.1
Current Balance                     -4.1   -1.8   -2.1    0.0   -0.3    0.1    1.1    1.6    2.2    3.2
Capital Expenditure                  5.9    5.4    5.8    4.7    6.4    7.6    7.4    8.0    7.3    7.2
Overall Balance                    -10.0   -7.2   -8.0   -4.7   -6.6   -7.5   -6.4   -6.4   -5.1   -3.9
Real Annual Growth Rates
Gross Domestic Product               3.1    4.7    4.1    3.2    3.4    6.3    5.6    5.8    5.8    5.8
GDP per Capita                       0.1    1.5    0.9    0.0    0.4    3.2    2.5   '2.7    2.7    2.7
Monetary Indicators
M2/GDP (%)                           17.6   21.7   25.6   25.7   26.0   26.7      ..
Growth of M2 (%)                     62.0   31.2   25.6    5.9   42.2   25.3      ..
Private Sector Credit Growth/        2.7    3.2    1.9    1.4    1.2    1.2       ..
Total Credit Growth
a/ includes public enterprise investment
b/ GNFS - goods and nonfactor umrse. induding re-exports



Annex B
Pago 2 of 2
Benin: Key Economic Indicators
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
(est.)  (proj.) (proj.)  (proj.)  (proj.)  (proj.)
Balance of Payments (USSm)
Exports (GNFS)                      401.8  459.2  514.1  478.4  404.9  479.6  517.5  551.8  595.0  624.6
Merchandise (FOB)                   287.2  336.7  371.2  341.0  300.9  370.3  396.9  425.4  455.2  479.0
Imports (GNFS)                      562.9  621.0  719.3  691.4  477.0  592.5  636.1  674.9  712.6  752.6
Merchandise (FOB)                   427.9  482.5  560.7  539.1  365.9  451.3  487.0  518.1  547.1  577.6
Resource Balance a/                -161.1  -161.8  -205.3  -213.1  -72.1  -112.9  -118.6  -123.2  -117.7  -128.0
Current Account Balance            -113.7  -108.5  -171.7  -158.7  -47.8  -104.3  -111.4  -115.7  -106.8  -113.8
MLT Private Capital (net)             1.8    3.5   26.4   -7.1    7.6   -9.3    3.7    3.7    3.6    3.6
MLT Public Capital (net) b/         196.9  175.8   87.3  190.0  112.9  179.6  164.8  147.8  124.6  119.7
Other c/                             24.8   42.5  149.3   11.4   42.1   34.0   30.2   32.4   29.8   21.2
Change in Reserves d/               109.8  113.4   91.4   35.7  114.7  100.0   87.3   68.2   51.2   30.8
Memorandum Item
Current Account (% of GDP)            -6.2   -5.7   -8.0   -7.5   -3.1   -5.4   -5.4   -5.3   -4.5   -4.5
Real Annual Growth Rates (1990 nrces)
Merchandise Exports e/                0.0   24.7   16.7   -9.1   57.2    6.9   15.2   16.9    6.5    6.5
Merchandise Imports e/               48.8    3.7   14.6    0.3  -29.7   25.4   11.1    4.6    5.5    5.5
Price Indices (1990 =100)
Export Price Index e,/              100.0   89.6   77.0   71.7   68.2   86.0   80.9   73.9   79.0   83.6
ImportPrce Index el                 100.0  105.2  108.5  104.1  108.4  111.2  108.8  110.2  111.8  113.4
Terms of Trade Index                100.0   85.2   71.0   68.9   62.9   77.3   74.4   67.1   70.7   73.7
Real Effective Exch Rate (1987=100)  95.5   94.3   97.9   97.7   62.7       ..    ..
Real Interest Rates (%)              10.9   10.9   12.1    9.9       ..    ..    ..
GDP Deflator (%)                      1.6    1.9    2.4    2.1   35.7   14.8    1.2    2.4    2.3    2.3
a/ Exdudes official capital and current grants
b/ Includes grants
c/ Includes debt relief, changes in arrears, short-term capital, and errors and omissions
dl Includes IMF
el Excluding re-exports
fl Reflects prices received including through forward sales, hence world price changes appear with a lag



Annex C
Benin: External Financing Requirements
(USS millions)
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997   1995-97
(est.)  (proj.)  (proj.)  (proj.)
Extemal Financins Requirements               381.7   259.7   254.9   267.3   236.1   235.0    738.4
CurrentAccountBalance                  171.7   158.7    47.8   104.3   111.4   115.7    331.4
o/w interest due                      61.6    39.9    40.5    47.5    52.5    55.0        155.0
Amortization                           118.6    49.1    39.8    36.7    37.4    51.1        125.2
IMF Repurchases                          0.0     0.0      0.9      1.8     1.8      4.6       8.2
Change in Arrears                        0.0    -5.7      5.7      0.0     0.0 -    0.0       0.0
Change in Reserves (excl. IMF)          91.4    57.6   160.8   124.4    85.5    63.6    273.5
Total Identified Financina                   381.7   259.7   254.9   267.3   236.1   235.0    738.4
Grants                                 132.3    144.4    83.7   114.7   103.1   116.0    333.8
o/w non-project                       53.4    63.2    21.6    40.2    31.2    26.9         98.3
Loans                                   73.6    94.7    68.6   101.7    99.2    82.9    283.7
Project                               66.1     68.2    43.8    78.7    79.3    73.5    231.4
Adjustment                             7.6    26.5    24.9    23.0    20.0        9.4      52.4
o/w World Bank                        6.5    15.0    15.0    23.0    20.0        0.0      43.0
Private Capital (net)                   26.4    -7.1      7.6    -9.3      3.7      3.7      -2.0
IvMF SAF/ESAF                            0.0    21.9    25.9    26.3       0.0      0.0      26.3
Debt Relief Obtained                   145.1    27.8    42.7    11.9       3.3      3.3      18.5
Net Short-tern Capital 1/                4.3   -22.1    26.4       0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0
Possible Debt Relief                      ..       ..      ..   22.2    26.9    29.1         78.1
Financing CA                                   0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
I/ including errors and omissions



Annex D
Page 1 of 2
BENIN
Status Of Bank Group Operations In BENIN
PFDBR25 - Sumary Statement Of Loans and IDA Credits
CLOA data as of 2/28/95 - MIS data as of 04/04/95)
By Country
Country:   BENIN
Amnt in USS million
(Less cancellations)
Loan or        Fiscal                                                                                    Undis-  Closing
Credit No.       Year  Borrower                         Purpose                      Bank         IDA     bursed   Date
......   -      ------    ........                      ..  . .....                  ..... .      ....     ......    .......
Credits
32 Credits(s) closed                                                                            358.24      3
C17480-BJ       1987   BENIN                            PUBLIC ENTERPRISES                      15.00       10.07  06/30/95
C19600-BJ       1989    BENIN                           TELECOMMUNICATIONS                      16.00        1.24  06/30/95(R)
C20310-BJ       1989    BENIN                           HEALTH SERVICES DEV                     18.60        9.21  09/30/97
C20860-BJ       1990    BENIN                           RURAL CREDIT                             2.50         .09  12/31/95
C22840-BJ       1991    BENIN                           POWER REHAB                             15.00       14.27  12/31/97
C22850-BJ       1991    BENIN                           AGRIC. SERVICES                         12.30        9.27  06/30/95
C22860-BJ       1991    BENIN                           PRE-INVESTMENT                           5.40        4.42  06/30/95
C23380-BJ       1992    BENIN                           URBAN REHAB & MGT                       22.84       21.73  12/31/97
C23440-BJ       1992    BENIN                           MGT OF NAT RESOURCES                    14.10       10.01  12/31/97
C25290-BJ       1993    BENIN                           RURAL CREDIT II                          3.80       3.99  06/30/99
C25520-BJ       1994    BENIN                           ECON. MGMT.                              5.20       5.25  12/31/98
C26010-BJ       1994    BENIN                           FOOD SECURITY                            9.70       9.62  12/31/99
*   C26130-BJ       1994    BENIN                           EDUCATION DEVELOPMEN                     18.10      19.71  02/29/00
*   C26220-BJ       1994    BENIN                           RURAL WATER SUPPLY &                     9.80       10.45  12/31/97
TOTAL number Credits *   14                                                                      168.34      129.33
TOTAL*                                                                         526.58
of which repaid                                                               23.15
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                                       503.43
Amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                          130.16
Notes:
*   Not yet effective
*   Not yet signed
* Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates formally revised Closing Date.
CS) indicates SALfSECAL Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, all others are market vaLue.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department officaL data and are not taken
from the Task Budget file.



Annex D
Page 2 of 2
STATEOMNT OF IFC INVESTMETS
As of Feb rr Z3, 1991
CZn ilttions US OoLlars)
-Origirsw  Oruss Co  iamts.-  Held    Held    Undi3b
Pis1t Years                                                                  IFO    IFC                     by      by       tcl.
Conmlrted               ebLigor                  Type of BusInes              oLow    squity  Purdc  TotaLs ITC      Parcic Partic
1992                    Soctdr Id infrse de Pich food *ud agribusiness          .25     .06            .31      .19
1993                    Soci6ti Fruitex .Irdustrie Food and sarbusinss         .43                     .43     .43
1993/o                  Bank of Africa genlfn (OA Capital inrkets                 *     .29             .29    .29
Total grs crismfnns b/                                  .61    .35        -   1.03
Les canelLstiansg termination&, reaymnt    saLas        .12       -             .12
Total c_mitvts now held c/                             .56    .35              .91    .91
Postdrn cmmftmuts
AEF-UKIOK( BNUN.                                          -     .01            .03-
eUOIPSAIL                                               .74     .17       -    .90
Total puding canaitmetas                                .74    .24             .9S
To5tl comhimonts heLd  rid paiding comluients          1.30    .59             1.39
Total widsbursed cmiments                                                      0.00
a/ irnveseu    i hwch have ben fuLly cancelled, terminated, written-off, soLd, redeesd, or repaid.
bl Gros cni,tmn   onsist of ,approved wnd s1gned projects.
c/ Held comanients corsist of disbursed and urdIsbursed investmes.



Annex E
Page 1 of 4
BENIN SAC m POLICY MATRIX
OBJ1CTIVES                   ACTIONS                                        CALENDAR
L PRIVATE SECTOR INCENTIVES
Tax and Trade Reform
Expand the tax base, eliminate   Introduce a Single Professional Tax.    January 1995
distortions and improve tax
administration               Introduce a Single Property Tax.            January 1995
Eliminate the Minimum Presumptive Tax.      January 1995
Improve the VAT administration and reduce   In Progress
delays in reimbursing net fiscal credits.
Extend coverage of the VAT to the petroleum  February 1994
sector.
Extend coverage of the VAT to large retail sales.  October 1994
Extend coverage of the VAT to sugar.        April 1995
Replace the special tax on cement by the VAT.    1996
Revise wages and salaries tax, reducing the  June 1995
number of rates to 4, and the maxinum rate to
35%.
Prepare a draft revision of the general income  September 1995
tax.
Hlarmonize protection across  Decrease the number of import tariff rates from    September 1994
sectors according to new import  16 (ranging from 0 to 63%) to 5 (0%, 50/0, 10%/,
tariff structure             15% and 20%).
Increase the import tax rates to 5% for all goods  June 1995
actually taxed at 0% except for rice, cotton
textiles, medicines and school books.
Eliminate the special regimes granting      January 1996
exemptions from import tariff duties and the
VAT for raw materials and intermediate goods.
Increase eiriciency of the   Improve coordination between the customs    1995-1996
customs administation        administration and the unit in charge ofpre-
shipment inspection of imports, including
improving the common database connected to
port management operations.



Annex E
Page 2 of 4
Regulatory Framework
Eliminate distortions to prvate   Remove the temporary price and margin controls  May 1995
sector activities           introduced at the time of the devaluation.
Abolish fixed prices for all products except bread  May 1995
and petroleum products, and limit ex ante margin
controls to medicines, school supplies, water,
electricity and cement.
Simplify investment incentives,  Simplify and modernize business law through the  1995
further liberalize the labor  application of the regional texts adopted in the
market and encourage         context of the business law harmonization treaty.
establishment of new firms
Revise the Investment Code to suppress     June 1995
unnecessary fiscal exemptions.
Revise the Labor Code to simplify hiring and  May 1995
firing procedures.
Strengthen and modernize the judiciary system  1995-96
Adoption by the Parliament of the new      June 1995
procurement code.
Public Enterprise Divestiture and Reform
Liberalize the importation and distribution of
Reduce size of the parastatal  petroleum products:
sector                       *  revise Decree 93-35 of Feb. 24, 1993,   May 1995
particularly to reduce the mandatory reserve
level from 20% of annual sales to the
equivalent of one month sale.
*  revise arretes to, among other things,  May 1995
decrease the capital requirements for private
companies from CFAF 100 million to CFAF
25 million, and suppress restrictions limiting
the number of participants in the oil
industry.
*  transfer SONACOP storage facilities to the   February 1996
Government and their management to the
petroleum companies.
*  sell by public tender 75% of the service  Fdeuary 1996
stations.
Convert SONAPRA into a mixed capital       June 1995
company by opening its capital to cotton
producers.
Complete privatization of the cashew-nut and  April 1995
the citrus industrial complexes, the tomato paste
plant, the Bohicon com plant, and the Scm6 oil
platfornm



Annex E
Page 3 of 4
Complete divestiture of the State from the La  December 1995
Plage and Croix du Sud hotels.
Liberalize the insurance sector, liquidate  December 1995
SONAR, and transfer its viable portfolio to a new
company in which the State would be a minority
sharcholder.
Complete the divcstiture of the State from  March 1996
SONICOG.
Implement divestiture strategy for the textile  1995
industry (COTEB and SrIE>).
Implement divestiture strategy for SSS and SCO.  1995
Liquidate National Investment Fund (fNI),  August 1996
reimbursc contributions corresponding to agreed
investments, and evaluate the option of bond
issuance for the outstanding contributions.
Increase efficiency of parastatal  Reduce costs and increasc water and clectricity    1995-96
sector                      tariffs in order to eliminate electricity subsidy.
IL IMPROVED PUBLIC SERVICES
Current Expenditures
Improve the stucture of current  Eliminate the stock of domestic arrears.  1995-96
pditures
Provide adequate allocations for  Reduce the wage bill as a share of total current
non-wage operations and      expenditures:
maintenance expenditures, and   *  limit the wage bill to CFAF 50.4 billion in    December 1994
for cssential public scrvices    1995.
*  limit the wage bil to CFAF 54.6 billion in    December 1995
1996.
*  update the computerized payroll file and  December 1995
create a single personnel file with the Civil
Service Department.
Increase the share of expenditure on supplies and
maintenance:
*  increase maintenance and supplies       December 1994
expenditures to CFAF 6.7 billion in 1995,
7.5% of the national current budget (BNF,
sections 10 to 40 and 51 to 53 of the General
Budget).
*  maintain the share of expenditure on    December 1995
maintenance and supplies at at least 7.5% in
1996.



Annex E
Page 4 of 4
Assure adequate sectoral budget allocations:
*  increase non-wage current expenditures for   December 1994
education to CFAF 7.3 billion in 1995,
representing 8.2% of the national current
budget.
*  maintain non-wage current expenditures for  December 1995
education at at least 8.2% of the national
current budget in 1996.
*  increase non-wage current expenditures for   December 1994
the health sector to CFAF 5.2 billion in
1995, representing 5.8% of the national
current budget.
*  maintain non-wage current expenditures for  December 1995
the health sector at at least 5.8% of the
national current budget in 1996.
*  increase road rnaintenance expenditures  December 1994
(Fonds routier) to CFAF 2.0 billion in 1995.
*  increase road maintenance expenditures  December 1995
(Fonds routier) to CFAF 2.5 billion in 1996.
Furnish a quarterly budget execution summary to  1995-96
IDA within 45 days of the end of each quarter.
Public Investments (PIP)
Improve project analysis and  Adopt revised 1995-97 PIP after consultation  February 1995
programming, and increase    with the Bank.
public investment execution rate
Adopt revised 1996-98 PIP after consultation  December 1995
with the Bank.
Establish a special unit in the Ministry of  April 1995
Finance to ensure adequate monitoring and
timely disbursement of counterpart funds.
Require afeasibility study demonstrating the  February 1995
economic and financial justification of each
project whose total costs exceed CFAF 2.0
billion. beginning with the 1994 PIP.
Public Administration
Increase efficiency of the public  Agree on action plans to implement   December 1995
administration               recommendations of organiational audits of the
Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, Ministry of
Industry, Ministry of Transport and Public
Works, and Ministry of Energy and Mines.



Annex F
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT DATA SHEET
Section I:    Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Time taken to prepare the project:          7 months
Project Prepared by:                        Government with the assistance of IDA staff
Loan Comnnittee:                            January 25, 1995
Appraisal:                                  February 8-22, 1995
Negotiations:                               April 24, 1995
Board Presentation:                         May 1995
Effectiveness Date:                        June 1995
Closing Date:                              December 31, 1996
Section II:    Special Conditions
Board Conditions:
*      Agreement on the 1995 macroeconomic framework
*      Proposal for a revised rate schedule for the personal income tax
*      Removal of temporary margin controls introduced after the devaluation
*      Removal of restrictions on companies involved in the importation and distribution of
petroleum products
*      Agreement on a revised PIP for 1995-97
Credit Effectiveness Conditions:
*      Adoption by Parliarnent of the new Procurement Code
This report is based on the findings of the World Bank mission which visited the Republic of Benin
in February 1995 to assist the Govermnent in the appraisal of the SAC m. Mission members
included: Messrs./Mmes Ahlers (Principal Economist); Moreno-Herrero (Task Manager); Thiam
(Consultant).   Additional contributors include:   Messrs./Mmes Kane (Counsel); Hedda
(Disbursement Analyst); Gilsenan (Research Assistant); and Allen (Staff Assistant). Ms. Ngozi
Okonjo-Iweala and Mr. Olivier Lafourcade are the Division Chief and Departuent Director,
respectively, for the operation.



Annex G
Page 1 of 10
Unofficial Translation
April 25, 1995
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
IN SUPPORT OF THE THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SAC III)
REFORM PROGRAM 1995-1997
I.   MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
1.    Despite the encouraging results obtained in implementation of the economic and structural reforms
undertaken since July 1991 within the SAP II framework, the Benin Government is firmly resolved to
continue its adjustment efforts. It intends to proceed calmly and courageously along those lines, within the
context of the updated Policy Framework Paper for 1995-97, prepared in conjunction with the World Bank
and the IMF and distributed to the World Bank's Executive Directors in April 1995.
2.     The principal quantitative macroeconomic objectives consist in maintaining a sustained annual
growth rate of real GDP averaging 5 to 6 percent between now and 1997 and raising the investrnent ratio to
16.4 percent of GDP through increased investment in both the public and private sector, thanks to
estimated domestic savings of 11 percent of GDP over the period. The program should also bring about a
marked reduction in domestic and external imbalances, thereby reestablishing sustainable balance of
payments and budgetary positions and thus reducing the country's dependency on foreign assistance.
However, if during the SAC III period the country is to experience poverty reduction and enhanced
protection of vulnerable population groups, a strengthening of social and physical infrastructure, and
promotion of human resource development, it will need to have access to exceptional external financial
assistance, including debt relief.
3.     Benin's medium-term structural economic policies as described in the Policy Framework Paper are
geared to recovery of the private sector through implementation of a regulatory framework that is more
favorable to private investors, continuing reforms of the tax and financial systems, public enterprise
restructuring, and government divestiture. The Government will pursue its policy of consolidating the
State's overall financial situation by means of improved rationalization of public expenditure and increased
efficiency of public investment. Larger volumes of resources will be allocated to health and education,
while the wage bill will be contained within the above proportions. Settlement of the domestic payments
arrears verified in 1992 will be strengthened in 1995 and completed in 1996.
4.    The monetary policy adopted by the BCEAO within the UEMOA will be designed to contain
domestic prices and increase credit to the private sector while maintaining a tight credit policy vis-a-vis the
Government. The Central Bank will implement its credit policy mainly through market instruments and
reserve requirements. The regional financial market to be set up within the UEMOA context will become
operational in 1996.






Annex G
Page 2 of 10
II.    INCENTIVES TO THE PRIVATE SECTOR
2.1    Reform of the tax system
5.    The objectives of the proposed tax reforms for the period 1995-97 are to increase tax revenue as a
percentage of GDP while reducing the distortions resulting from the previous tax system. This involves
broadening the tax base, simplifying the tax system, and significantly strengthening tax administration.
6.     To achieve the above objectives, three major reforms were introduced on January 1, 1995. First, a
single business tax (taxe professionnelle unique - TPU) was created to replace the business license taxes
(la patente, la licence), the profits tax (BIC), and the VAT for companies with a turnover of less than
CFAF 40 million. Next, a single property tax (taxefonciere unique - TMV) was brought in to replace the
four existing property taxes. Lastly, the minimumn presumptive tax (bgnefice minimum forfaitaire) was
eliminated. To supplement those reforms, the graduated tax on wages and salaries (impot progressif sur
les traitements et salaires - IPTS) wiUl be revised by end-May 1995, when the number of rates will be
reduced to four, with the top rate coming down to 35 percent. A proposed revision of the general income
tax (impot general sur le revenu - IGR) for the purpose of simplifying the rate structure and reducing the
top rate is to be completed by end-September 1995.
7.    The VAT was extended to large retailers in October 1994. To complete its extension to all
branches of economic activity, it will be imposed on sugar from April onwards. The special tax on cement
will be progressively increased over the period 1995-97 so that the VAT may be introduced within the
framework of regional harmonization.
8.    It is also proposed to improve efficiency in the area of customs administration, in particular
through tighter control over declared value and of the remaining exemptions.
2.2    External trade
9.    With respect to import tariffs, the National Assembly revised the customs tariff in September
1994, reducing the number of import rates from 16 (ranging from 0 to 43 percent) to five (0, 5, 10, 15 and
20 percent). To achieve a lower and more uniform level of effective protection, it will increase the zero rate
to 5 percent for all products except rice, cotton textiles, medicines and medical consumables, and school
books by the end of June 1995. Special import tariff and VAT exemptions for raw materials and semi-
finished products will be eliminated under the 1996 Finance Act and a system of case-by-case budgetary
assistance for SMEs will be instituted.
2.3    Reform of the regulatory framework
10.   The economic growth and improved living standards targeted by the structural adjustment program
will be supported first and foremost by the development of a dynamic and efficient private sector. To
promote such development, the Government will undertake to substantially simplify and modernize the
regulatory framework over the period 1995-97. To this end, the Government, supported by the donors,
convened a Private Sector Round Table in November 1994.
11.    Starting May 1995, fixed prices will be restricted to petroleum products and bread. Ex ante
margin controls [homologation] will be required only for medications, school supplies, cement, water and
electricity. The prices of all other products will be unrestricted. The authorities aim to deregulate prices



Annex G
Page 3 of 10
completely over the long term. To this end, they will undertake a review of those procedures by end-1995,
so as to further reduce the number of products subject to price controls. Liberalization of petroleum
products is planned as part of the sector strategy.
12.   In addition, the business law framework will be simplified and modernized through the effective
application of the uniformn acts adopted under the Treaty on the Harmonization of Business Law, ratified
by Benin in December 1994.
13.   The Labor'Code, now in process of revision, will be adopted by the Govermnent by the end of May
1995 and transmitted to the National Assembly for passage by end 1995. The objective of the revised code
is to promote job creation through more flexible hiring and firing procedures. The Investment Code, also
undergoing revision, will be adopted by end-1995 and passed by end-1995. Given the tax reforms already
introduced and those in progress, this code will simplify the tax exemption system, making it automatically
accessible to all investors without the need for prior authorization. The new Procurement Code will become
operational by end-June 1995.
2.4    Public enterprise reform and government divestiture
14.   The Government will continue to implement its restructuring program for the parastatal sector
begun in 1986, and will also work to improve the monitoring and management of the government portfolio.
It will seek to complete the liquidations in progress. These efforts should enable it to reduce the State
portfolio from 32 enterprises at end-1994 to 19 in 1996, while continuing to examine a prospective
divestiture strategy for the other sectors where private management has a comparative advantage.
15.   In 1995, the Government will complete its divestiture program for eight enterprises.' Studies will
also be launched for two enterprises in the textile sector (COTEB and SITEX). Finally the Save Sugar
Company and the Onigbolo Cement Company are also targeted for privatization in 1995, subject to
agreement with the Nigerian authorities by which they are jointly owned.
Insurance
16.   After completing liberalization of the life insurance sector, the Government has decided to
liberalize the Fire accident miscellaneous Accident [incendie accidents risques divers - LARD] sector in
1995, to liquidate SONAR by end-1995, and to establish a new company with the State as minority
shareholder, to which SONAR's remaining portfolio would be transferred.
Palm oil
17.   The Govermnent will pursue its present divestiture strategy in this sector. A financial and
technical restructuring plan for SONICOG's industrial units, currently the subject of a World Bank-
financed study, will be implemented in 1995 before its capital is opened to private investors in the first
quarter of 1996.
1     Marserne du Bohicon, Complexe de noix de cajou, Usine de concentre de tomate, Complexe
agrumicole, Plateforme Amazone PPS, HMtel de la Plage, Hotel Croix du Sud, SONAR



Annex G
Page 4 of 10
Cotton
18.   In the cotton sector, the new environment created by the devaluation of the CFA franc and private
sector participation in cotton ginning and marketing necessitates a revision of the present mechanisms for
producer price determination and taxation of the sector. The Government will take steps to ensure that
producer prices reflect world prices and that private operators assume the risks related to cotton ginning
and marketing. The operational procedures for cotton purchase by private ginning companies and
SONAPRA will be defined and the price stabilization function and the role of the Stabilization Fund
reexamined. The program for converting SONAPRA into a mixed-capital company by opening its capital
to producers will be completed by June 1995.
19.   Once converted into a mixed capital company, SONAPRA will operate under ordinary company
law. The State and the producers will receive a dividend distribution from SONAPRA instead of payments
based on a surplus distributed under the old administrative rules. For the 1995/96 crop season, SONAPRA
will maintain a primary marketing monopoly for the purchase of seed-cotton from producers. The
Government envisages a substantial increase in the producer price for 1995/96 taking into account the
evolution of world prices. The National Price Commission, which includes producers, is scheduled to meet
for this purpose by end-May 1995.
20.   The- Government plans to liberalize cotton marketing over the long term. To this end, it intends to
study the possibility of opening seed-cotton marketing activities to private operators with effect from the
1996/67 crop season.
Petroleum products
21.   With respect to imports of petroleum  products, the Government has decided to apply a
restructuring strategy that will liberalize importation, transportation and distribution. This means that
authorized importers will be entitled to import petroleum products.
22.   In order to make such liberalization effective, Decree 93-35 of June 24, 1993 and its implementing
orders will be revised and adopted by mid-May. The reserve stock and minimum capital requirements for
authorized companies will be reduced. The obligation for authorized companies to have their own means of
transportation will be eliminated, as will the need for prior approval from the Hydrocarbons Director for
each delivery and the minimum transit quantity requirement. There will be no restriction on the number of
participants in the petroleum sector.
23.    The Government has also decided to sell 75 percent of SONACOP's service stations through public
bidding (station by station), on the understanding that at least 25 percent of the stations will be sold to
private Beninese operators. Bidding will be launched by end-October 1995, and the sales completed by
end-February 1996.
24.   The storage facilities will be transferred from SONACOP to the State. For their management, the
Government will conduct with the association of oil companies either a long-term lease (bail
emphyteotique] or a management transfer arrangement by end-December 1995.



Annex G
Page 5 of 10
Teleconmnunications, water and electricity
25.   Liberalization of the telecommunications sector with private operator participation will be based on
the results of a study financed by the World Bank. The Goverrnent will ensure that long-term marginal
costs are duly reflected in utility rates and that substantial efforts are made to control costs and improve
management of the water, electricity and telecommunications companies. On the basis of the results of the
audit and of studies already concluded, the necessary action plan and tariff revisions will be implemented
over the period 1995-96. If the presence of gas deposits is confirmed, these would be developed by private
investment under a production-sharing agreement. In addition, the Govermment would seek private
investment to finance the installation of gas turbines for electricity generation.
26.   To promote job creation and reintegration of government workers who have lost their jobs and of
unemployed graduates, the Government will continue to implement the programs for the creation of small
enterprises through non-govermmental organizations.  The results obtained will be helpful in the
development of an employment promotion strategy compatible and consistent with the private sector
development strategy. The Govermment will maintain the lines of credit available through the public
enterprise assistance project, and will strengthen the Subsidization and Assistance Fund for Small- and
Medium-Sized Enterprises [Fonds de Bonification et d'Assistance a la Petite et Moyenne Entreprise -
FOBAPE], the Center for the Promotion of Employment and Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises [Centre
de Promotion de l'Emploi et de la Petite et Moyenne Entreprise - CEPEPE], Campus-Benin, and the
Social Fund for the Promotion of Employment [Fonds de Solidarite Nationale pour l'Emploi - FSNE].
27.   Public enterprise investment programs will be reexamined each year in consultation with the World
Bank within the framework of preparation of the PIP.
2.5    Reform of the financial system
28.   The prudent monetary policy conducted at the UEMOA level, which aims to contain the increase in
domestic prices and, thanks to a tight policy of credit to the Government, to leave sufficient room to allow
for increased credit to the private sector, will be continued. In the area of money and credit, government
action will take place in a framework consistent with the monetary objectives of the entire UEMOA. Net
bank credit to the Government, excluding IMF disbursements, will be reduced in 1995-97, and the
expansion of credit to the economy will make it possible to sustain productive activity. The net external
assets of the banking system will continue to increase, and will thus represent the principal source of
monetary expansion. To implement its credit policy, the Central Bank will chiefly make use of market
instruments and the reserve requirements. No specific ceiling will be placed on bank lending.
29.   The Government will seek to reinforce the structure of the banking system, with a view to enabling
it to meet the increased competition between banks and other financial institutions, strengthening the rural
network credit and postal checking networks, and promoting the development of mutual credit institutions
active in financing small urban projects.
30.   Improvement of the legal framework for financial activities and the functioning of the legal system
remain among the Government's constant concerns. The recovery of overdue claims of the banks under
liquidation will continue under the stewardship of the Syndic (recovery unit), so as to enhance the resources
available for repayrnents of frozen deposits.



Annex G
Page 6 of 10
31.    The Government has also decided to conclude liquidation of the National Investment Fund [Fonds
National d'Investissement - KIW in August 1996. All claims in respect of eligible investments will be paid
before that date. In consultation with World Bank and IMF staff, the authorities will study the feasibility
of securitiang the remaining contributions to be repaid over time.
III.   IMPROVEMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICES
3.1    Strengthening of the Government's financial situation
32.   The Government's budgetary policy will play a major role in the accomplishment of the objectives
summarized above and will lead to a strengthening of the Government's fincial situation through:
-     implementation of new tax reforms;
-     continued rationalization of public expenditure;
-     increased efficiency of public investment;
-      settlement of domestic payments arrears.
33.   In implementing these measures, the Government will allocate more resources to social expenditure
and investment in priority areas and will expedite the settlement of domestic arrears, while improving the
overall budgetary situation.
34.   The overall commitment-based budget deficit is projected to decrease from 6.4 percent of GDP in
1994 to around 6 percent in 1996 and 5.5 percent in 1997. The current primary surplus is expected to
increase from 2.8 percent of GDP in 1994 to 2.9 percent in 1995 and 3.7 percent in 1997.
3.2    Rationalization of public expenditure
35.   The Government will continue its policy of allocating more resources to the key social sectors
(education and health) and limiting the share of the wage bill in total expenditure. To that end, the 1995
budget envisages limiting the wage bill to CFAF 50.4 billion, or 38 percent of total current expenditure,
and allocating CFAF 6.7 billion (7.5 percent of current expenditure) to equipment and maintenance
expenditure. The sectoral allocations for non-wage expenditure for the Ministries of Education and Health
have been set respectively at CFAF 7.3 billion (8.2 percent of the current budget) and CFAF 5.2 billion
(5.8 percent of the current budget). The sectoral allocations for the Ministries of National Education and
Health will be reviewed when the next budget is prepared, but will be maintained at least at a level that
does not reduce their share in total current expenditure. Road maintenance expenditure was increased to
CFAF 2 billion in 1995 and should rise to 2.5 billion in 1996. Budget execution will be monitored
quarterly to ensure that the allocation targets are met. While assigning priority to recruitment of the
necessary staff in the areas of education and health during the period 1995-97 to meet the increasing needs
of those sectors, total recruitment will remain lower than the number of retirements, which will make it
possible to further streamline the civil service, which had already become considerably leaner during the
period 1991-94.



Annex G
Page 7 of 10
36.    Domestic arrears verified in 1992 totaled CFAF 14 billion at end-1994, following repayment of
CFAF 9.5 billion and the cancellation of an additional CFAF 2 billion in 1993. This stock of arrears will
be eliminated over the two-year period 1995/96.
3.3   Increased efficiency of public investment
37.    The authorities will continue their efforts to enhance both the level and quality of the public
investrnent needed for infrastructure establishmnent in the areas of education, health and transportation. The
administrative procedures to be followed in the areas of disbursement and procurement, which currently
tend to slow down project execution, will be improved to facilitate investment choices that reflect the
sectoral priorities. The selection of projects for the first year of the PIP, with a total cost of over CFAF 2
billion, will be based on preliminary feasibility and rate of return studies. The 1995 investment program
provisionally amounts to CFAF 108 billion, including 97 billion for the Central Government, 14 billion for
the public enterprises, and 1 billion for the local authorities. This program continues to accord priority to
rural development (17.8 percent of the total), infrastructure (32.1 percent), water and public utilities (11.7
percent), and social services (20.6 percent). These percentages are projected to increase gradually over the
three-year PIP period (1995-97), to reach levels equivalent respectively to 19.1 percent, 31.6 percent, 12.4
percent and 21.9 percent of the total in 1997.
3.4    Administrative reform
38.    Following the reorganization of the Ministries of Finance, National Education, Health and Rural
Development, the Government undertook to complete by end-1995 action plans for reorganization of the
Ministries of Plan and Economic Restructuring; Industry and Small- and Medium Sized Enterprises;
Transportation and Public Works; Commerce and Tourism; Labor, Employment and Social Affairs; and
Energy, Water and Mines. Implementation of these action plans, which fall within the overall framework
of public administration reform, will be designed to achieve the following objectives: (a) improved
preparation and implementation of sector strategies; (b) a clearer division between political and
admrinistrative functions; (c) decentralization of decision making within ministries; (d) revitalization of the
technical directorates; (e) strengthening of human resources; and (f) improved capacities in the areas of
financial management and monitoring of project implementation.



Annex G
Page 8 of 10
BENIN: SUMMARY OF PRINCIPAL ADJUSTMENT MEASURES, 1995-97
1.      Macroeconomic framework (see Policy Framework Paper)
2       Incentives to the private sector
2.1     Tax reform
2.1.1   Introduce the single business tax (TPU) to replace the business taxes for large  January 1995
enterprises (13 percent of rental value) and the business taxes, BIC and VAT for
enterprises with a turnover of less than CFAF 40 million (26 percent of rental
value).
2.1.2   Introduce the single property tax (TFU) to replace the contribution fonciere des January 1995
proprietis bdties, contribution fonciere des proprietes non bdties, taxe
immobiliere sur les loyers, imp6t general sur le revenu foncier.
2.1.3   Eliminate the minimum presumptive tax (BMF).                           January 1995
2.1.4   Extend the VAT to large retailers                                      October 1994
2.1.5   Extend the VAT to sugar                                               April 1995
2.1.6    Revise the graduated tax on wages and salaries (IPTS) to reduce the number of June 1995
rates to four and the top rate to 35 percent.
2.1.7   Prepare a proposed revision of the general income tax (IGR).           September 1995
2.2     External trade
2.2.1    Reduce the number of import tariff rates from 16 (ranging from 0 to 43 percent) September 1994
to five (0, 5, 10, 15 and 20 percent).
2.2.2    Despite the provisions of 2.2.1, tax rice, cotton textiles, medicines and medical June 1995
consumables, and school books at the zero rate. Raise the import tariff to 5
percent for all other products currently taxed at the zero rate.
2.2.3   Eliminate special regimes allowing import tariff and VAT exemptions for raw  January 1996
materials and semi-finished products; develop a system of case-by-case
budgetary assistance for SMEs.
2.3     Regulatory franework
2.3.1    Limit price controls to bread and petroleum products, and ex ante margin  May 1995
controls to medicines, school supplies, water, electricity, and cement; all other
prices to be free. (Repeal of Arretes 94-10, 94-11, 94-12, 94-13, 94-28, and 94-
40/MCT/CATIDCP setting prices or listing products subject to ex ante margin
controls.
2.3.2   Simplify and modernize business law through effective application of the uniform  1995
acts adopted under the Treaty on the Harmonization of Business Law.
2.3.3   Adoption by the Government of the Investment Code.                    June 1995
2.3.4    Adoption by the Government of the Labor Code to facilitate more flexible hiring  May995
and firing procedures.
2.3.5   Strengthening and modernization of the legal system.                   1995
2.3.6   Adoption by the Assembly of the new Procurement Code.                 June 1995
2.4     Government divestiture
2.4.1   Liberalize the importation and distribution of petroleum products through:  May 1995
*   revision of Decree 93-35 of February 24, 1993, with reduction of the
obligatory reserve stock from 20 percent of annual sales to the equivalent of
one month's sales;
*   revision and consolidation of Arretes 93-136/ MCT/CABJIG of June 2, May995



Annex G
Page 9 of 10
1993 and 94-57/ MCT/CAB/IG of June 23, 1994, with reduction in the
minimum capital of authorized companies from CFAF 100 million to CFAF
25 million, elimination of the obligation to subrnit the annual supply plan,
elimination of the obligation for authorized companies to have their own
means of transportation, elimination of the need for approval from the
Hydrocarbons Director for each delivery, elimination of minimum transit
quantities, setting of transit charges under the new storage arrangement, and
elimination of all limitations on the number of participants in the petroleum
sector;                                                           December 1995
*   transfer of SONACOP's storage facilities to the State, for their management,
the Government will conclude with the oil companies either a long-term lease
[bail emphytiodque] or management transfer arrangement;
*   sale through bidding of 75 percent of service stations, on the understanding  February 1996
that at least 25 percent of these will be sold to private Beninese operators.
2.4.2   Convert SONAPRA into a mixed-capital company and open its capital to cotton  June 1995
producers.
2.4.3   Complete privatization of the Marserie du Bohicon, Complexe de noix de cajou, April 1995
Usine de concentre de tomate, Complexe agrumicole, Plateforme Amazone
PPS.                                                                  December 1995
2.4.4   Government divestiture from Hdtel la Plage and Hd tel Croix du Sud     December 1995
2.4.5   Liberalize the Fire/Accident/Miscellaneous Risk (LARD) insurance subsector,
liquidate SONAR, and transfer SONAR!s remaining portfolio to a new company
with the State as minority shareholder.
2.4.6   Complete SONICOG's restructuring and the government divestiturc process
through:
transfer of all of SONICOG's plantations to cooperatives              December 1995
completion of SONICOG's restructuring and implementation of government
divestiture strategy                                                  March 1996
opening of SONICOG's capital to private investors
2.4.7   COTEB and SlTEX
define the recovery and government divestiture strategies for the textile subsector  June 1995
implement the government divestiture strategy.
1995
2.4.8   Implementation of government divestiture strategy for SSS and SCO.     1995
2.4.9   Conclude liquidation of the National Investrnent Fund (FNI), pay claims in  August 1996
respect of eligible investments, and study the feasibility of securitizing the
remaining contributions to be repaid over time.
3.     Improvement of public services
3.1     Restructuring of current expenditure
3.1.1   Reduce the share of the wage bill in current expenditure:
restrict the wage bill in 1995 to CFAF 50.4 billion                   December 1994
restrict the wage bill in 1996 to CFAF 54.6 billion                   December 1995
update the civil service payroll file and create a single file with the Civil Service  December 1995
Directorate.
3.1.2   Increase the share of expenditure on supplies and maintenance:
*   increase supplies and maintenance expenditure (Articles 22, 25 and 28) to  December 1994
CFAF 6.7 billion in 1995, i.e. 7.5 percent of the current budget (BNF,
Sections 10-40 and 51-53 of the General Budget)                -



Annex G
Page 10 of 10
*   maintain equipment and maintenance expenditure (Articles 22, 25 and 28) of December 1995
at least 7.5 percent of the BNF in 1996.
3.1.3   Ensure adequate sectoral allocations:
*   increase non-wage current expenditure for education to CFAF 7.3 billion in  December 1994
1995, or 8.2 percent of the BNF
*   maintain non-wage current expenditure for education at least at 8.2 percent
of the BNF in 1996                                               December 1995
*   increase non-wage current expenditure for health to CFAF 5.2 billion in
1995, i'e. 5.8 percent of the BNF                                December 1994
*   maintain non-wage current expenditure for health at least at 5.8 percent of
the BNF in 1996
*   increase road maintenance expenditure (Road Fund) to CFAF 2.0 billion in  December 1995
1995
*   increase road maintenance expenditure (Road Fund) to CFAF 2.5 billion in  December 1994
1996.
December 1995
3.1.4   Submit to the World Bank a quarterly statement of budget execution  starting in the first
(commitments, payment orders and payments) within 45 days following the end  quarter  of
of the quarter, to ensure that the budget is executed in conformity with the  1995
budgetary allocations mentioned in 3.1.1, 3.1.2 and 3.1.3.
3.2    Public Investment Program (PIP)
3.2.1   Approve the 1995-97 PIP following consultation with World Bank staff.  February 1995
3.2.2   Approve the 1996-98 PIP following consultation with World Bank staff.  December 1995
3.2.2   Improve the selection of projects to be included in the PIP through application of
econornic and financial selection criteria and in conformity with the sectoral
strategies:
* require a feasibility study demonstrating economic and financial viability,
taking into account recurrent cost and debt-service implications, for each
new project whose total cost exceeds CFAF 2.0 billion, beginning with the
1996 PIP.
3.3     Administrative reform
3.3.1   Prepare action plans for reorganization of the Ministries of Planning and  December 1995
Economic Restructuring; Industry and Small- and Medium-Sized Enterprises;
Public Works and Transportation; Conmnerce and Tourism; Energy, Water and
Mines; and Labor, Employment and Social Affairs.
AF4
M:\4COEXCH%BENJN\LODP.DOC
April 10, 1995 11:20AM


















