CREDIT NUMBER 2727 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                   , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2727 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                         , 1995, between the REPUBLIC
OF BENIN (the Borrower) and 11VERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower, a letter dated
April 25, 1995 (hereinafter called the Letter of Development Policy) describing a
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of thz Program, and requesting assistance from the
Association in the financing of urgently needed imports required during such execution;
(B)    on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit
in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of Sche%dule 1 to the Credit
Agreement.";
(b)    Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations


﻿-2-
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.";
(c)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(d)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Boirower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of
any country which is not a member of the Association or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to
the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations."; and
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "BCEAO" means Banque Centrale des E=& eAfigde d 'Quest, the
common central bank of the Borrower and other members of the Union Mondtaire Quest
Africain, the West African Monetary Union;
(b)    "Companies Act" means the Borrower's Loi de  eits as the same
may be amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c)    "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower which runs from
January 1 to December 31 in each year;
(d)    "Francs CFA" and "FCFA" mean Franc de la Communaut6 Financi6re
Africaine, the common currency of the Borrower and other members of the Union
Mon6taire Ques Africain, the West African Monetary Union;
(e)    "Road Fund" means the Fond Routi r established by the Borrower's
Decree No. 022 of 1992;
(f)    "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision
3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M,
No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);


﻿-3-
(g)    "SONACOP" means Socidt NAignudk      e Commercialisation des
Produits P6troliers, an agency wholly owned by the Borrower and established by Decree
No. 74-320 dated December 4, 1974 for purpose of marketing petroleum products;
(h)    "SONAPRA" means Socitd Nationale pur ia Production Agricole, an
agricultural production agency wholly owned by the Borrower and established by Decree
No. 83-77 dated March 4, 1983; and
(i)    "Stabilization Fund" means the fund established by the Borrower's
Decree No.91-169 dated July 25, 1991.
ARTICLE 1
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 25,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency


﻿-4-
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1/o) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on
May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
May I and November 1 commencing November 1, 2005 and ending May 1, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2015 shall be one percent
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) BCEAO is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
(b)    Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby
entrusts BCEAO with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under
the Credit and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to
the Association in support of such applications; such withdrawal applications shall to the
extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of
not less than $2,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE M
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at
the rcquest of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)    Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comment a report on ,the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c) - Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program,
including any action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of


﻿-6-
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents, or customs
certificates, as appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has enacted a procurement code acceptable to the
Association.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
B.P. 302
Cotono' Benin
Cable address:      Telex:
MINFINANCES                MINFIN 5009 or 5289
Cotonou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INDEVAS                     248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By//{Ci1kO                       4w
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By//
Region Vic President
Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the proceeds of
the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so -gree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of:
(a)    expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or sub-
groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as
designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group         Sub-group                  Description of Items
112                 -                    Alcoholic beverages
121                 -                    Tobacco, unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122                 -                    Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                 -                    Radioactive and associated materials
667                 -                    Pearls, precious and semi-precious
stones, unworked or worked
718           718.7                      Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated for
nuclear reactors
728           728.43                     Tobacco processing machinery
897           897.3                      Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971                                      Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates)


﻿-10-
(b)    expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from
the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of
another country, expenditures in such currency for goods supplied from the territory of
such other country;
(c)    payments made prior to the date of this Agreement for expenditures,
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 5,160,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after January 31, 1995;
(d)    expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000
equivalent;
(e)    expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have
financed or agreed to finance; and
(f)    expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose
or for luxury consumption
3.     Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $2,000,000 may be permitted by the
Association upon the basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions
as the Association shall specify.
4.     No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of SDR 12,900,000 unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying oLt of the Program; (b) that the macroeconomic framework of the Borrower
continues to be consistent with the objectives of the Program; and (c) that the actions
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
5.     If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 3 above, the Association
shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are
not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part
thereof.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
Section I.    Procurement of Goods
Part A:       Genergal
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Association in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.
Part B:       International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines, subject to the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
Part C:       Other Procurement Procedures
Goods estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract may be
procured:
1.     by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement procedures
for the importation of goods, under contracts awarded in accordance with such
procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the
Association; and
2.     by other purchasers:
(a)    under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines; or
(b)    in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, under
direct contracting procedures in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the
Guidelines.


﻿-12-
Part D:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than $2,000,000 equivalent,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
2.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in paragraph 4
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
In accordance with the Program, the following measures have been taken:
1.     In order to ensure an adequate link between producer prices in its cotton industry
and world prices, the Borrower has:
(a)    transformed SONAPRA into a "jidtt- d   conomie mixte" within the
meaning of the Companies Act and offered for sale at least one third (1/3) of its capital
to cotton producers;
(b)    adopted a mechanism acceptable to the Association to ensure an
adequate link between the price of SONAPRA's seedcotton sales to private gins and the
world market price of cotton fiber;
(c)    (i) completed a review of the role of the Stabilization Fund to take
account of private sector ginning and exporting of cotton; (ii) furnished to the
Association a report of such review; (iii) exchanged views with the Association on the
review and the report thereof; and (iv) implemented the recommendations of such review
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association; and
(d)    completed a review of the feasibility of opening seedcotton marketing to
private operators and furnished to the Association a report of such review.
For the purposes of sub-paragraph (a) hereto, the term "offered for sale" means:
(i) carried out an evaluation of SONAPRA stock on the basis, inter alia, of an evaluation
of its assets and liabilities; (ii) prepared a prospectus for distribution to cotton producers;
and (iii) solicited offers for the purchase of share capital.
2.     For the purposes of liberalizing its petroleum sector, the Borrower has:
(a)    transferred the ownership of all petroleum  storage facilities from
SONACOP to itself and concluded either a long-term lease or a management transfer
arrangement acceptable to the Association for such facilities with oil import and
distribution companies;
(b)    offered for sale by tender to the private sector purchasers seventy five
percent (75%) of the service stations held by SONACOP; and
(c)    completed the sale of fifty percent (50%) of the service stations held by
SONACOP to the private sector purchasers.


﻿-14-
For the purposes of this paragraph, "completed the sale" means (i) signed a
sales contract with a purchaser; and (ii) taken all steps within its control to transfer the
assets of the service station to such purchaser.
3.     The Borrower has implemented its Fiscal Year 1995 budget in accordance with
the expenditure targets specified in paragraph 35 of the Letter of Development Policy
and adopted a budget for Fiscal Year 1996 based on the allocations specified in such
paragraph.
4.     The Borrower has approved a three year rolling public investment program for
Fiscal Year 1996 to Fiscal Year 1998 acceptable to the Association and has carried out
the applicable portion thereof as approved.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
- Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


