AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2727 BEN
Grant No. TF 020039
Agreement
for
the Administration
of Certain Funds to
be made available by the
KINGDOM OF DENMARK
in respect of the
Third Structural Adjustment Credit to the
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
Dated December21, 1995


﻿AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2727 BEN
Grant No. TF 020039
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21) 1995, between the KINGDOM OF
DENMARK (Denmark) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) to provide for the administration by the
Association of certain funds to be made available by Denmark to the Republic of
Benin (hereinafter referred to as Benin).
WHEREAS Denmark wishes, pursuant to the Cofinancing and Technical
Assistance Framework Agreement dated April 28, 1994, between Denmark, the
Association and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(hereinafter referred to as the Framework Agreement), to make available to Benin a
grant (the Danish Grant) in the amount of three million Dollars ($3,000,000), to
assist Benin in the financing of the program described in the Development Credit
Agreement (Third Structural Adjustment Credit) dated June 8, 1995, between Benin
and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement) particularly with the aim
of increasing budget share allocations for non-wage expenditures in education and
health; and
WHEREAS Denmark has requested, and the Association has agreed, to
administer the Danish Grant upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Danish Grant shall be provided by Denmark and
administered by the Association in accordance with the Framework Agreement. The
terms and conditions of the Framework Agreement shall apply to the Danish Grant
ex pt as otherwise provided herein.
Section 1.02. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Denmark, shall
utilize an account of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the Bank) at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and shall enter into such
agreement or agreements with Benin as it may deem appropriate but consistent with
the terms and conditions of the Development Credit Agreement (excluding the debt
service provisions thereof) and of this Agreement, for the purpose of assisting in the


﻿-2-
financing of the program referred to in Recital A of the preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement (the Program). Such agreements with Benin shall
provide, inter ali, that the proceeds of the Danish Grant may be withdrawn by
Benin to finance the reasonable cost of goods required by Benin during the
execution of the Program, as well as the cost of external audits referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, and that the amounts of the Danish Grant withdrawn by
Benin need not be repaid and shall bear no interest or other charges. A copy of each
such agreement shall be furnished to Denmark.
Section 1.03. The administration and enforcement of any provisions of any
agreement entered into between Benin and the Association for the purposes of this
Agreement shall be handled solely by the Association, and the Association
specifically reserves the right, at its discretion and without notice to Denmark, to
exercise, refrain from exercising or waive any rights under such Agreement or to
modify any provision thereof, provided however, that before suspending the right of
Benin to make withdrawals of funds under such Agreement, the Association shall
inform Denmark and afford Denmark a reasonable opportunity for consultation with
the Association.
Section 1.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in the discharge
of its functions under this Agreement as it exercises with respect to the
administration and management of its own affairs.
Section 1.05. The Association shall ensure that the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs in Denmark, as well as the Danish. Embassy in Cotonou, be provided with
information sufficient to enable a correct monitoring of the implementation and
performance of the Program. Thus, the Association shall ensure that the Danish
Embassy in Cotonou be invited to, and supplied with copies of the documents
necessary to participate in, any supervision missions.
Section 1.06. Denmark may, after consultations with the Association and the
Government of Benin, carry out supplementary missions related to the Project. The
Government of Benin and the Association shall be invited to participate in such
mission.


﻿-3-
Section 1.07. Denmark may, in relation to the monitoring of the Program,
employ consultants to participate on behalf of Denmark in the activities described in
Sections 1.05 and 1.06.
Section 1.08. All expenditures related to the monitoring of the Program by
Denmark as described in Sections 1.05, 1.06 and 1.07 shall be supplementary to the
Danish Grant and shall be paid for by Denmark.
ARTICLE H
Section 2.01. For the purpose of this Agreement, Denmark shall, promptly
upon signature of this Agreement, deposit the total amount of the Grant into the
Banks cash account T. (ABA 0210-8002-5) maintained with the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York (FRBNY) in New York City (hereinafter referred to as the T-
Account). When making such deposit, Denmark will instruct the FRBNY, Foreign
Department, to advise the Association's Cash Management Department as to the
amount received, thai it is from Denmark for the Third Structural Adjustment Credit
to Benin, TF No. 020039, and the date of the deposit. In addition, Denmark will
also fax a copy of such deposit instructions to the Association's Office of the Trust
Funds Administrator utilizing Fax No. (202) 522 3397.
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall disburse from the T-Account such
amounts as, from time to time, shall be needed to meet the reasonable cost of go3ds,
financed or to be financed pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement. Such
disbursements shall be effected on the basis of withdrawal applications for eligible
expenditures submitted by Benin to the Association in accordance with the
Association's normal procedures for withdrawal and disbursement.
(B)   The Association may also pay to itself out of the T-Account the cost
of any audits carried out pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) below.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. (a) The Association shall cause the Bank to maintain separate
records and accounts in respect of the funds in the T-Account disbursed pursuant to
the provisions of this Agreement. The Association will provide Denmark, within six


﻿-4-
months following the end of each of the Association's fiscal years, a management
assertion, together with an attestation from the Association's external auditors on
the satisfactory performance of the procedures and controls used by the Bank and
the Association in administering trust funds.
(b)   Upon request from  Denmark, the Association shall cause such
accounts and records to be audited and certified by the Banks external auditors and
shall furnish to Denmark the report of such audit by said auditors.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. Denmark and the Association shall exchange views from time
to time, at the request of either party, on all matters arising out of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first
above written and, subject to the provisions of this Article, shall continue in effect
until all disbursements from the Danish Grant have been made.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either party that the purposes of this
Agreement can no longer effectively or appropriately be carried out, this Agreement
may be terminated at the initiative of such party on ninety days (90 days) notice to
the other party.
Section 5.03. Upon any termination of this Agreement, unless the parties
agree on another course of action, any commitment or obligation entered into by the
Association, as Administrator on behalf of Denmark, shall be transferred to
Denmark, and any funds or other property of Denmark held hereunder by the
Association shall be returned to Denmark, whereupon the Association's
administration shall be considered terminated.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement
of the parties hereto.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement, and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to
have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand mail, telex, fax
(followed by an original copy), or cable to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such
other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For Denmark:
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Asiatisk Plads 2
DK-1448 Copenhagen
Denmark
Cable address:            Telex:                    Fax:
ETRANGERES          31292                     4531540533
Copenhagen


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:           Telex:                   Fax:
INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT)      202 473 5454
WASHINGTON, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto, have
signed this Agreement.
KINGDOM OF DENMARK
Byl, A&(6     -       A. A    Pxg,,,
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By ,/V                  1.]
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
- Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


