RESTRICTED
Report No.  P - 760
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR AN
ENGINEERING AND PRELIMINARY WORKS CREDIT
December 4, 1969



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDfJT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR AN ENGINEERING AND PRELIMINARY WORKS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $2.5 million
to the Republic of Botswana.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        As a result of explorations some 10 years ago in northeastern
Botswana important copper/nickel deposits were proven. In 1959 the
Selection Trust Group formed an exploration company, Bamangwato Conces-
sions Limited (BCL) to obtain a concession from Botswana to develop
these deposits which it is estimated would involve investment in mining
development of about $100 million. In December 1967 the United Nations
Development Programme (Special Fund), the Republic of Botswana and the
Bank signed the Plan of Operation for a feasibility study of the infra-
structure required to support the development of the copper/nickel
mining project. Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners of London were appointed
to carry out the study, and their report was submitted in December 1968.
Due to changes in the plans of BCL which will be reorganized in a mining
company with a 15% Government interest a supplementary report was made
in June 1969, which took account of lower power and water requirements
than the original study had assumed. In addition to the UNDP-financed
study, the United Kingdom financed studies of the township requirements,
including preliminary water needs, and the W,torld Health Organization
reported on the medical requirements.
3.        Considerable discussions have been held with BCL and the
Government of Botswana to ensure that the timetables for the financing
and construction of the mining project, which is BCL's concern, and
the requisite infrastructure, which is the Government's concern, have
been as far as possible coordinated. The target date for the beginning
of mining production is February 1973, and to meet this date the design
work on the infrastructure had to begin not later than November 1, 1969.
To allow this design work to proceed on schedule while financing and
other arrangements for construction of the infrastructure were being
worked out, the Government requested the Association to consider making
a separate credit for engineering and certain preliminary works. The
Government has commissioned the consultants to start design work as from
November on the basis of an agreement with BCL to guarantee payments to
the consultants for work carried out between November 1, 1969 and January
15, 1970 or the effective date of the proposed engineering credit,
should it be approved, whichever is the earlier. If the proposed
credit is approved, expenditures so incurred would be reimbursed by
the Association. Should the proposed credit not be approved, BCL has
undertaken to meet the cost of terminating the studies.



- 2 -
4.        Detailed arrangements for infrastructure and mining financing
as well as sales contracts for the copper/nickel matte to be produced
are under active consideration but will take some months to conclude.
In the meantime the Board of BCL has taken the formal decision to proceed
with the mining project and authorized additional capital expenditures of
approximately $700,000 up to the end of January 1970 to adhere to the new
target date. The main financing for the mining project itself must be
raised at about the same time as the finance for the infrastructure.
5.        It is expected that a Bank loan will be made before the end
of the fiscal year for construction of part of the infrastructure, and
that $1 million, representing part of the cost of the design of the
infrastructure so financed would be refunded out of the Bank loan.
Discussions are being held with other bilateral aid agencies who might
cover the remaining requirements for infrastructure finance.
6.        BCL will share with the Government and the Association the
risks involved in making the proposed credit in advance of final arrange-
ments for financing the mining project and the infrastructure construction.
A Reimbursement Agreement has been negotiated with BCL under which BCL
would be obligated to repay the Association one half of the amount dis-
bursed under the proposed credit, if the mining project is unduly delayed
or not carried out.
7.        Formal negotiations of both the proposed credit and the Reim-
bursement Agreement took place in Washington in September 1969. The
Government's delegation consisted of Mr. J-IC.It Hermans, Permanent
Secretary of the Ministry of Development Planning, the Attorney General,
Mr. IMbleki Mokama and Mr. H.H.B. Murray-Hudson. BCL's representatives
were Messrs. R D. Napper, Managing Director and D.W .H, Farmer, Legal
Counsel. Final approval of the Reimbursement Agreement by BCL has just
been received.
8.        The only previous credit made to Botswana by the Association
was for a road project made to the Bechuanaland Protectorate on August 3,
1964 for US $3.6 million (63-BEC). The credit has been fully disbursed.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
9.        Borrower:          Government of Botswana.
Amount:            US $2,500, 000 equivalent in various
currencies.
Purpose:           To finance the engineering and design of
power, water, transport, township and
medical facilities, together with certain
preliminary works and salaries of project
coordinating staff.



- 3 -
Amortisation:      In 50 years including a 10-year period of
grace, through semi-annual insta'llments of
1/2 of 1% from November 1, 1979 through
May 1, 1989 and of 1-1/2% from November 1,
1989 through May 1, 2019.
Service Charge:    3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - PURPOSE
10.       An appraisal report entitled "Engineering and Preliminary
Works Credit for Infrastructure Project - Botswana" (PU21a, dated
November 21, 1969) is attached. The project would provide consultants'
services to conduct surveys, complete the engineering design and prepare
the contract documents for the construction of transportation, power,
water, township and medical facilities. The consultants would also
estimate construction costs, prepare time schedules, assist with the
evaluation of bids and give such advice as is required. They would
supervise the construction of the preliminary works. These works
include site clearance, temporary offices, advance housing, temporary
water and power supplies and the provision of the services of project
coordinating staff during the design stage. The total cost is estimated
at US $2.5 million, of which $1.8 million is for design.
11.       Because of Botswana's complete dependence on external sources
of funds, not only for the entire development budget but also for about
half the recurrent budget, it is proposed that the whole of the cost of
this project should be financed by the credit.   For the same reason,
the proposed term is 50 years, instead of the more usual eight or ten
years for engineering credits, because it is expected that only the
design costs for the power and water facilities, amounting to approxi-
mately $1 million, will be refunded and incorporated in the prospective
Bank loan for these facilities.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
12.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic
of Botswana and the Association, the draft Reimbursement Agreement
between the Association and Bamangwato Concessions Limited (BCL),
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association and the
text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed Credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
13.       The draft Development Credit Agreement contains provisions
normally used for engineering projects of the Association except that
the term of the Credit would be 50 years including a grace period of
10 years.  In addition, the draft Developrmient Credit Agreement provides
that:



(a) The Borrower's obligation to repay the principal
amount of the Credit to the Association shall be
reduced to the extent that the Association shall
have received from BCL the Reimbursable Amount,
pursuant to the provisions of the Reimbursement
Agreement. (Section 2.09(a) )
(b) In the event the Association gives notice to BCL
for the payment of the Reimbursable Amount, the
Association shall decide, after consultation with
the Borrower and BCL, whether any part of the Project
shall be continued, and the Borrower is required not
to incur any further expenditure on any part of the
Project which shall not be continued other than
those necessary for its termination. (Section 4.o8)
14.        The draft Reimbursement Agreement provides among others:
(a) The obligation of BCL to reimburse the Association the
Reimbursable Amount, (50% of the principal amount of
the Credit, as determined for purposes of repayment by
the Borrower, outstanding as of the Closing Date of
the Credit) upon the occurrence of certain events
specified in Section 2.01(a) of the draft Reimbursement
Agreement.
(b) The obligation of BCL to furnish to the Association a
guarantee of the payment of the Reimbursable Amount
from a commercial bank satisfactory to the Association
(Section 2.02(a)) and the exchange of views among the
Borrower, the Association and BCL, and arbitration
between the Association and BCL (Article VII).
PART V - COMPLIANCE IWJITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
15.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
16.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the following
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Washington, D.C.
December 4, 1969



