CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 172 BT
Development Credit
Agreement
(Shashi Infrastructure Engineering and
Preliminary Works Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 15, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 172 BT
Development Credit
Agreement
(Shashi Infrastructure Engineering and
Preliminary Works Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 15, 1970


﻿1rorlopment (Trebit Agrerment
AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1970, between REPUB-
Li or BOTSWANA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Associa-
tion to assist in the financing of a project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(B) part of the financing provided by the Association,
amounting to about $1,000,000 equivalent, would be re-
funded, if the Association so requests, out of any loan by
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
inent which may later be granted to the Borrower for the
construction of part of the infrastructure facilitics to be
engineered under the project;
(C) by an agreement (hereinafter called the Reimburse-
ment Agreement) of even date herewith between the Asso-
ciation and the Bamangwato Concessions Limited (herein-
after called BCL), BCL has agreed to undertakc _ ertain
obligations as provided therein; ind
(D) the Association is willing, on the basis of the fore-
going, to make a. development credit available to the Bor-
rower on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as fol-
lows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association dated January 31, 1969, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-


﻿4
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development
Credit Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions have
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Consultants" means the consultants to be employed
by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.02 (a) of
this Agreement.
(b) "Reimbursement Agreement" means the agreement
of even date herewith between the Association and BCL,
as the same may be amended from time to time by agree-
ment between the Association, BOL and the Borrower.
(c) "Notice Date" means the (late on which the Associa-
tion dispatches the notice referred to in Section 2.01 (a) of
the Reimbursement Agreement.
(d) "Reimbursable Amount" means fifty per cent (50%)
of the principal amount of the Credit, as determined for
purposes of repayment by the Borrower, outstanding as of
the Closing Date or as of such earlier date as shall be
agreed between the Borrower, the Association and BCL.
(e) "Mining Development" means the installation of
equipment and construction facilities for the mining and
metallurgical processing of about 2.16 million short tons a
year of Selibe-Pikwe ore to produce annually about 125,000
short tons of elemental sulphur and 37,000 short tons of
composite copper/nickel matte which contain about 15,800
long tons and 13,700 long tons of recoverable copper and
nickel metal respectively.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set


﻿5
forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to two million five hundred thousand dollars
($2,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, thi; Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from
time to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule
or by further agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account such amounts as shall have
been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, shall be
required to meet payments to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed under this Development Credit
Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made on account of payments for taxes imposed
by the Borrower or any of its political subdivisions on, or
in connection with the importation or supply of goods or
services financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿6
SECTIoN 2.07. Service charges .hall be payable semi-
annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and
November 1 commencing November 1, 1979 and ending May
1, 2019, each installment to and including the installment
payable on May 1, 1989 to be one-half of one per cent
('/2 of 1o) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1%o) of such
principal amount.
SECTION 2.09. (a) The Borrower's obligation to repay
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account shall be reduced to the extent that the
Association shall have received from BCL the Reimbursa-
ble Amount pursuant to the provisions of the Reimburse-
ment Agreement.
(b) Except as otherwise agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, any reduction referred to in sub-sec-
tion (a) hereof shall be applied pro rata to the several
installments of the principal amount of the Credit.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Agree-
ment to expenditures on the Project, described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,


﻿7
published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance
with such other procedures supplementary thereto as are
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, and
(ii) contracts for the procurement of goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be sub-
ject to the prior approval of the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause the same to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering, admin-
istrative and financial practices, and shall provide, prompt-
ly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 4.02. (a) In carrying out the Project, the Bor-
rower shall employ competent and experienced Consultants
acceptable to the Association to an extent, and under such
contracts and terms of reference, as shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall not amend, assign, waive, sus-
pend or terminate any contract entered into pursuant to
subsection (a) hereof so as to substantially affect the car-
rying out of the Project, without the prior agreement of
the Association and the prior consultation with BCL.
(c) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with the Con-
sultants in the performance of their services for the Project
and make available to them all information relevant to
the Project.


﻿8
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation the plans, specifications and work schedules for the
Project, documents prepared by the Consultants under the
Project and any material modifications subsequently made
therein, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall maintain records ade-
quate to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in
the Project, to record the progress of the Project (includ-
ing the cost thereof) and to reflect, in accordance with con-
sistently maintained soundi accounting practices, the opera-
tions, administration and financial condition of any depart-
ment or agency of the Borrower responsible for the carry-
ing out of the Project or any part thereof and shall enable
the Association's representatives to inspect the Project,
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents.
SECTION 4.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower
and the Association shall from time to time at the request
of either party, exchange views through their representa-
tives with regard to the performance by the Borrower of
its obligations under this Development Credit Agreement,
the administration, operations and financial condition of
any department or agency of the Borrower responsible for
the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest concerning: the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit, the goods and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds, the Project, and the administration, operations and
financial condition of any department or agency of the


﻿9
Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the Project
or any part thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit or the maintenance of the service 'thereof or the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this
Development Credit Agreement. On the part of the Bor-
rower, such information shall include information with
respect to financial and economic conditions in the terri-
tories of the Borrower and the international balance of
payments position of the Borrower.
(d) The Borrower shall from time to time exchange
views with BCL in respect to the progress of the Project
and matters of common interest relating to the Mining
Development and shall furnish to BOL such information
as BOL shall reasonably request in respect thereof.
(e) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
cause to be insured, the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and
other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation,
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair
such goods.
SECTION 4.07. (a) The principal of, and service charges
on, the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿10
(b) The Development Credit Agreement shall be free
from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
SECTION 4.08. (a) Within thirty days after the Notice
Date the Borrower shall consult with the Association and
BCL with respect to the termination or continuation of
any part of the Project.
(b) Within thirty days after the consultation referred to
in sub-section (a) hereof the Association shall decide
whether any part of the Project shall be continued and
shall promptly notify the Borrower and BCL of such
decision.
(c) The Borrower shall not incur any further expendi-
tures after the Notice Date on any part of the Project which
shall not be continued other than those necessary for its
orderly termination.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal
of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable to-
gether with the service charge thereon and, upon any such
declaration such principal, together with such charges shall
become due and payable immediately, anything in this De-
velopment Credit Agreement to the contrary notwith-
standing.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION V1.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development


﻿11
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions, namely:
(a) The conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Reimbursement Agreement shall have been fulfilled,
subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall have entered into the contract
or contracts referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of this
Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. The date of March 31, 1970 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.05 (b) and (c) of this Agreement shall terminate
on the date on which this Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after the date of
the Development Credit Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 1971
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Minister of Finance of th Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Private Bag No. 8
Gaborone
Botswana


﻿12
Alternative address for cables:
Finance
Gaborone
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
By /s/ CHIEF LINCIWE II
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                             in Dollar Equivalent
I. Consultants' services under Part A
(a) Design of power and
water facilities                    1,000,000
(b) Design of roads, township,
hospital and railways                 450,000
(c) Supervision of construction of
preliminary works and
other services                        250,000
II. Construction of preliminary works
under Part B
(a) Relocation                             30,000
(b) Other preliminary works               520,000
III. Salaries and other expenses
under Part C                               50,000
IV. Tnallocated                               200,000
Total        2,500,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to III shall deerease, the amount of
the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association to
Category IV.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to III shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such
Category from Category IV, subject, however, to the
requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of the cost of the items in the
other Categories.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of :
A. The provision of Consultants' services to: (i) conduct
topographical, soil and other surveys and sub-surface inves-
tigations for the design and construction of the transporta-
tion, power and water distribution and for the township
and medical facilities, (ii) complete detailed engineering
design of infrastructure facilities which includes a thermal
power station using coal to be mined at Morupule, a trans-
mission system for the power generated interconnecting
the mining complex, Selebi-Pikwe, Shashi and Francistown,
a dam on the Shashi River, trunk water mains to the mining
complex, Selebi-Pikwe and Francistown, pumping stations,
treatment plants, water supply for the Morupule coal mine,
access road, branch railway line from Serule to Selebi-
Pikwe, a township and a hospital, (iii) prepare contract
documents, specifications and construction drawings re-
quired for the construction of the infrastructure facilities,
(iv) prepare an engineer's estimate of construction costs
and a detailed time schedule for the construction of the
infrastructure facilities, (v) assist the Borrower in the eval-
uation of bids for contracts under the Project and super-
vise construction of the preliminary works ref erred to under
B hereof, (vi) render legal and other technical advice in
tariff and rates negotiations and in the preparation of
legislation as may be required.
B. The construction of the preliminary works required for
the infrastructure facilities including site clearance, tempo-
rary offices, labor camps and staff housing, the comple-
tion of exploratory drilling for water at Selebi-Pikwe, the
acquisition and placing in service of temporary power sup-
ply facilities and related equipment and the provision of
relocation of displaced residents.


﻿15
C. The provision of services of project coordinating staff
during the design stage.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1970.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procedures for Procurement
1. With respect to any contract involving an amount of
$30,000 equivalent or more, the following procedures shall
apply:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall submit
to the Association for approval the invitations to bid, speci-
fications and all other tender documents, together with a
description of advertising procedures.
(b) After bids have been received and analyzed, the bid
analysis and recommendation for contract award, together
with the reasons for such recommendation, will be sub-
mitted by the Borrower to the Association for approval
prior to the contract award or the issuance of a letter of
intent.
(c) If the proposed final contract differs substantially
from the terms and conditions contained in the documents
previously approved by the Association, the text of the
proposed changes will be submitted to the Association for
its review and approval prior to the execution of such con-
tract or issuance of such letter of intent.
(d) One conformed copy of any letter of intent issued
and of any contract executed under this paragraph I shall
be sent to the Association promptly upon its issuance or
execution.
II. With respect to any contract involving an amount be-
low $50,000 equivalent, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association a description of advertising and bidding pro-
codures used, the specifications and bid evaluation report
and other information as may be required by the Associa-
tion as well as one conformed copy of each such contract,
promptly after the execution of such contract and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
thereof.


