CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 172 BT
Reimbursement
Agreement
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BAMANGWATO CONCESSIONS LIMITED
DATED JANUARY 15, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 172 BT
Reimbursement
Agreement
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BAMANGWATO CONCESSIONS LIMITED
DATED JANUARY 15, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1970 between the IN-
TERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and BAMANGWATO CONCESSIONs LIMITED
(hereinafter called BOL), a company organized and regis-
tered under the laws of the Republic of Botswana (he rein-
after called Botswana).
WHEREAS (A) Botswana has requestted the Association
to assist in the financing of a project (hereinafter called
the Project) described in Schedule 2 to a development credit
agreement (hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement) of even date herewith between Botswana and
the Association and in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(B) BCL intends, provided certain conditions are ful-
filled, to undertake the mining development for which the
successful completion of the Project is required;
(C) the Association has agreed to make to Botswana a
credit for the Project in various currencies equivalent to
two million five hundred thousand United States dollars
($2,500,000) (hereinafter called the Credit), on terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that BCL agree to undertake certain
obligations as provided in this Agreement; and
(D) BCL, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with Botswana,
has agreed to undertake the obligations as hereinafter
provided;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
f ollows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the following terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "Notice Date" means the date on which the Associa-
tion dispatches the notice referred to in Section 2.01 (a)
of this Agreement.
(b) "Development Credit Agreement" means the devel-
opment credit agreement of even date herewith between
Botswana and the Association, as the same may be amended
from time to time by agreement between Botswana, the
Association and BCL.
(c) "Credit" means the development credit provided
for in the Development Credit Agreement.
(d) ''Closing Date" means the date specified in the De-
velopment Credit Agreement as of which the Association
may by notice to Botswana terminate the right of Botswana
to withdraw from the Credit Account any amount thereto-
fore unwithdrawn.
(e) "Reimbursable Amount" means fifty per cent (507 )
of the principal amount of the Credit, as determined for
purposes of repayment by Botswana, outstanding as of
the Closing Date or as of such earlier date as shall be
agreed between Botswana, the Association and BCL.
(f) "Mining Development" means the installation of
equipment and construction facilities for the mining and
metallurgical processing of about 2.16 million short tons
a year of Selibe-Pikwe ore to produce annually about
125,000 short tons of elemental sulphur and 37,000 short
tons of composite copper/nickel matte which contain about
15,800 long tons and 13,700 long tons of recoverable copper
and nickel metal respectively.


﻿5
(g) "Concession Agreement" means the deed of conces-
sion dated November 26, 1959 between the African Author-
ity for the Bamangwato Tribe and BCL as amended by
the supplemental concession dated November 15, 1967 be-
tween the Government of Botswana and BCL.
(h) "commercial bank" means the commercial bank re-
ferred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement.
(i) "Letter of Guaranty" means the Letter of Guaranty
provided for in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement.
(j) "dollars" and the sign "$" mean dollars in the cur-
rency of the United States of America.
(k) "pound sterling" and the sign "V" mean pound
sterling in the currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland.
ARTICLE II
Obligations of BCL
SECTION 2.01. (a) BCL hereby undertakes to pay to the
Association the Reimbursable Amount, in pound sterling or
such other currency as shall be agreed between the Asso-
ciation and BCL, if any one of the following events shall
have occurred and the Association shall have given notice
thereof to BCL:
(i) A decision shall have been made by the Board of
Directors of BCL not to commence the Mining
Development.
(ii) By November 30, 1970, or such later date as the
Association may determine, BCL shall not have
become a Mining Company (as defined in the Con-
cession Agreement) pursuant to the provisions of
the Concession Agreement.
(iii) By September 30, 1972, the Association shall not
have received a certificate issued by an independent


﻿6
Auditor acceptable to the Association showing that
the total amount of new expenditure for Mining
Development (or for such similar mining develop-
ment as shall be acceptable to Botswana and the
Association) after the date of this Agreement has
exceeded United States dollars twenty-five million
($25,000,000) equivalent.
(b) BCL shall pay to the Association the Reimbursable
Amount within ten days after the Reimbursable Amount
shall have been determined by the Association and notice
thereof shall have been given to BCL.
SECTION 2.02. (a) BCL shall furnish to the Association
within thirty days after the date of this Agreement a Letter
of Guaranty issued by a commercial bank satisfactory to
the Association and substantially in the form set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) The obligations of BOL under this Agreement shall
be terminated if notice of the occurrence of any one of the
following events shall have been given by the Association
to BOL prior to the Notice Date:
(i) the loan agreement for a loan from the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the Bank) for the construction of part of the infra-
structure facilities as described in Part A of Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement required for the Mining
Development shall have become effective;
(ii) if the said Bank loan is not made and alternative
financing is made available for the said infrastruc-
ture facilities (or for such similar infrastructure
facilities as shall be acceptable to Botswana and
the Association) and the Association shall have
received a certificate issued by an independent Audi-
tor acceptable to the Association showing that the
total amount of new expenditure for the Mining
Development (or for such similar mining develop-


﻿7
ment as shall be acceptable to Botswana and the
Association) after the date of this Agreement has
exceeded United States dollars twenty-five million
($25,000,000) equivalent.
SECTION 2.03. BOL shall promptly notify the Associa-
tion of any decision of its Board of Directors on Mining
Development, or of any other action of its Board of Direc-
tors, relevant to events specified in paragraphs (i) and (ii)
of Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Obligations of the Association
SECTION 3.01. Upon dispatching of the notice referred
to in Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Association
shall:
(a) furnish a copy thereof to Botswana;
(b) require Botswana to consult, within thirty days after
the Notice Date, with the Association and BOL with respect
to the termination or continuation of any part of the Proj-
ect;
(c) decide, within thirty days after the consultation re-
ferred to in subsection (b) hereof, whether any part of the
Project shall be continued and notify promptly Botswana
and BOL of such decision; and
(d) require Botswana not to incur any further expendi-
tures aftec the Notice Date on any part of the Project
which shall not be continued other than those necessary
for its orderly termination.
SECTION 3.02. The Association shall require Botswana
to exchange views with BOL from time to time in respect
of the progress of the Project and matters of common in-
terest relating to the Mining Development and to furnish
to BOL such information as BOL shall reasonably request
in respect thereof.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Exchange of Views; Information
SECTION 4.01. The Association and BCL shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the progress of the Project and matters of com-
mon interest relating to the Mining Development and each
shall furnish to the other such information as shall rea-
sonably be requested in respect thereof.
ARTICLE V
Governing Law; Failure to Exercise Rights
SECTION 5.01. This Agreement and the Letter of Guar-
anty shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of England.
SECTION 5.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to
exercise, any right, power or remedy accruing to any party
under this Agreement or the Letter of Guaranty upon any
default shall impair any such right, power or remedy or
be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in
such default; nor shall the .ction of such party in respect
of any default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect
or impair any right, power or remedy of such party in
respect of any other or subsequent default.
ARTICLE VI
Substitution for the Letter of Guaranty
SECTION 6.01. After BCL shall have become a Mining
Company (as defined in the Concession Agreement) pur-
suant to the provisions of the Concession Agreement and
after BCL shall have raised funds for the Mining Devel-
opment in amounts satisfactory to the Association, BCL
may substitute another guarantee satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for the guarantee provided for under the Letter
of Guaranty.


﻿99
ARTICLE VII
Disputes and Arbitration
SECTION 7.01. Any dispute arising in connection with
this Agreement or the Letter of Guaranty shall be finally
settled under the Rules of Conciliation and Arbitration of
the International Chamber of Commerce by one or more
arbitrators appointed in accordance with the said Rules.
The arbitration shall take place in London. The resulting
award shall be final and binding on the parties and shall be
in lieu of any other remedies.
SECTION 7.02. If, within 30 days after counterparts of
the award shall be delivered to the parties, the award shall
not be complied with, any party may enter judgment upon,
or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in any court
of competent jurisdiction against any other party, may
enforce such judgment by execution or may pursue any
other appropriate remedy against such other party for the
enforcement of the award, the provisions of this Agreement
and the Letter of Guaranty.
SECTION 7.03. Service of any notice or process in con-
nection with any proceeding under this Article VII or in
connection with any proceeding to enforce any award ren-
dered pursuant to this Article VII may be made in the
manner provided in Section 8.05 of this Agreement or in
paragraph 8 of the form of Letter of Guaranty set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The parties waive any
and all other requirements for the service of any such
notice or process.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 8.01. The rights and obligations under this
Agreement shall not be assigned or delegated in whole or
in part by the Association or BCL without the consent of
the other party.


﻿10
SECTION 8.02. This Agreement shall not become effec-
tive until:
(a) evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have
been furnished to the Association that:
(i) the execution and delivery of this Agreement on
behalf of BOL have been duly authorized or ratified;
and
(ii) the execution and delivery of the Letter of Guar-
anty on behalf of the commercial bank have been
duly authorized or ratified.
(b) the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement other than the effectiveness
of this Agreement shall have been fulfilled.
SECTION 8.03. As part of the evidence to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to Section 8.02 (a) hereof, BOL
shall furnish to the Association an opinion or opinions sat-
isfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the
Association showing:
(i) that this Agreement has been. duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, BCL and constitutes a valid and binding obliga-
tion of BOL enforceable in accordance with its
terms; and
(ii) that the Letter of Guaranty has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the commercial bank and constitutes a
valid and binding obligation of the commercial bank
enforceable in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 8.04. This Agreement shall continue in force
until the earlier of (i) the date on which the obligations of
BOL are terminated pursuant to the provisions of this
Agreement or (ii) the date on which the Reimbursable
Amount is paid to the Association pursuant to the provi-
sions of this Agreement or the Letter of Guaranty.


﻿11
SRnoON 8.05. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement shall be
in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have
been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand
or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party
to which it is required or permitted to be given or made
at such party's address specified below or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to
the party giving such notice or making such request.
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For BCL:
Bamangwato Concessions Limited
P. O. Box 376
Gaborone, Botswana
Alternative address for cables:
Cunimet
Gaborone
SECTION 8.06. Headings given to Articles of this Agree-
ment are intended for convenience of reference only and
shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.
SECTION 8.07. This Agreement and the Letter of Guar-
anty shall be duly registered by BCL in accordance with
any law which may require such registration.


﻿12
SECTION 8.08. This Agreement is executed in two origi-
nals, one for the Association and one for BOL. Fees arising
in connection with the conclusion, execution, delivery or
registration of this Agreement and Letter of Guaranty
shall be borne by BOL.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
BAMANGWATO CONcEssIoNs LIMITED
By /s/ H. J. HINVES
Executive Vice Chairman


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Letter of Guaranty
[Date]
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Sirs:
1. Whereas the International Development Association (the
Association) has agreed to make a development credit to
the Republic of Botswana (Botswana) to assist in financing
a project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement dated December , 1969, between Botswana and
the Association, but only on condition that Bamangwato
Concessions Limited (BCL) agree to undertake certain
obligations as provided in the Reimbursement Agreement
dated December , 1969, between the Association and BCL;
2. Whereas the terms of the said Reimbursement Agree-
ment and one of the conditions of effectiveness of said Re-
imbursement Agreement requires BCL to furnish the Asso-
ciation a valid and binding guarantee by a commercial
bank; and
3. Whereas BCL has agreed to furnish, and the undersigned
is willing to provide, such guarantee as hereinafter pro-
vided;
4. The undersigned [commercial bank] hereby confirms
that it holds subject to the terms and conditions of the said
Reimbursement Agreement, the principal amount of pound
sterling equivalent to United States dollars one million two
hundred fifty thousand ($1,250,000).


﻿14
5. The undersigned further confirms that it will pay to the
Association the Reimbursable Amount as defined in the said
Reimbursement Agreement, or such part thereof as has
not been paid to the Association by BOL, on notice by the
Association to the undersigned of the following:
(i) that the Association has given the notice required
in Section 2.01 (a) and (b) of the said Reimburse-
ment Agreement and that ten days have elapsed
since the giving of the notice required in Section
2.01 (b); and
(ii) the amount of the Reimbursable Amount due to be
paid to the Association and not previously received
by the Association.
6. The obligations of the undersigned under this Letter of
Guaranty shall not be discharged except by performance
and then only to the extent of such performance and shall
not be impaired by any of the following: any extension of
time, forebearance or concession given to BOL; any asser-
tion of, or failure to assert, or delay in asserting, any right,
power or remedy against BOL. The obligations of the
undersigned shall continue in force until (i) the Association
shall notify the undersigned that the guarantee has been
cancelled pursuant to the provisions of the said Reimburse-
ment Agreement, or (ii) December 31, 1972, if the Associa-
tion shall not have given the notice referred to in Para-
graph 5 hereof to the undersigned.
7. The provisions of Article VII of said Reimbursement
Agreement shall apply to this Letter of Guaranty.
8. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
to the undersigned under this Letter of Guaranty or the
said Reimbursement Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given


﻿15
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the undersigned at the under-
signed's address specified below.
[address]
Sincerely yours,
[commercial bank]


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
A. The provision of Consultants' services to: (i) conduct
topographical, soil and other surveys and sub-surface inves-
tigations for the design and construction of the transporta-
tion, power and water distribution and for the township
and medical facilities, (ii) complete detailed engineering
design of infrastructure facilities which includes a thermal
power station using coal to be mined at Morupule, a trans-
mission system for the power generated interconnecting
the mining complex, Selebi-Pikwe, Shashi and Francistown,
a dam on the Shashi River, trunk water mains to the min-
ing complex, Selebi-Pikwe and Francistown, pumping sta-
tions, treatment plants, water supply for the Morupule coal
mine, access road, branch railway line from Serule to
Selebi-Pikwe, a township and a hospital, (iii) prepare con-
tract documents, specifications and construction drawings
required for the construction of the infrastructure facili-
ties, (iv) prepare an engineer's estimate of construction
costs and a detailed time schedule for the construction of
the infrastructure facilities, (v) assist Botswana in the
evaluation of bids for contracts under the Project and
supervise construction of the preliminary works referred
to under B hereof, (vi) render legal and other technical
advice in tariff and rates negotiations and in the prepara-
tion of legislation as may be required.
B. The construction of the preliminary works required for
the infrastructure facilities including site clearance, tem-
porary offices, labor camps and staff housing, the comple-
tion of exploratory drilling for water at Selebi-Pikwe, the
acquisition and placing in service of temporary power
supply facilities and related equipment and the provision
of relocation of displaced residents.
C. The provision of services of project coordinating staff
during the design stage.
The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1970.


