Report No. PID7551
Project Name             SENEGAL-Private Investment Promotion
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   General industry and trade sector (50%);
Payment systems; securities
clearance and settlement (20%);
Telecommunications (15%); Postal services
(15%*)
Project ID               P051609
Borrower(s)              GOVT. OF SENEGAL
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
APIX
Address: 52-54 rue Mohammed V.
BP 430 Dakar. Senegal
Contact Person: Mme. Aminata Niane,
Directeur General
Tel: 221-849-0555
Fax: 221-823-9489
Email: apix@sentoo.sn
UPE
Contact Person: Mr. Aliou Faye
Tel: 221-823-3427
Email: upemefp@telecomplus.sn
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        January 16, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date      January 30, 2003
Bank Approval Date       March 27, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Senegal has sustained macroeconomic stabilization since 1994 and achieved
a steady 5 percent GDP growth p.a. for the past five years. This good
performance is yet to be reflected in significant progress towards
achieving sustainable development and poverty reduction targets embodied
in Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Shortcomings are reflected in
present social sector outcomes, notably education, but also in the
stagnation of formal sector employment at around 200,000 jobs. Recent
economic growth has a narrow based and is largely attributable to
construction and other arguably non-sustainable factors. Growth has also
yielded disappointing results in terms of income distribution. Further
challenges lie ahead. At present, the formal sector provides no net new
employment opportunities. The potential for expansion of agriculture and
fisheries is limited by insufficient water in the north and low level
civil war in the south of the country. Declining fish stocks have brought
fisheries on the verge of crisis.    In Senegal today about 200,000 people
enter the job market each year. Many end-up un(der)employed or engage in
subsistence jobs.



During the late 1990s, the Government decided to prepare a private sector
development strategy for Senegal. To this effect, with the support of the
World Bank and other donors, a participatory approach was launched. In
mid-1999, a draft strategy was presented to and endorsed by all
stakeholders. In parallel, more detailed diagnostic work was undertaken
with the technical collaboration of the World Bank. The resulting output
included studies of the investment climate, infrastructure reform,
pensions, trade policy, etc. The strategy and these studies were key
inputs to the PRSP and form the basis of the present project. The PRSP
vision for Senegal for first two decades of the twenty-first century is
based on two pillars. On the equity side, the main goal would be to
achieve the MDG quantitative targets in health and education, related to
access and inputs. Beyond the quantitative goals lie qualitative output
and outcome objectives regarding education and healthiness of the
population, which would be reflected in a workforce capable of
contributing to economic development. The wealth creation pillar
strategy, under a high case scenario, would be based on:
Continued macroeconomic stability and much improved public expenditures,
with respect to transparency, the allocation process and outcomes.
Steady private sector-based growth of 8-10 percent p.a. resulting in
increased formal sector employment.
Growth to be sustained by appropriate policies and development of certain
sectors, such as: (a) construction; (b) extractive industries, petroleum,
gold, iron ore etc.; (c) tourism; (d) export-oriented manufacturing,
especially garments, in part stimulated by AGOA; (e) trade services
sectors, in particular based on Senegal (especially the Dakar region)
becoming a Gateway to West-Africa; (f) information technology and related
value added service; and (g) SMEs, especially those involved in
subcontracting activities, services, agri-business, and artisanal
activities.
The appropriate solutions having been applied in Casamance, the region is
making positive contributions to the welfare of its people and to
agriculture growth.
Appropriate balance struck between environment impact and growth, through
improved management of fisheries, and appropriate tourism and industrial
development.
Key reforms are either underway or are in the process of being formulated
in Senegal. These initiatives are supported by the World Bank primarily
through the ongoing second Transport Sector Project, the project described
herein, the proposed Private Sector Adjustment Credit, and the proposed
Energy Sector Reform Project. The reforms and actions supported by the
project address two complementary issues. First, there are a number of
policy and institutional brakes that lead to the underperformance of the
economy. A second set of measures generally focus on promoting certain
sectors of activities that need upstream work in order to be
kick-started. In practice, the areas discussed below often incorporate an
element of both themes. Furthermore, many of the measures, for instance
pension reform, tend to be multidimensional, often encompassing both
direct and indirect effects that relate to other areas. The various
- 2 -



reforms are also mutually reinforcing and interrelated. Therefore, while
it would be possible to attain the overall goals in Senegal if the
implementation in one area is deficient, a multifaceted approach is
essential. However, stakeholders recognize that failure to adequately
address certain fundamental areas, such as the investment climate and
electricity reform, would gravely undermine the program, irrespective of
how much progress is achieved elsewhere.
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to help create the conditions to stimulate
a sustained increase in private investment in Senegal through improved
investment climate, greater private participation in economic activities,
and policty sector reform. The project is thus expected to make important
incremental contributions towards Senegal attaining the 8 percent GDP
growth called for in the Government's poverty alleviation program.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Under the project, the Bank group will provide essential financing and
technical support to help the Government of Senegal implement deep reforms
aimed at moving the country towards a higher, sustainable growth path.
The World Bank Group. notably IDA, MIGA, FIAS, the social protection team
and WBI, have been deeply involved in project preparation and have helped
bring together stakeholders. As the project is implemented, the Bank team
is expected to be called upon to act as an honest broker to help resolve
problems, should they arise. The credibility of government to see through
the reforms and the participatory process would thus be strengthened.
Government officials, the private sector and donors consider that the
World Bank has the knowledge required to provide timely advice and
technical assistance to manage the complexities of the program. Through
Bank involvement, Senegal will thus benefit from lessons learnt
elsewhere. There has been a conscious effort in the deign of the project
to avoid duplicating the initiatives of other donors. Given the relatively
high costs of the reforms that have been identified, the reform program
cannot go ahead and be implemented without substantial IDA funding.
Finally, the Bank has had relatively good experience with implementing
projects in the sector in Senegal (all final ratings of recent projects
were "satisfactory"). This project, whose design wherever possible is
output/outcome based, not only aims to replicate this past success, but
also to surpass it in terms of high developmental impact.
4. Description
The overall objective of the Government's reform program, underpinned by
the PRSP, the private sector development strategy, and other strategic
analysis, is to create the conditions to sustain high per-capita GDP
growth of at least 8 percent per-annum. The Government aims to reach this
objective through a series of important policy and sector reforms aimed at
eliminating inefficiencies and distortions that lead to misallocation of
resources, constraining Senegal's international competitiveness, and
through capacity building. The project will support these initiatives
through a series of interrelated actions aimed at stimulating private
investments, and consists of the four mutually reinforcing components
described below. The support under the Credit will be through the
financing of consulting services and studies, goods, computers and
equipment, a handful of vehicles, training and minor repairs (civil works).
- 3 -



Project Component 1 - Improving the Investment Climate
The objective of this component is to improve the investment environment,
by facilitating the policy, legal and regulatory interface, and the
dialogue process between the public and private sectors. This objective
will be achieved through judicial reform, a better business environment
and trade facilitation, enhanced capacity to regulate infrastructure and
resolve post-privatization issues, and by reactivating the public/private
consultative process. The implementation of the proposed activities will
facilitate and expedite private transactions and reduce their costs. The
following activities will be supported under this component: (a) legal and
judicial reform; (b) business environment enhancement, covering
administrative barriers and tax reform; (c) trade facilitation,
encompassing customs and the airport; (d) infrastructure regulation; and
(e) private-public consultative process.
Project Component 2 - Facilitating Private Participation and Enhancing
Competitiveness
In recent years, investment in Senegal has been concentrated in a handful
of subsectors. Foreign Investments have been mainly in infrastructure
and, to a lesser extent, mining and export activities, notably fishing.
Construction has been a leader in the formal sector together with tourism
and fisheries, while the informal sector has been providing subsidence
living opportunity for a large part of the workforce. In-spite-of the
favorable impact of these investments on Senegal's competitiveness,
exports and growth, employment in the formal private sector has largely
stagnated and the outlook for fisheries is limited. The objective of the
private participation component is to: (i) stimulate a higher level of
foreign investment in infrastructure, export-oriented firms and other
sectors and broaden private participation in economic activities; and (ii)
increase the productivity of the local private sector. This objective
will be achieved through the implementation of the following
subcomponents: (a) investment facilitation support, encompassing support
to APIX, funding of strategic infrastructure studies, and institutional
capacity building within key embassies; (b) a matching-grant facility to
improve private sector competiveness; (c) capacity building within support
institutions and private associations; and (d) support to divestiture and
oversight of public entities.
Project Component 3 - Stimulating Sector Investment and Implementing
Policy Reform
The objective of this component is to promote subsector reforms that
would: (i) directly stimulate growth and development in areas where
Senegal benefits from untapped potential; (ii) improve the situation in
other activities that affect ability of the private sector to operate
effectively and competitively; and (iii) free-up public and private
resources, which would be available to fund pro-poor private initiatives
and, indirectly, finance private investment. The implementation of the
subcomponents described below would be further reinforced by the
initiatives described in the previous two components. The implementation
of certain reforms (namely pension, edible oil and postal) would need to
be complemented by a significant amount of financial restructuring that
would be financed in part through the proposed private sector adjustment
- 4 -



credit. The following sectors and areas will be covered: (a) pensions
reform; (b) telecommunication reform and development of the information
technology sector; (c) postal reforms, covring both post and financial
services; (d) support to the development of tourism; (e) promotion of the
music industry; and (f) edible oil sector reform.
Project Component 4 - Supporting Implementation and Capacity Building
The project will, in substance, be implemented by beneficiaries. In
addition a professional project management unit (PMU) has been
established. This PMU is currently housed within APIX but under the
project will be accountable to the project steering committee. The PMU
would oversee the financial management, procurement, reporting, monitoring
and evaluation, audit, public information and related functions as well as
manage a handful of actions the coordination which will be outsourced to a
team leader (e.g. tourism). While most partner organizations have the
capabilities to manage the complex activities supported by the project,
strong complementary implementation capacity is needed to ensure high that
project objectives are met. The Credit will thus finance a team of high
caliber local professionals located at the PMU consisting of a project
manager, financial and procurement specialists, program officer, and the
related support staff. The management of the matching-grant will be
outsourced to a team of local and international consultants. This unit
will also be responsible for ensuring adequate monitoring and evaluation,
and undertaking the impact assessment of various components, preparing
quarterly progress reports, and facilitating the mid-term review and
orderly closing of the project. In addition to the above, the Credit will
also refinance US$1.99 million of PPF resources used to prepare the
project. The component will also finance the following additional
activities: (a) public information and communication campaign; (b)
strengthening UPE; (c) implementation and dissemination of the new
procurement code.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $17.00
IBRD
IDA $46.00
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY $3.00
Total Project Cost $66.00
6. Implementation
The overriding principle guiding the institutional and implementation
arrangements for the Project is to delegate the maximum feasible
operational responsibility and independence to agencies and managers
selected to implement the Project components. Overall responsibility for
the implementation and coordination of the Project will be entrusted to
the Steering Committee under the purview of the Ministry of Finance who
would be responsible for implementing the project. However, the Ministry
would delegate its oversight role to the project Steering Committee and
various Technical Committees, Working Groups and/or Task Forces.
Day-to-day project implementation will be delegated to a professional
secretariat, the PIU. To this effect, the Ministry has established and
staffed the PIU and has delegated project management to it. The PIU will
- 5-



serve as the Secretariat of the Steering Committee and will be charged
with ensuring adequate overall financial and administrative support to the
designated implementing agencies of the Project. In addition, while
responsibility for implementing the components will ultimately be the
responsibility of the appropriate stakeholder, they will be supported by
convened task forces and units which have already been established for
this purpose.
7. Sustainability
The project provides financial, technical assistance, and associated
institutional and policy support for a well-defined, time-bound process
involving permanent improvements in the policy and institutional
environment, and stimulating private investments. The irreversible nature
of these actions significantly enhances the likelihood that once
implemented they will be largely sustained. The participatory approach
and the public information campaign programmed under various activities
further enhances ownership and sustainability. Furthermore, the design of
certain components further enhance sustainability, especially in the
following areas: (1) support to APIX will be output based and declining
over time; this will reduce donor dependency and increase ownership; (2)
the matching-grant will become a revolving fund sustained by user fees;
(3) the creation of new public institutions is discouraged in favor of
autonomous private arrangements (e.g., for tourism promotion) with own
revenue generation capacity.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
In view of the ambitious goals supported by the project, particular
attention has been paid to ensuring that its design reflects not only the
Bank's experience in Senegal and Sub-Saharan Africa, but also integrates
approaches being currently pursued in other developing countries. Project
preparation significantly benefited from the inputs of various networks
and central departments, notably social protection, and the postal and
telecommunication unit, while also bringing in the expertise of the World
Bank's global product groups, including FIAS, MIGA, WBI, and the SME
department.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues    :   The project involves mainly institutional capacity
for policy reform and financial restructuring of the pension system.
There are no direct or indirect physical investments and no environmental
issue is present.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Iradj A. Alikhani
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-0345
Fax:  (202) 477-2978
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
-6-



1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop
during the week ending January 24, 2002.
-7-



